FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20120620171708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective as of June 15, 2012, the Board of Directors of SAIC, Inc. adopted amendments to the corporation's bylaws to provide that at any time the Chair of the Board is not an independent director, then the independent directors may designate an independent Lead Director. The bylaws of SAIC, Inc., as amended, are attached to this report as Exhibit 3.1 and are incorporated by reference.
 
The Annual Meeting of Stockholders of SAIC, Inc. was held on June 15, 2012. The final results of the stockholders' vote on each of the matters presented for a vote is set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective as of June 15, 2012, the Board of Directors elected John P. Jumper, the corporation's President and Chief Executive Officer, to serve as the Chair of the Board. In addition, the Board appointed Lawrence C. Nussdorf, an independent director, to serve as Lead Director.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
Section 1.01 The registered office of SAIC, Inc. (the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of the registered agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust Company.
Registered Office.
Section 1.02 The principal office for the transaction of the business of the Corporation shall be at 1710 SAIC Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102. The Board of Directors (the "Board") is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one location to another.
Principal Office.
Section 1.03 The Corporation may also have an office or offices at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices.
Section 2.01 An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors and to transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meetings.
Section 2.02
Special Meetings.
(a) Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board, or by a committee of the Board which has been duly designated by the Board and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board or in the Bylaws, include the power to call such meetings, and shall be called by the Secretary of the Corporation following the Secretary's receipt of written requests to call a meeting of stockholders (a "Special Meeting Request") from one stockholder of record owning at least ten percent (10%), or one or more stockholders of record of shares representing in the aggregate at least twenty-five percent (25%), in each case of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting, voting as a single class, and who have delivered such requests in accordance with and subject to the provisions of these Bylaws (as amended from time to time), including any limitations set forth in these Bylaws on the ability to make such a request for such a special meeting. Special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons; provided, however, that if and to the extent that any special meeting of stockholders may be called by any other person or persons specified in any provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment thereto or any certificate filed under Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("Delaware Law") (or its successor statute as in effect from time to time hereafter), then such special meeting may also be called by the person or persons, in the manner, at the times and for the purposes so specified.
(b) In determining whether Special Meeting Requests have met the requirements of this Section 2.02, multiple Special Meeting Requests will not be considered together if they relate to different items of business. Additionally, in order to be valid, all Special Meeting Requests must have been dated and delivered to the Secretary within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated Special Meeting Request. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice. A Special Meeting Request shall be signed by each stockholder, or duly authorized agent, requesting the special meeting and shall set forth: (i) a brief description of each matter of business desired to be brought before the special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the special meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these Bylaws, the language of the proposed amendment), (iii) any material interest of each stockholder and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the special meeting is being requested in the business desired to be brought before the special meeting, (iv) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of each stockholder requesting the special meeting and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the special meeting is being requested, (v) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned by each stockholder requesting the special meeting and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the
 
special meeting is being requested, and (vi) any other information that is required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice required pursuant to Section 2.07 of these Bylaws and, if the purpose of the special meeting includes the appointment or election of one or more directors to the Board, Section 3.03 of these Bylaws.
A stockholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request at any time prior to the special meeting; provided however, that if any such revocations are received by the Secretary and, as a result of such revocation, the number of un-revoked Special Meeting Requests no longer represents at least the requisite number of shares entitling the stockholders to request the calling of a special meeting pursuant to Section 2.02(a), then the Board shall have the discretion to determine whether or not to proceed with the special meeting. If none of the stockholders who submitted the Special Meeting Request appear or send a qualified representative (as defined in these Bylaws) to present the proposal(s) or business submitted by the stockholders for consideration at the special meeting, such proposal(s) or business shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation or such stockholder(s).
A Special Meeting Request shall not be valid (and the Board shall have no obligation to call a special meeting in respect of such Special Meeting Request) if it relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law.
The Board shall determine the place, if any, and fix the date and time, of any stockholder requested special meeting. The Board may submit its own proposal or proposals for consideration at a stockholder requested special meeting.
Section 2.03 All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, on such date and at such time as may from time to time be designated by the person or persons calling the respective meeting and specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Time and Place of Meetings.
Section 2.04
Notice of Meetings and Adjourned Meetings; Waivers of Notice.
(a) Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of the meeting shall be given to stockholders of the Corporation, as required by applicable law, which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Notice may be given by such delivery means (mail, telecopy, electronic or other) as the Secretary deems appropriate and in compliance with applicable law and shall be delivered to the stockholder's address as it appears on the stock transfer records of the Corporation. Unless otherwise required by Delaware Law, such notice shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Unless otherwise expressly required by Delaware Law, when a meeting is adjourned to another time or place (whether or not a quorum is present), notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
(b) Any waiver of any such notice given by the person entitled thereto, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, and such person objects at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
Section 2.05 Except as provided by Delaware Law, the holders of record of a majority in voting interest of the shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to be voted thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation or any adjournment thereof. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting or any adjournment thereof, a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat or, in the absence therefrom of all the stockholders, any officer entitled to preside at, or to act as a secretary of, such meeting may adjourn such
Quorum.
 
meeting from time to time. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Section 2.06
Voting.
(a) At each meeting of the stockholders, each stockholder shall be entitled to vote, in person or by proxy, each share or fractional share of the stock of the Corporation having voting rights on the matter in question and which shall have been held by such stockholder and registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation:
(i) on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6.05 of these Bylaws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting, or
(ii) if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then (a) at the close of business on the day before the day on which notice of the meeting shall be given or (b) if notice of the meeting shall be waived, at the close of business on the day before the day on which the meeting shall be held.
(b) Shares of its own stock belonging to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors in such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes.
(c) Any such voting rights may be exercised by the stockholder entitled thereto in person or by his or her proxy delivered to the secretary of the meeting; , that no proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date unless said proxy shall provide for a longer period. At any meeting of the stockholders all matters, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, Delaware Law, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation, or any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon, a quorum being present. The vote at any meeting of the stockholders on any question need not be by ballot, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or unless so directed by the chair of the meeting. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his or her proxy, if there be such proxy, and it shall state the number of shares voted.
provided, however
Section 2.07 Only such business (other than nominations for election to the Board, which must comply with the provisions of Section 3.03(b)) may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders as is either (1) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (2) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof), or (3) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of notice provided for in this Section 2.07 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.07. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day, nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 70 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Business at Annual Meeting (other than the Election of Directors).
A stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Corporation shall set forth: (a) as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and the text of the business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these Bylaws, the language of the proposed amendment), and (b) as to the stockholder
 
giving notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is being made, (i) the name and address of such person, (ii) (A) the class or series and number of all shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person and any affiliates or associates of such person, (B) the name of each nominee holder of shares of all stock of the Corporation owned beneficially but not of record by such person or any affiliates or associates of such person, and the number of such shares of stock of the Corporation held by each such nominee holder, (C) whether and the extent to which any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit interest or other transaction has been entered into by or on behalf of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, with respect to stock of the Corporation, and (D) whether and the extent to which any other transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock of the Corporation) has been made by or on behalf of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, the effect or intent of any of the foregoing being to mitigate loss to, or to manage risk or benefit of stock price changes for, such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, or to increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic interest of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, with respect to stock of the Corporation; (iii) a description of all agreements, arrangements, or understandings (whether written or oral) between or among such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business and any material interest of such person or any affiliates or associates of such person, in such business, including any anticipated benefit therefrom to such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person; (iv) whether the stockholder giving notice intends, or is part of a group that intends, to solicit proxies from other stockholders in support of such proposal; (v) a representation that the stockholder giving notice intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting; and (vi) any other information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies by such person with respect to the proposed business to be brought by such person before the annual meeting pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
A stockholder providing notice of business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 2.07 shall be true and correct as of the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to receive notice of the annual meeting. Such update and supplement shall be delivered to or be mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation not later than five business days after the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to receive notice of the annual meeting. Nothing contained in this Section 2.07 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act (or any successor provision of law).
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.07, unless otherwise required by law or the Board or the chair of the annual meeting determines otherwise, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present the proposed business, such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.07, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.07; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2.07 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting.
The chair of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with this Section 2.07 and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
Section 2.08 The Secretary of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in
List of Stockholders.
 
the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, as required by applicable law. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
Section 2.09 Prior to each meeting of the stockholders, one or more inspectors shall be appointed by the Board, or, if no such appointment shall have been made, such inspectors shall be appointed by the chair of the meeting, to act thereat. Each inspector so appointed shall first subscribe an oath or affirmation faithfully to execute the duties of an inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. Such inspector(s) shall take charge of the ballots at such meeting, count the ballots cast on any question and deliver a written report of the results thereof to the secretary of such meeting. The inspector(s) need not be stockholders of the Corporation. Any officer of the Corporation may be an inspector on any question other than a vote for or against his or her election to any position with the Corporation or on any other question in which he or she may be directly interested other than as a stockholder.
Inspectors.
Section 2.10 The Board may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations adopted by the Board, the chair of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chair, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the chair of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; and (c) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board or the chair of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Regulations for Conduct of Stockholders Meeting.
Section 3.01 The property, business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board, who may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders of the Corporation.
General Powers.
Section 3.02 The exact number of directors shall be fixed from time to time, within the limits specified in the Certificate of Incorporation, by resolution of the Board.
Number.
Section 3.03
Election of Directors.
(a) The directors shall be elected annually by the stockholders of the Corporation. A nominee for director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of votes cast with respect to such nominee's election, except that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in a contested election. An election is contested if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected. For election of directors, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of votes cast "for" a nominee exceeds the votes cast "against" that nominee, without counting abstentions as votes cast. If directors are to be elected by a plurality vote, stockholders may not vote against a nominee.
Voting.
(b) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a meeting of stockholders (1) by or at the direction of the Board, (2) by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (or any other duly authorized committee of the Board), or (3) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.03(b) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.03(b). In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Corporation must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal office of the Corporation not later than the close of
Nomination of Directors.
 
business on the 90th day, nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 70 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Such stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) (A) the class or series and number of all shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person and any affiliates or associates of such person, (B) the name of each nominee holder of shares of all stock of the Corporation owned beneficially but not of record by such person or any affiliates or associates of such person, and the number of such shares of stock of the Corporation held by each such nominee holder, (C) whether and the extent to which any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit interest or other transaction has been entered into by or on behalf of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, with respect to stock of the Corporation and (D) whether and the extent to which any other transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock of the Corporation) has been made by or on behalf of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, the effect or intent of any of the foregoing being to mitigate loss to, or to manage risk or benefit of stock price changes for, such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, or to increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic interest of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, with respect to stock of the Corporation; and (iv) any other information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice, and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made, (i) the name and record address of such person; (ii) (A) the class or series and number of all shares of stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such person and any affiliates or associates of such person, (B) the name of each nominee holder of shares of the Corporation owned beneficially but not of record by such person or any affiliates or associates of such person, and the number of shares of stock of the Corporation held by each such nominee holder, (C) whether and the extent to which any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit interest or other transaction has been entered into by or on behalf of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, with respect to stock of the Corporation and (D) whether and the extent to which any other transaction, agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares of stock of the Corporation) has been made by or on behalf of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, the effect or intent of any of the foregoing being to mitigate loss to, or to manage risk or benefit of stock price changes for, such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, or to increase or decrease the voting power or pecuniary or economic interest of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, with respect to stock of the Corporation; (iii) a description of all agreements, arrangements, or understandings (whether written or oral) between such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, and any proposed nominee or any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are being made by such person, and any material interest of such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person, in such nomination, including any anticipated benefit therefrom to such person, or any affiliates or associates of such person; (iv) a representation that the stockholder giving notice intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice; (v) a representation whether such stockholder intends, or is part of a group that intends, to solicit proxies from other stockholders in support of such nomination; and (vi) any other information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with the solicitation of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
 
A stockholder providing notice of any nomination proposed to be made at a meeting of stockholders shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 3.03(b) shall be true and correct as of the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to receive notice of the meeting. Such update and supplement shall be delivered to or be mailed and received by the Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation not later than five business days after the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to receive notice of such meeting.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 3.03(b) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
The chair of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure and, if the chair should so determine, the chair shall so declare to the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.03(b), unless otherwise required by applicable law or the Board or the chair of the annual meeting determines otherwise, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination, such nomination shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 3.03(b), to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
Section 3.04 Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice or notice by electronic transmission to the Board or to the Secretary of the Corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time be not specified, it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations.
Section 3.05 Unless otherwise restricted by statute, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any director or the entire Board may be removed with or without cause by the holders of two-thirds of the total voting power of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
Removal.
Section 3.06 Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy in the Board, whether because of death, resignation, disqualification, an increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, may only be filled by vote of the majority of the remaining directors, although less than a quorum. Each director so chosen to fill a vacancy shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall qualify or until such director shall resign or shall have been removed.
Vacancies.
Section 3.07 The Board shall meet as soon as practicable after each annual election of directors and notice of such first meeting shall not be required.
First Meeting.
Section 3.08 Regular meetings of the Board may be held at such times as the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday at the place where the meeting is to be held, then the meeting shall be held at the same hour and place on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday. Except as provided by applicable law, notice of regular meetings need not be given.
Regular Meetings.
Section 3.09 Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time by the Chair of the Board, by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Secretary upon the written request of at least one-third of the directors then in office. Such meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation, or at such other place or places, within or without the State of Delaware, as the person or persons calling the meeting may designate.
Special Meetings.
 
Section 3.10 The Board may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to (a) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter (other than the election or removal of directors) expressly required by Delaware Law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (b) adopting, amending or repealing any of these Bylaws. Any such committee shall keep written minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board at the next regular meeting of the Board. Any Board committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of such committee, and delegate to the subcommittee any or all of the powers of the committee.
Committees.
Section 3.11 Notice of all special meetings of the Board or a committee shall be mailed to each director, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least five (5) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be personally delivered or otherwise given by such delivery means (telecopy, electronic or other) as the Secretary deems appropriate and in compliance with applicable law, at least two (2) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Such notice may be waived by any director and any meeting shall be a legal meeting without notice having been given if all the directors shall be present thereat or if those not present shall, either before or after the meeting, waive notice of or consent to (in writing or by electronic transmission) such meeting or shall after the meeting sign the approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or be made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Notice of Meetings.
Section 3.12 The Board (or committee of the Board) may hold any of its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board (or the committee) may from time to time by resolution designate or as shall be designated by the person or persons calling the meeting or in the notice or a waiver of notice of any such meeting. Directors may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Board or a committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment pursuant to which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Place of Meeting, Etc.
Section 3.13 Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws or by Delaware Law, the presence of a majority of the total number of directors shall be required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board and the presence of a majority of the total number of directors then serving on a committee of the Board shall be required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of such committee, and all matters shall be decided at any such meeting, a quorum being present, by the affirmative votes of a majority of the directors present. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting or any adjournment thereof, a majority of directors present may adjourn such meeting from time to time. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. The directors shall act only as a Board or as a committee thereof, and the individual directors shall have no power as such.
Quorum and Manner of Acting.
Section 3.14 Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or such committee consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, as the case may be, and such written consent or electronic transmission is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Consent.
Section 3.15 The directors shall receive such compensation for their services as directors, and such additional compensation for their services as members of any committees of the Board, as may be authorized by the Board.
Compensation.
Section 3.16
Board Leadership.
(a) . The Board may elect or appoint, from among its members, a Chair of the Board and one or more Vice Chairs of the Board, who shall not be considered by virtue of holding such position officers of
Chair of the Board
 
the Corporation. The Chair of the Board, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation and of the Board. The Chair of the Board shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, all duties incident to the office of Chair of the Board and such other duties as the Board may assign to the Chair of the Board from time to time.
(b) At any time the Chair of the Board is not independent as that term is defined in the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines and any additional independence criteria established by the Board of Directors, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, the independent directors may designate from among them a Lead Director having the duties and responsibilities required by any applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange and as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Lead Director.
Section 4.01 The principal officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, one or more Presidents of various ranks, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Controller and a Treasurer, all of whom shall serve under the direction and subject to the control of the Board.
Principal Officers.
Section 4.02 Except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with Section 4.03 or 4.06, the officers of the Corporation, shall be elected annually (or at such other intervals as the Board may determine) by the Board. Each such officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation, removal or other disqualification for service.
Election.
Section 4.03 In addition to the principal officers designated in Section 4.01, the Board, the Chair of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time appoint such other officers and agents as each of them may deem necessary or advisable, including one or more Vice Presidents of various rank, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, and an Assistant Controller, each of which officers and agents shall be subject to the control of the Board and have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in these Bylaws or as the Board, Chair of the Board or Chief Executive Officer may from time to time determine. Each such officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation, removal or other disqualification for service. The Board may also delegate to any other principal officer or committee established by the Board the power to appoint any such additional officers and agents.
Additional Officers and Agents.
Section 4.04 All officers and agents of the Corporation, elected or appointed by the Board, may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by (a) resolution adopted by the Board or (b) if the officer or agent shall have been appointed by a committee of the Board or another officer duly authorized by the Board or these Bylaws, by such appointing committee or officer.
Removal.
Section 4.05 Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board, the Chair of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the Corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations.
Section 4.06 A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or other cause, may be filled in the manner prescribed in these Bylaws for regular appointments to such office.
Vacancies.
Section 4.07 Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board to the Chair of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if such officer is appointed, shall, subject to the control of the Board, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and officers of the Corporation. In the event of the death, disability or other absence of the Chair of the Board, the duties of the Chair of the Board may be performed by the Chief Executive Officer, including presiding at any meeting of the Board or the stockholders of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer may execute (in facsimile or otherwise) and deliver certificates for shares of the Corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments that the Board has authorized to be executed and delivered, except in cases where the execution and delivery thereof shall be expressly and exclusively delegated to one or more other officers or agents of the Corporation by the Board or these
Chief Executive Officer.
 
Bylaws, or where the execution and delivery thereof shall be required by applicable law to be executed and delivered by another person. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power and authority to appoint one or more Vice Presidents of various rank or other officers of the Corporation, which power shall not be exclusive of any right of the Board to elect or appoint such officers.
Section 4.08 Individuals appointed to the office of President shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, all duties incident to the office of President and such other duties as the Board or Chief Executive Officer may assign to such President from time to time. The President may execute (in facsimile or otherwise) and deliver certificates for shares of the Corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments that the Board or the Chief Executive Officer has authorized to be executed and delivered, except in cases where the execution and delivery thereof shall be expressly and exclusively delegated to one or more other officers of agents of the Corporation by the Board or these Bylaws, or where the execution and delivery thereof shall be required by applicable law to be executed and delivered by another person. Individuals appointed to the office of President Federal Business, President of another organizational unit of the Corporation or Group President shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President of the Corporation and shall have such other duties as the Board, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Corporation may assign to such officers from time to time.
President(s).
Section 4.09 Each Vice President of the Corporation shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or President, such duties as the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, any President or such other office or officers may assign to such Vice President from time to time. Vice Presidents of the Corporation may be further designated as Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents or such other similar title as the Board, the Chair of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, any President or such other officer or officers may designate.
Vice Presidents.
Section 4.10 The Secretary of the Corporation or his or her designee shall attend all meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation, the Board and committees established by the Board and shall record correctly the proceedings of such meetings in a book suitable for such purposes. The Secretary shall attest with a signature and the seal of the Corporation (in facsimile or otherwise) all stock certificates issued by the Corporation and shall keep or cause to be kept a stock ledger in which all transactions pertaining to shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Corporation shall be correctly recorded. The Secretary shall also attest with a signature and the seal of the Corporation (in facsimile or otherwise) all deeds, conveyances or other instruments requiring the seal of the Corporation. The Chair of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation and special meetings of the Board or committees established by the Board. The Secretary is authorized to issue certificates, to which the corporate seal may be affixed, attesting to the incumbency of officers of the Corporation or to actions duly taken by the stockholders of the Corporation, the Board or any committee established by the Board. The Secretary shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may assign to the Secretary from time to time. The duties of the Secretary may also be performed by any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation. The Secretary shall have the power and authority to appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries of the Corporation, which power shall not be exclusive of any right of the Board to elect or appoint such officer.
Secretary.
Section 4.11 The Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation in general shall supervise all of the financial affairs of the Corporation, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, all duties incident to the office of Chief Financial Officer and such other duties as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may assign to the Chief Financial Officer from time to time.
Chief Financial Officer.
Section 4.12 The Treasurer of the Corporation shall have the care and custody of all the funds, notes, bonds, debentures, stock and other securities of the Corporation that may come into the hands of the Treasurer, acting in such capacity. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the investment and reinvestment of funds of the Corporation in accordance with general investment policies determined from time to time by the Corporation and shall ensure that the Corporation is adequately funded at all times by arranging, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer, for the issuance of debt, equity and other forms of securities that may be necessary or appropriate. The Treasurer may endorse (in facsimile or otherwise) checks, drafts, notes, bonds, debentures and other instruments for the payment of money for deposit or
Treasurer.
 
collection when necessary or appropriate and may deposit the same to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or depositories as the Board may designate from time to time, and the Treasurer may endorse (in facsimile or otherwise) all commercial documents requiring endorsements for or on behalf of the Corporation. The Treasurer may deliver instructions to financial institutions by facsimile or otherwise. The Treasurer may execute (in facsimile or otherwise) all receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall render an account of the Treasurer's transactions to the Board or its Audit Committee as often as the Board or its Audit Committee shall require from time to time. The Treasurer shall enter regularly in the books to be kept by the Treasurer for that purpose, a full and adequate account of all monies received and paid by the Treasurer on account of the Corporation. If requested by the Board, the Treasurer shall give a bond to the Corporation for the faithful performance of the Treasurer's duties, the expenses of which bond shall be borne by the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer may assign to the Treasurer from time to time. The duties of the Treasurer may be performed by any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall have the power and authority to appoint one or more Assistant Treasurers of the Corporation, which power shall not be exclusive of any right of the Board to elect or appoint such officer.
Section 4.13 The Controller of the Corporation shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation, shall maintain adequate records of all assets, liabilities and transactions of the Corporation and shall be responsible for the design, installation and maintenance of accounting and cost control systems and procedures throughout the Corporation. The Controller also shall keep in books belonging to the Corporation full and accurate accounts of receipts of, and disbursements made by, the Corporation. The Controller shall render an account of the Controller's transactions to the Board or its Audit Committee as often as the Board or its Audit Committee shall require from time to time. The Controller shall perform, under the direction and subject to the control of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, all duties incident to the office of Controller and such other duties as the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, may assign to the Controller from time to time. The duties of the Controller may also be performed by any Assistant Controller of the Corporation. The Controller shall have the power and authority to appoint one or more Assistant Controllers of the Corporation, which power shall not be exclusive of any right of the Board to elect or appoint such officer.
Controller.
Section 5.01 Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, the Board may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances; and unless so authorized by the Board or by these Bylaws, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or in any amount.
Execution of Contracts.
Section 5.02 All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidence of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to the Corporation, shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as, from time to time, shall be determined by resolution of the Board. Each such officer, assistant, agent or attorney shall give such bond, if any, as the Board may require.
Checks, Drafts, Etc.
Section 5.03 All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board may select, or as may be selected by any officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of the Corporation to whom such power shall have been delegated by the Board. For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Corporation, the Chair of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any President, the Treasurer or any Vice President who has been authorized by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer to do so (or any other officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of the Corporation who shall from time to time be determined by the Board) may endorse, assign and deliver checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation.
Deposits.
Section 5.04 The Board (or a committee of the Board to which such power is delegated) may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of general and special bank accounts
General and Special Bank Accounts.
 
with such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board (or committee) may select or as may be selected by any officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of the Corporation to whom such power shall have been delegated by the Board. The Board may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws, as it may deem expedient.
Section 6.01
Certificates Representing Stock.
(a) Certificates (if any) representing shares of stock or any bond, debenture or other corporate securities of the Corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, and shall be numbered in the order in which they shall be issued and shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the President or a Vice President, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. Any of or all of the signatures on the certificates may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any such certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as though the person who signed such certificate, or whose facsimile signature shall have been placed thereupon, were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Form and Execution of Certificates.
(b) If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of Delaware Law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Special Designation on Certificates.
(c) Except as provided in this Section 6.01(c), no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the Corporation and canceled at the same time. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate previously issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed certificate, or the owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft, mutilation or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate; provided, however, that a new certificate or uncertificated share may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board, or the Secretary of the Corporation, it is proper so to do.
Lost Certificates.
Section 6.02 Subject to any conditions imposed by Delaware Law, the Board may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of any uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof any written notice prescribed by Delaware Law.
Uncertificated Shares.
Section 6.03 Upon compliance with provisions restricting the transfer or registration of transfer of shares of stock, if any, transfers or registrations of transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the registered holder thereof, or by the attorney of the registered holder thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary, or with a transfer clerk or a transfer agent, if any, and with respect to shares represented by certificates, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed, and with respect to uncertificated shares, upon the execution by the transferor and transferee of all transfer documents in such form as the Corporation shall reasonably require, and, with respect to all shares, upon the payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation. Whenever any shares are pledged for collateral security such fact shall be reflected on the books of the Corporation.
Transfers of Stock.
 
Section 6.04 The Board may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with these Bylaws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the stock of the Corporation. It may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer clerks or one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates for stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.
Regulations.
Section 6.05 In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. If in any case involving the determination of stockholders for any purpose other than notice of or voting at a meeting of stockholders, the Board shall not fix such a record date, the record date for determining stockholders for such purpose shall be the close of business on the day on which the Board shall adopt the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of such meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
Section 7.01 The Board shall provide a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the Corporation and words and figures showing that the Corporation was incorporated in the State of Delaware and the year of incorporation.
Seal.
Section 7.02 Whenever notice is required to be given by these Bylaws, the Certificate of Incorporation or Delaware Law, the person entitled to said notice may waive such notice (in writing or by electronic transmission), either before or after the time stated therein, and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to notice.
Waiver of Notices.
Section 7.03 The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of February in each year.
Fiscal Year.
Section 7.04 These Bylaws, or any of them, may be altered, amended or repealed, and new Bylaws may be made by the Board, by vote of a majority of the number of directors then in office as directors, acting at any meeting of the Board. No section of the Bylaws shall be adopted, repealed, altered, amended or rescinded by the stockholders of the Corporation except by the vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation.
Amendments.
Section 7.05 The Corporation engages in the practice of engineering in various jurisdictions which regulate such practice, including the State of Washington. In order to comply with the laws of such jurisdictions, including the State of Washington, all engineering decisions pertaining to any project or engineering activities in any such jurisdiction shall be made by a designated engineer licensed to practice in such jurisdiction who shall be appointed by the Board from time to time as vacancies occur.
Designation of Engineer.
 


