FILE:SAI/SAI-8K-20120224161808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2012, we entered into a letter agreement with Walter P. Havenstein relating to his retirement as the Company's Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Havenstein's retirement as CEO and his resignation as a director will be effective February 29, 2012.
The agreement provides that Mr. Havenstein will receive his normal base salary and benefits through his retirement date and a lump sum payment on his retirement date equal to his base salary prorated from the retirement date through January 31, 2013. In addition, Mr. Havenstein will be entitled to receive a cash incentive award for the fiscal year recently ended on January 31, 2012 and for the current fiscal year ending January 31, 2013 (prorated based on the length of his service during this fiscal year). The cash incentive awards will be determined based on the achievement of the pre-established performance criteria for the applicable year.
The agreement further provides that the remaining unvested portion of the restricted stock awards and stock option awards granted to Mr. Havenstein on September 21, 2009 as an inducement to join our company will become vested on his retirement date. All other equity or equity-based awards subsequently granted to him that are scheduled to vest after the retirement date will be forfeited. The vested portion of Mr. Havenstein's options will remain exercisable for 90 days following his retirement date in accordance with the provisions of his option agreements.
In consideration, Mr. Havenstein agreed that, through March 31, 2013, he will not (i) engage in or accept employment by any business in competition with us in the United States, or (ii) render services or act on behalf of any entity which provides the same or competitive products or services as we provide in the United States, or (iii) solicit any customer or teammate of ours for purposes of providing products or services in competition with us.
Finally, the agreement reaffirms Mr. Havenstein's existing confidentiality, compensation disgorgement and non-solicitation obligations and includes customary mutual non-disparagement and release of claims provisions.
A copy of the agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
February 23, 2012
Walter P. Havenstein
1710 SAIC Dr.
McLean, VA 22102
Dear Walt:
This letter memorializes the terms of your retirement from SAIC, Inc. and Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, the "Company").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you for your contributions to the Company and best wishes for your retirement. If you have any questions or would like to discuss any item outlined above please feel free to contact me directly.
 


