FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20041227093401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 22, 2004, The Northern Trust Company (the "Bank"), a subsidiary of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Registrant"), amended and restated The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan (the "TIP"). In addition, on that same date, the Registrant amended the Northern Trust Corporation Supplemental Thrift-Incentive Plan (the "Supplemental TIP") and the Northern Trust Corporation Supplemental Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "Supplemental ESOP"). The amendment and restatement of the TIP and the amendments to the Supplemental TIP and the Supplemental ESOP will become effective January 1, 2005. Copies of the amended and restated TIP, the Supplemental TIP amendment and the Supplemental ESOP amendment are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The TIP was amended and restated principally to provide for the merger of the Northern Trust Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") into the TIP. As a result of the merger, the ESOP shares will be maintained as a separate fund within TIP; participants will not be able to make contributions or transfers into the ESOP fund, but, beginning February 14, 2005, they will be able to diversify out of the ESOP fund. In addition, the amended and restated TIP will provide for both company matching contributions and profit sharing contributions in lieu of matching contributions only under the TIP. The Bank will continue to serve as trustee of the trust for the amended and restated TIP.
 
The Supplemental TIP amendment and the Supplemental ESOP amendment reflect changes that conform to the changes made to the amended and restated TIP.
 
 
On December 23, 2004, the Registrant sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that a blackout period with respect to the ESOP fund of the amended and restated TIP will be in effect beginning January 21, 2005 and ending February 13, 2005. During the blackout period, the ESOP fund of the amended and restated TIP will be frozen, and participants temporarily will be unable to obtain a distribution of their ESOP fund upon termination of employment or retirement. The Registrant provided the notice to its directors and executive officers in accordance with Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR. The Registrant received the notice required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, on December 22, 2004.
 
A copy of the Registrant's notice to its directors and executive officers is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The Northern Trust Company
Thrift-Incentive Plan
(As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005)
 
Contents
 
 
The Northern Trust Company
Thrift-Incentive Plan
(As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005)
 
Contents
 
 
The Northern Trust Company
Thrift-Incentive Plan
(As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005)
 
Contents
 
 
The Northern Trust Company
Thrift-Incentive Plan
(As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005)
 
Contents
 
 
Article I. Name of Plan
 
 
Effective April 1, 1958, The Northern Trust Company established a defined contribution profit sharing plan qualified under Internal Revenue Code section 401 (a) known as "The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan" (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"). The Plan is for the exclusive benefit of its Members and their Beneficiaries (defined below). The Plan was last restated, effective as of January 1, 2002, and has been amended from time to time since such date.
 
Effective March 1, 2002, the Plan was amended to provide that the portion of the Plan invested in shares of Company Stock) in the Northern Trust Stock Fund (including any such shares held in the Northern Trust Stock Fund as of March 1, 2002) constituted an employee stock ownership plan (the "TIP ESOP") intended to meet the applicable requirements of sections 401(a) and 4975(e)(7) of the Code and section 407(d)(6) of ERISA. Amounts transferred out of the Northern Trust Stock Fund to another Investment Fund are not considered part of the TIP ESOP following such transfer out of the Northern Trust Stock Fund.
 
Effective January 1, 2005, the Northern Trust Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "Former ESOP Plan") shall be merged with and into the Plan. Amounts transferred from the Former ESOP Plan shall be credited to a separate account under the Plan, referred to as the Former ESOP Account. No additional contributions shall be made under the Plan to such separate account. The amounts transferred from the Former ESOP Plan shall initially be invested in the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund and shall not be part of the TIP ESOP, but instead shall constitute a separate employee stock ownership plan within the meaning of Code section 4975(e)(7) and section 407(6)(d) of ERISA, referred to as the "Former ESOP". Amounts transferred out of the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund to another Investment Fund are not considered part of the Former ESOP following such transfer out of the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund.
 
The Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, except as otherwise specifically stated herein, to reflect the merger of the Former ESOP Plan into the Plan, to add a Profit Sharing Contribution component to the Plan, to revise the Matching Contribution formula, and to make various other changes to the Plan, as set forth herein.
 
 
The purpose of this Plan is to permit Eligible Employees of the Company and Participating Employers to make tax-deferred and after-tax savings and to provide the Company and Participating Employers an opportunity to contribute additional amounts on behalf of Eligible Employees for use upon the Eligible Employees' retirement, death, or other separation from service.
 
 
The provisions of this Plan apply only to Members (or Beneficiaries of Members) who are eligible to participate in the Plan on or after January 1, 2005. Except as so provided herein, any person who was covered under the Plan prior to January 1, 2005, and whose Vesting Service terminated prior to January 1, 2005, shall be entitled to receive under the Plan the rights and benefits, if any, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan (or, if applicable, the Former ESOP Plan, with respect to the benefits of such individuals that were transferred from the Former ESOP Plan to this Plan) in effect on the date his or her Vesting Service terminated.
 
Article II.
 
Definitions
 
 
The following terms shall have the meaning specified in this Article II.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any designation of the Member's Spouse as Beneficiary under the Plan shall become null and void on the date a judicial order or decree is entered dissolving the marriage of the Member and Spouse, except as otherwise provided in a qualified domestic relations order within the meaning of Code section 414(p). If a designated Beneficiary shall die before the Member, his or her interest shall terminate and, unless otherwise provided in the Member's designation, if the designation included more than one Beneficiary, such interest shall be paid in equal shares to those Beneficiaries, if any, who survive the Member. To make an effective Beneficiary designation, the Member must use the applicable paper or electronic form provided by the Plan, and any attempt by a Member to designate a
 
Beneficiary by any other means or method shall be ineffective, null and void, and shall not be recognized by the Plan. With respect to any Member whose death occurs on or after January 1, 2005, the Member's valid Beneficiary form under the Plan shall apply to all of the Member's Accounts under the Plan (including the Former ESOP Account), and any beneficiary designation form previously executed under the Former ESOP shall be null and void as of January 1, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
otherwise eligible to participate in or receive benefits under the Plan during any period in which such individual is providing services to the Company or a Participating Employer under a contract, arrangement or understanding with either such individual or with an agency or leasing organization that treats the individual as either an independent contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization, even if such individual is later determined (by judicial action or otherwise) to have been a common law employee of the Company or a Participating Employer rather than an independent contractor or an employee of such agency or leasing organization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year. The provisions of section 414(q) of the Code shall apply in determining whether an Eligible Employee is a Highly Compensated Participant. An Eligible Employee will be in the top paid group of Employees for a Plan Year if such Eligible Employee is in the top twenty percent (20%) of Employees when ranked on the basis of compensation (as defined in section 5.3(e)) paid during such Plan Year.
 
 
 
(1) as an Employee where he or she is not an Eligible Employee; or
 
(2) as an Employee of an Affiliate which has not adopted this Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company or Affiliate such timely information that the Company or Affiliate may reasonably require to establish (A) that the absence from work is for one of the reasons specified and (B) the number of days for which there was such an absence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to other applicable limitations set forth in the Plan, and notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Salary of each Participant taken into account under the Plan shall not exceed $200,000 or other applicable annual compensation limit under section 401(a)(17) of the Code, as adjusted by the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service for increases in the cost of living in accordance with Code section 401(a)(17)(B). The cost-of-living adjustment in effect for a calendar year applies to any period, not exceeding 12 months, over which Salary is determined (the "determination period") beginning in that calendar year. If a determination period consists of fewer than 12 months, the annual compensation limit will be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months in the determination period, and the denominator of which is 12.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing schedule, a Member will become fully vested in his or her Matching Contribution Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account and Former ESOP Account if the Member becomes entitled to a disability distribution under section 8.1(c), (d) or (e), dies, or reaches Normal Retirement Date while employed by the Company or an Affiliate. A Member is always fully vested in his or her After-Tax Deposit Account, Before-Tax Deposit Account, Rollover Deposit Account, ESOP Contribution Account, and Basic Contribution Account. Unless otherwise provided, the Vested Portion of a Member's balance in the Acquired Company Prior Plan Account shall be determined based on the appropriate vesting provisions in the Plan to which such balances are attributable. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in section 5.9), each Participant and Inactive Participant shall become fully vested in the balance of his or her Account. Any amounts credited to any such Account following such Change in Control shall also be fully vested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Severance Eligible Participant shall be fully vested in the balance of his or her Account. In addition, Members shall be fully vested in any cash dividends payable with respect the portion of their Account invested in the Northern Trust Stock Fund or Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund.
 
 
Article III.
 
Participation and Service
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Eligible Employee who becomes a Participant shall continue to be a Participant or Inactive Participant until he or she incurs a Break in Service, and also shall continue to be a Member thereafter for as long as he or she is entitled to receive any benefits hereunder. After receiving all benefits to which he or she is entitled hereunder, he or she shall cease to be a Member unless and until he or she thereafter becomes eligible to again become a Participant.
 
 
The following rules shall be applicable to Employees who (a) become Eligible Employees because of transfer to a status qualifying for coverage under the Plan, (b) become Inactive Participants, (c) transfer to a status not qualifying for coverage after meeting the requirements of section 3.1 but before becoming Participants, or (d) are rehired by the Company or an Affiliate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Trustee shall allocate an Employee's deposits made to satisfy the requirements of this section 3.3(d) as follows:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Employee deposit made to repay a prior distribution from the Former ESOP Plan or Former ESOP Account shall be allocated to the Employee's Former ESOP Account, and any deposit made on an after-tax basis shall be accounted for separately.
 
 
For each other reemployed Employee, his or her beginning balance in his or her Account shall be zero, and his or her previous Forfeiture, if any, shall not be restored.
 
 
An Employee shall receive credit for Vesting Service for the period commencing with the Employee's date of hire with the Company or an Affiliate and ending on the date the Employee incurs a Break in Service. Vesting Service shall be calculated in accordance with reasonable and uniform standards and policies adopted by the Company from time to time, which standards and policies shall be consistently observed subject, however, to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article IV.
 
Participant Salary Reduction Contributions
 
 
Subject to section 6.4, an Eligible Employee who meets the requirements of section 3.1 (or upon reemployment, section 3.3) may enter into a Salary Reduction Agreement, pursuant to which the Eligible Employee authorizes the Company or a Participating Employer to deduct an amount of money from the Eligible Employee's Salary and deposit it with the Trustee for investment as the Eligible Employee shall have directed as provided in section 6.3. A Salary Reduction Agreement shall be in such written, electronic or other form, as the Committee shall establish, and shall be entered into on or before such reasonable and nondiscriminatory deadline as is specified by the Committee. Subject to sections 4.3, 4.7, 4.8, and 5.3, such amount shall not exceed 40% of the Eligible Employee's Salary. The amount shall be deposited in the Eligible Employee's After-Tax Deposit Account or to his or her Before-Tax Deposit Account, or partly to each in whole percentages, as designated by the Eligible Employee. Deposits to a Participant's Before-Tax Deposit Account in a calendar year may not exceed the maximum amount permitted under Code section 402(g) for such year ($14,000 for 2005), less any other contributions made to other plans qualified under section 401(k) of the Code. Any deposits in excess of the amount permitted under Code section 402(g) shall be made to his or her After-Tax Deposit Account.
 
Amounts deposited to the Participant's Before-Tax Deposit Account pursuant to this section 4.1 shall be considered as contributions made by the Company or a Participating Employer on behalf of the Participant to the Thrift Trust under a qualified cash or deferred arrangement as defined in section 401(k)(2) of the Code so that the amounts will not be included in the Participant's income for federal income tax purposes in the year of contribution. Amounts deposited to the Participant's After-Tax Deposit Account shall be considered as deposits made by the Participant from his or her Salary which are subject to federal income tax in the year paid.
 
With authorization by the Committee, an Eligible Employee may make a rollover deposit to the Plan of a single sum distribution from a qualified plan, an employee annuity, an annuity contract, an individual retirement account, an individual retirement annuity, or an eligible governmental deferred compensation plan, as described in sections 402(c)(4), 403(a)(4), 403(b)(8), 408(d)(3) and 457(e)(16) of the Code. The amount shall be deposited in cash to the Eligible Employee's Rollover Deposit Account, and shall be initially invested in the Stable Asset Fund. The Plan will separately account for any portion of a rollover deposit that consists of after-tax employee contributions. An Eligible Employee who is not otherwise a Participant in the Plan shall be considered as a Participant solely for purposes of his or her Rollover Deposit Account. The Committee shall authorize and regulate the making of rollover deposits in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory rules.
 
An Eligible Employee who does not elect to have contributions made to the Plan under this Section 4.1 shall be considered as a Participant in the Plan solely for purposes of his or her Profit Sharing Contribution Account and Former ESOP Account, if any.
 
 
Subject to section 6.4, a Participant may change the rate of or terminate his or her Salary Reduction Contributions at any time, to be effective as of the first day of the following payroll period, by entering into a new Salary Reduction Agreement. Any new or changed rate shall comply with the requirements of section 4.1. Changes shall be subject to such deadlines and shall be in such written, electronic or other form as the Committee shall establish, and the last change that is received from the Participant prior to such deadline shall control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
distributed to Highly Compensated Participants pursuant to section 4.4 on the basis of the dollar amount of Salary Reduction Contributions made by each Highly Compensated Participant, beginning with the Highly Compensated Participant with the highest dollar amount of Salary Reduction Contributions, until the total aggregate dollar amount of such excess Salary Reduction Contributions is distributed.
 
 
The calculations, reductions and allocations required by this section 4.3 and section 4.4 shall be made by the Company and Participating Employers with respect to a Plan Year at any time prior to the close of the following Plan Year.
 
 
 
 
If a Salary Reduction Contribution made by the Company for a Highly Compensated Participant is reduced for a Plan Year pursuant to section 4.3(c), the amount so reduced shall be allocated and distributed as follows:
 
 
 
 
recharacterizations for the Plan Year and is used to allocate income to Participants' accounts. The amount to be recharacterized or distributed, as applicable, shall first be reduced by the amount of excess deferrals under Code section 402(g) previously distributed to the Participant with respect to such Plan Year, if any. Any amounts recharacterized as after-tax deposits shall remain subject to the distribution provisions of Code section 401(k).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if for any Plan Year the Salary Reduction Contribution of a Highly Compensated Participant who is also a Catch-Up Eligible Participant is to be reduced pursuant to section 4.3(c), all or a portion of the amount to be reduced shall first be recharacterized as Catch-Up Contributions, to the extent permitted by Code Section 414(v) and applicable regulations, and any amount which cannot be so recharacterized shall be allocated or distributed as described in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 4.4.
 
 
Any matching contribution that is associated with a Salary Reduction Contribution made by the Company for a Highly Compensated Participant that is reduced for a Plan Year pursuant to section 4.3(c) shall be forfeited, and shall be treated as a Forfeiture in accordance with section 5.5.
 
 
The Company and/or Participating Employers may contribute to the Thrift Trust with respect to any Plan Year a Supplemental Company Contribution in such amount as the Committee may determine. Supplemental Company Contributions may be made to the Before-Tax Deposit Accounts of Participants who are not Highly Compensated Participants only if, and to the extent that, such Supplemental Company Contributions are necessary to satisfy one of the tests contained in section 4.3(b) of the Plan. The Supplemental Company Contribution for any Plan Year shall be allocated to the Before-Tax Deposit Accounts of Participants who are not Highly Compensated Participants pro-rata based on each such Participant's Salary. Upon allocation to the Before-Tax Deposit Accounts of such Participants, the Supplemental Company Contribution shall be considered as Salary Reduction Contributions for all purposes of the Plan other than for purposes of sections 8.7 and 8.8 of the Plan and for purposes of determining the amount of Matching Contributions made on such Participant's behalf pursuant to section 5.1, and shall be subject to Treas. Reg.  1.401(k)-1(b)(5) (or any applicable successor to such regulation) and all of the provisions of the Plan regarding Salary Reduction Contributions. The Company and/or Participating Employers shall pay to the Thrift Trust any Supplemental Company Contribution with respect to a particular Plan Year within 90 days after the end of such Plan Year.
 
 
This Plan shall be administered consistent with section 414(u) of the Code. As such, (i) an Eligible Employee who has returned to work within the period required under section 414(u) of the Code after he or she is released from qualified military service shall be permitted to make Salary Reduction Contributions to the extent required to comply with such Code section and other applicable laws, and (ii) the Company and Participating Employers shall make contributions to the extent necessary to comply with such law.
 
 
A Catch-Up Eligible Participant with respect to any Plan Year shall be eligible to make Catch-Up Contributions in accordance with and subject to the limitations of section 414(v) of the Code and applicable regulations. Such Catch-Up Contributions shall not be taken into account for purposes of applying the limitations of Code sections 402(g) and 415 for such Plan Year and shall not be included in determining the amount of a Participant's Actual Deferral Percentage for such Plan Year. Catch-Up Contributions shall be deposited in a Participant's Before-Tax Deposit Account.
 
Article V.
 
Company Contributions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, an Eligible Employee or Discretionary Profit Sharing Eligible Employee who becomes entitled to a disability distribution under section 8.1(c), (d) or (e) is eligible to have the Company or Participating Employer make a Profit Sharing Contribution for any Plan Year in which the Eligible Employee or Discretionary Profit Sharing Eligible Employee continues to receive Salary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After giving effect to the foregoing sentence, if appropriate, the Company and Participating Employers shall make no contribution to the Participant's Matching Contribution Account and, as necessary, Profit Sharing Contribution Accountwhich would result in those limitations being exceeded. If any excess Annual Additions nonetheless remain in the Participant's Accounts, such excess amounts shall be subtracted first from his or her Matching Contribution Account and then, if necessary, from his or her Profit Sharing Contribution Account. The subtracted amount shall be used to reduce Company and Participating Employer contributions, as provided in section 5.5.
,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's and Participating Employers' Matching Contributions and Profit Sharing Contributions for a calendar year on behalf of a Participant shall be made no later than the time prescribed by law (with extensions) for the filing of the Company's federal income tax return for that year. All contributions shall be transmitted to the Trustee for investment as the Participant shall have directed as provided in section 6.3.
 
 
Forfeitures occurring under section 8.3 shall be held in a suspense account in the Plan and invested in the Northern Trust Collective Short Term Investment Fund or in such other short-term investment vehicle as the Committee designates for this purpose. Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 5.1 and 5.2, Forfeitures, and (where applicable) earnings thereon, shall be used to satisfy Matching Contributions and Profit Sharing Contributions, and the Company's and Participating Employers' contributions under sections 5.1 and 5.2 shall be reduced (but not below zero) accordingly.
 
 
The amount of contributions made by any corporation which is a party to this Plan shall not exceed the amount deemed to be deductible in computing the taxable income of such corporation (taking into account all contributions under the Pension Plan and all privileges and limitations of carry over and carry forward as established by law) for the purpose of computing taxes on, or measured by, income under the provisions of the Code or any other laws in effect from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To enable the Former ESOP Plan to satisfy the investment diversification requirement of Code section 401(a)(28)(B), prior to January 1, 2005 the Plan accepted transfers of cash directly from an Eligible Employee's account in the Former ESOP Plan which were made to fulfill that requirement. The transferred property was added to the Eligible Employee's ESOP Contribution Account. The Committee regulated the making of transfers in accordance with uniform and nondiscriminatory rules. An Eligible Employee who made such a transfer but who was not otherwise a Participant in the Plan was considered as a Participant solely for purposes of his or her ESOP Contribution Account.
 
Effective January 1, 2005, all of the balances in the Former ESOP Plan were transferred to this Plan and credited to a Member's Former ESOP Account. Accordingly, on or after such date, no additional amounts shall be transferred from the Former ESOP Account to the ESOP Contribution Account. A Member's Former ESOP Account shall initially be invested in the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund and thereafter may be invested in any Investment Fund offered under the Plan.
 
 
 
below zero) by the amount of any Basic Profit Sharing Contribution made pursuant to this section 5.9. Notwithstanding section 6.3(a)(ii) of the Plan, any Basic Profit Sharing Contribution made to the Plan on or after the date of a Change in Control shall be invested in accordance with the Member's most recent investment election under the Plan. As of the date of the Change in Control, the Company shall also make a true up Matching Contribution under section 5.1(a) to the Matching Contribution Account of each eligible Member. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Participant and Inactive Participant shall become fully vested in the balance of his or her Account. Any amounts credited to any such Account following such Change in Control shall also be fully vested.
 
 
(1) any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Corporation or its affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in clause (i) of paragraph (3) below; or
 
(2) The election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the recommendation or approval of two thirds of the incumbent Board of Directors of the Corporation, of the lesser of: (A) three directors; or (B) directors constituting a majority of the number of directors of the Corporation then in office, , , that directors whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Corporation will not be considered as incumbent members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for purposes of this section; or
provided
however
 
(3) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Corporation with any other company, other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof), at least 60% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Corporation or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Corporation (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Corporation or its Affiliates) representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or
 
(4) the stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Corporation of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets to an entity, at least 60% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Corporation immediately prior to such sale.
 
 
 
"Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, except that a Person shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any securities with respect to which such Person has properly filed a Form 13-G; "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and "Person" shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Corporation or any of its Affiliates, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefits plan of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Corporation.
 
Article VI.
 
Investment Funds
 
 
The Investment Committee shall designate one or more Investment Funds for the investment of Members' and Beneficiaries' Accounts, as set forth in Schedule B. At the Investment Committee's discretion, any or all of the Investment Funds may consist of one or more mutual funds or other commingled or collective investment funds selected by the Investment Committee from time to time. Such mutual funds, commingled funds or collective funds may include funds from which The Northern Trust Company receives fees for providing investment adviser, transfer agent, custodial, or other services. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, investments in a mutual fund or commingled fund may be subject to charges, fees, withdrawal or other restrictions imposed by such fund.
 
The Investment Committee may select other investment funds, in addition to or in lieu of, the Investment Funds set forth in Schedule B. Such other funds shall be included within the terms "Funds" or "Investment Funds" hereunder as if specified in Schedule B.
 
Each of the Investment Funds shall be invested without distinction between principal and income. Pending payment of costs, expenses and anticipated benefits, or acquisition of permanent investments, the Trustee may hold any portion of any of the Investment Funds in money market instruments (or in a collective investment fund or registered investment company composed primarily of such investments).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be transferred to one or more of the other Investment Funds, with the same election applying to all separate accounts included in the Account; provided, however, in no event may a Member elect to transfer amounts from another Investment Fund under the Plan into the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund.
 
Directions under this section 6.3 shall be in such written, electronic or other form as the Committee shall determine, and shall be made on or before such reasonable and nondiscriminatory deadlines as the Committee establishes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A "round-trip" transfer means a redemption or exchange out of an Investment Fund followed by a purchase or exchange into such Investment Fund.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to this section, the proceeds of the Trust's sale of such Company Stock pursuant to the Tender Offer attributable to each Member and Beneficiary who directed the tender of his or her Proportionate Interest shall be separately accounted for in the Northern Trust Stock Fund and Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund, as applicable. As soon as practicable after consummation of the sale of such Company Stock thereunder, the directing Member's or Beneficiary's interest in the Northern Trust Stock Fund and Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund, as applicable, will be debited with the proceeds of such sale, and as of the end of the Valuation Period that interest shall be transferred to the Stable Asset Fund.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee will maintain or cause to be maintained individual accounts of the interests of Members and Beneficiaries in several Investment Funds, showing separately interests resulting from the deposits of Members and from contributions made by the Company and Participating Employers on their behalf. Each Investment Fund may be invested as a single fund, however, without segregation of Fund assets to the individual accounts of Members and Beneficiaries.
 
 
Effective March 1, 2002, in accordance with an election made on or after such date by a Member or Beneficiary, any cash dividend received by the Trustee on Company Stock allocated to the Account of such Member or Beneficiary in the Northern Trust Stock Fund as the TIP ESOP as of the record date for such dividend shall be either paid to such Member or Beneficiary in cash or shall be reinvested in Company Stock, which Company Stock shall be part of the TIP ESOP. In accordance with a Member's or Beneficiary's
 
election in effect on or after January 1, 2005, any cash dividend received by the Trustee on Company Stock allocated to such Member or Beneficiary under the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund as the Former ESOP as of the record date for such dividend shall be either paid to such Member or Beneficiary in cash or shall be reinvested in Company Stock, which Company Stock shall be part of the Former ESOP. Such elections shall be in such written, electronic or other form, as the Committee shall determine. A Member or Beneficiary may make separate elections with respect to dividends payable with respect to the TIP ESOP and Former ESOP. A Member's or Beneficiary's dividend election under the Former ESOP Plan in effect immediately prior to January 1, 2005 shall remain in effect under this Plan for dividends payable with respect to such Member's or Beneficiary's allocable shares of Company Stock in the Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund, until subsequently changed by the Member or Beneficiary. Once a Member or Beneficiary has made an election either to receive a cash payment of dividends on Company Stock in the TIP ESOP and/or Former ESOP or to have such dividends reinvested in Company Stock, the election will remain in effect until it is subsequently changed by the Member or Beneficiary. A Member or Beneficiary may change the elections at any time, and the election that is in effect on the record date for any dividend paid with respect to the TIP ESOP or Former ESOP will determine whether such dividends will be paid in cash to the Member or Beneficiary or reinvested in Company Stock. If a Member or Beneficiary does not make an election with respect to his or her TIP ESOP dividends or Former ESOP dividends pursuant to this section 6.7, then (a) the dividends on Company Stock in such Member's or Beneficiary's Account in the TIP ESOP will be reinvested in Company Stock, which Company Stock shall be part of the TIP ESOP, (b) if the Member first became a participant in the Former ESOP Plan prior to January 1, 2002, the dividends payable with respect to the Former ESOP will be paid in cash to such Member or Beneficiary, and (c) if the Member first became a participant in the Former ESOP Plan on or after January 1, 2002, the dividends payable with respect to the Former ESOP will automatically be reinvested in Company Stock, which Company Stock shall be part of the Former ESOP.
 
If a Member or Beneficiary has elected to receive a cash payment of the dividends received by the Trustee on Company Stock allocated to his or her Account in accordance with this section 6.7, such payment shall be made no later than 90 days after the end of the Plan Year in which the dividend is received by the Trustee. The cash dividends that are received by the Trustee and are being held in the Plan pending the cash payment to a Member or Beneficiary pursuant to his or her election will be invested in the Northern Trust Collective Short Term Investment Fund or in such other short-term investment vehicle as the Committee designates for this purpose. Any such payment of cash dividends on shares of Company Stock shall be accounted for as if the Member or Beneficiary receiving such dividends were the direct owner of such shares of Company Stock. Any dividends to be paid in cash that are allocated to a Member's Account on the date of his or her death shall be paid to the Member's Beneficiary.
 
If a Member or Beneficiary has elected to have the dividends received by the Trustee on Company Stock allocated to his or her Account reinvested in Company Stock, in accordance with this section 6.7, such reinvestment shall occur within a reasonable period after the end of the calendar quarter in which such dividends were received by the Trustee.
 
All elections, investments and reinvestments made pursuant to this section 6.7 shall be subject to the limitations of section 6.4(a).
 
Article VII.
 
Valuation and Adjustments
 
 
As of each Valuation Date, the value of each Account shall be determined in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
 
Article VIII. Benefits
 
 
Each Member who
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall be entitled to receive a 100% vested benefit equal to the value of the sum of his or her After-Tax Deposit Account, Before-Tax Deposit Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account, Former ESOP Account, Rollover Deposit Account, ESOP Contribution Account, Basic Contribution Account, Company Matching Contribution Account and Acquired Company Prior Plan Account, adjusted as provided in section 7.1 (and reduced by any security interest held by the Plan by reason of a loan outstanding to the Member unless such loan is repaid pursuant to Section 8.9(e)) and also any Profit Sharing Contribution made to the Member for the Plan Year in which one of the events listed in (a) through (e) above occurs.
 
 
If a Member dies, his or her Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive a 100% vested benefit equal to the value of the sum of the deceased Member's After-Tax Deposit Account, Before-Tax Deposit Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account, Former ESOP Account, Rollover Deposit Account, ESOP Contribution Account, Basic Contribution Account, Matching Contribution Account, and Acquired Company Prior Plan Account (and reduced by any security interest held by the Plan by reason of a loan outstanding to the Member unless such loan is repaid pursuant to section 8.9(e)) as of the Valuation Date upon which his or her participation terminates in accordance with section 3.2, and also any Profit Sharing Contribution for the Plan Year in which his or her participation terminates as provided in section 5.4.
 
Subject to section 2.1(k), the Member may designate a different Beneficiary or Beneficiaries for all or a specific portion of the Member's Account. If the Member is married and designates someone other than his or her Spouse as Beneficiary, the Members' Spouse must consent to such designation, prior to the Member's death, in writing. Such consent must acknowledge the effect of such an election, the identity of the Beneficiary, including any class of Beneficiaries and contingent Beneficiaries, and the consent must be witnessed by a Plan representative or a notary public. The Member may not subsequently change the method of distribution elected by the Member or the designation of his Beneficiary unless his Spouse consents to the new election or designation in accordance with the requirements set forth in the preceding sentence. Any such consent shall only be effective with respect to the specific Spouse. A surviving Spouse's consent shall be irrevocable. If a married Member dies, and there is a Beneficiary designation as to which the Member's surviving Spouse has not consented as provided above, then the distribution under this section 8.2 shall be made to the Member's surviving Spouse in a lump sum.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the consent of a Member's surviving Spouse shall not be required if the Member establishes to the satisfaction of the Committee that consent may not be obtained because there is no surviving Spouse, the surviving Spouse cannot be located, or because of such other circumstances as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe by regulations.
 
 
Each Member whose service with the Company terminates for any reason, voluntary or involuntary, other than those enumerated in sections 8.1 and 8.2, shall be entitled to receive a benefit equal to the value of the sum of his or her After-Tax Deposit Account, Before-Tax Deposit Account, Rollover Deposit Account, ESOP Contribution Account, Basic Contribution Account, and the Vested Portion of his or her Matching Contribution Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account, Former ESOP Account and Acquired Company Prior Plan Account (and reduced by any security interest held by the Plan by reason of a loan outstanding to the Member unless such loan is repaid pursuant to section 8.9(e)) as of the Valuation Date upon which his or her participation terminates as provided in section 3.2. The Unvested Portion of the Member's Matching Contribution Account, Profit Sharing Account, Former ESOP Account and Acquired Company Prior Plan Account shall be forfeited at the end of the month in which the Member incurs a Break in Service. If any portion of a Member's Former ESOP Account consists of shares of Company Stock released from the suspense account under the Former ESOP, the shares released from the suspense account shall be included in the Member's Unvested Portion only after all other shares of Company Stock in the Former ESOP Account have been included in such Unvested Portion.
 
 
If a Member has no vested interest in his or her Matching Contribution Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account, Former ESOP Account or Acquired Company Prior Plan Account balance when his or her employment with the Company and all Affiliates terminates, such Member will be treated as having received a Deemed Cashout of the Member's Matching Contribution Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account, Former ESOP Account or Acquired Company Prior Plan Account balance as of the date following the date on which the Plan is notified of such employment termination, and such balance will be treated as forfeited on such date. "Deemed Cashout" means a distribution of zero dollars representing the Member's entire Matching Contribution Account, Profit Sharing Contribution Account, Former ESOP Account or Acquired Company Prior Plan Account balance. If the Member is reemployed with the Company or any Affiliate before such Member has incurred five (5) consecutive One-Year Breaks in Service, the amount forfeited will be restored to the Member's Account balance.
 
 
If a Member who is under 65 years of age is entitled to receive a benefit under section 8.1 or 8.3 and if the aggregate value of the Member's Account in the Plan is greater than $1,000 ($5,000 prior to March 28, 2005), the benefit may not be distributed to the Member without his or her written consent. Such written consent shall be made in a form deemed acceptable by the Committee. If the Member does not so consent, his or her benefit shall not be distributed until the Member requests a total distribution, attains 65 years of age, or dies, whichever occurs first. During that period of time the Member's benefit shall be treated as are the Accounts of continuing Members, except that (i) no additions to such Account may be made, and (ii) the Member may not exercise the rights granted under sections 8.7, 8.8, and, except as otherwise provided, section 8.9 of the Plan. Once the Member requests a distribution, such distribution shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable in accordance with reasonable procedures established by the Committee.
 
Distribution may commence less than thirty (30) days after the notice required under section 1.411(a)-11(c) of the Treasury regulations is given, provided that:
 
 
 
 
The Plan shall be administered in accordance with all applicable requirements of sections 401(a)(9) and 401(a)(14) of the Code, including the minimum distribution incidental death benefit requirement of Code section 401(a)(9)(G), and Treas. Reg. 1.401(a)(9)-2 through 1.401(a)(9)-9. Accordingly, the following provisions shall apply and supercede any provision of the Plan to the contrary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the limitations hereinafter in this section 8.7 provided, a Participant shall have the right to make a withdrawal by setting forth the amount he or she desires to withdraw in a notice to the Committee. Amounts withdrawn shall be paid to the Participant as soon as reasonably practicable after the Valuation Date, without interest. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) below, to make a withdrawal, the Participant must be in the service of the Company or an Affiliate when the withdrawal is made. The withdrawal election shall be in such written, electronic, or other form as the Committee shall determine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal requests under this section 8.7 shall be in such written, electronic or other form as the Committee shall determine, and shall be made on or before such reasonable and nondiscriminatory deadlines as the Committee establishes.
 
 
Upon proof satisfactory to the Committee of a hardship (as determined under paragraph (a) below), a Participant shall be permitted to withdraw vested amounts from his or her Plan Account, but only to the extent necessary to relieve a financial need (as determined under paragraph (b) below). Amounts withdrawn shall be paid to the Participant as soon as reasonably practicable after the Valuation Date, without interest. Such withdrawals shall be made from the following Accounts of a Participant in the order designated:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, the Participant's resources shall be deemed to include the assets of the Participant's Spouse and minor children that are reasonably available to the Participant.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Committee has actual knowledge that such representation is not true, the financial need standard will not be satisfied.
 
 
A Participant may withdraw from his or her Account pursuant to this section 8.8 no more than once each calendar quarter. Withdrawal requests under this section 8.8 shall be in such written, electronic or other form as the Committee shall determine, and shall be made on or before such reasonable and nondiscriminatory deadlines as the Committee establishes.
 
Amounts withdrawn pursuant to this section 8.8, shall be made only after the Participant has exhausted his or withdrawal rights under section 8.7.
 
 
 
 
 
provided, however, that no loan shall be made to a Participant if the aggregate amount of that loan and the outstanding balance of any other loan to the Participant from the Plan would exceed one-half of the total vested balance of the Participant's Account under the Plan as of the date the loan is made, excluding any vested balance in such Participant's Former ESOP Account.
 
For purposes of the limitations of this subsection (a), loans made to a Participant from a tax-qualified plan maintained by an Affiliate shall be considered as being made from the Plan, and all qualified employer plans of the Company and all Affiliates shall be treated as one plan. The minimum amount which a Participant may borrow from his or her Plan Account is $1,000 per loan, with larger amounts in additional increments of $1.00.
 
 
 
secured. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "a reasonable rate of interest" shall mean the fixed interest rate which would be charged by The Northern Trust Company for a commercial loan secured by a savings account. The applicable interest rate for a loan application shall be updated monthly and shall be the commercial loan rate in effect approximately two months before the application is submitted. The loan shall be made as of the Valuation Date and shall be disbursed as soon as practicable thereafter, and the Participant shall not be obligated to pay (nor be entitled to receive) interest on the funds from the Valuation Date to the date of disbursement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans may not be made from a Participant's Former ESOP Account. Any loan from an Account shall be charged against the Account's investment in the Investment Funds in the order designated in Schedule B. The note representing the loan (and other loans to the same Participant) shall be segregated in a separate fund held by the Trustee as a separate earmarked investment solely for the Account of the Participant. A Participant's payments to the Thrift Trust of principal and interest on a note held in such a segregated fund shall be invested, as soon as practicable, in such one or more of the Investment Funds in the same manner as deposits or contributions to each applicable Account are invested from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article IX. Distribution of Benefits
 
 
Subject to section 8.5, a benefit payable to a Participant upon a Break in Service shall be distributed in one lump sum.
 
 
A benefit payable to a Beneficiary upon the death of a Member shall be distributed in one lump sum.
 
 
A lump sum payment shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable (and under ordinary circumstances in no more than 60 days) after the Member or his or her Beneficiary is entitled to a distribution under section 8.1, 8.2, or 8.3, subject to the completion of any applicable benefit consent, claim or claim review procedures, and except as otherwise provided in section 9.7. The amount of such distribution shall be determined using the Valuation Date coincident with or immediately preceding the date as of which distribution is made to the Participant or Beneficiary.
 
 
If a Member or his or her Beneficiary could receive a Profit Sharing Contribution or true-up Matching Contribution for the Plan Year in which the Member terminates his or her participation in the Plan, then notwithstanding section 9.3, the Member or Beneficiary may elect to defer payment under that section until the Company or a Participating Employer makes the Profit Sharing Contribution or true-up Matching Contribution, or if none, until the Company announces that no such contribution will be made. Subject to section 8.5, in such case, the lump sum payment shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable (but in no event more than 60 days) after the Valuation Date immediately following that date. Until such Valuation Date, the Account of a Member or Beneficiary shall be treated in all respects as are the Accounts of continuing Participants, except that (a) no additions to such Accounts may be made and (b) the Member or Beneficiary may not exercise the rights granted under sections 8.7, 8.8, and 8.9.
 
 
A benefit normally will be distributed in cash, although the Committee may make distribution partly or wholly in kind. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the request of a Member or his or her Beneficiary (in a form acceptable to the Committee), as the case may be, distribution of the Member's or Beneficiary's interest in the Northern Trust Stock Fund or Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund shall be made in kind in full shares of Company Stock, with any balance representing a fraction of a share being paid in cash. Separate elections may be made by the Member or Beneficiary with respect to his or her interest in the Northern Trust Stock Fund and Former ESOP Northern Trust Stock Fund. Such distributions shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable after the Valuation Date as of which such benefit is determined, and all distributions with respect to any Valuation Date shall be made on the same date. Common stock of Northern Trust Corporation and other property distributed in kind shall be valued at its fair market value on the Valuation Date as of which the benefit is determined.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the value of a Member's vested Account balance is $1,000 or less ($5,000 or less for periods prior to March 28, 2005), including any vested balance in the Member's Former ESOP Account, the Committee shall direct that such amount be paid to the Member or his or her Beneficiary as soon as administratively feasible following the Member's Break in Service. This section 9.7 shall apply to any Member with an Account balance under the Plan on or after January 1, 2005.
 
Article X. Plan Administration and Committees
 
 
The Committee shall have all powers necessary to discharge its duties in administering the Plan including, but not by way of limitation, discretionary authority with respect to the following powers:
 
 
 
 
 
provided, however, that no member of the Committee shall participate in any action on any matter involving solely his or her own rights or benefits or those of his or her Spouse or other Beneficiaries, and such matters shall be determined by the other members of the Committee. The Committee may delegate any or all of its powers under this Article X. The Investment Committee shall have those powers set forth in the Thrift Trust and section 6.1 of this Plan.
 
 
The Committee shall direct the Trustee concerning all payments which shall be made out of the Thrift Trust pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. The Investment Committee shall direct the Trustee concerning investment-related matters pursuant to the provisions of the Thrift Trust and section 6.1 of the Plan. Any direction to the Trustee shall be in writing, signed by the Secretary of the relevant committee or its delegate, or given by electronic or telephonic media if acceptable to the relevant committee or its delegate and the Trustee. The Trustee shall act in a manner consistent with any such direction that is proper, made in accordance with the Plan, and not contrary to ERISA.
 
 
All rules adopted and all actions taken by the Committee or the Investment Committee shall be uniform in nature as applied to all persons similarly situated and shall not discriminate in favor of Employees who are officers, shareholders, or Highly Compensated Participants.
 
 
The Committee shall keep on file, in such form as it shall deem convenient and proper, such reports of the Thrift Trust received from the Trustee that relate to its duties hereunder. The Investment Committee shall keep on file, in such form as it shall deem convenient and proper, such reports of the Thrift Trust received from the Trustee that relate to its duties hereunder.
 
 
The Members of the Committee and the Investment Committee shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Members of the Committee and the Investment Committee shall not receive compensation for their service in connection with the Plan, but the Company shall reimburse them for all necessary expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall indemnify the Committee, the Investment Committee, and each other fiduciary who is an Employee of the Company or an Affiliate, against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses, including counsel fees, incurred by said fiduciaries, and any liability, including any amounts paid in settlement with such a fiduciary's approval, arising from the fiduciary's action or failure to act, except when the same is judicially determined to be attributable to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such fiduciary.
 
Article XI.
 
Amendment and Termination
 
 
The Company reserves the right at any time and from time to time either retroactively or prospectively:
 
 
 
provided, however, that no amendment under (a) or (b) above shall authorize or permit any part of the corpus or income of the Thrift Trust to be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of the Members and their Beneficiaries, or to deprive any of them of any funds then held for his or her Account.
 
 
The Company reserves the right at any time and from time to time to terminate the Plan in whole or in part as of any Valuation Date by action of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (or by action of the Board of Directors, if the Compensation and Benefits Committee is unavailable or unable to act for any reason). Upon partial or full termination, all affected Members who are then Employees or who have not previously forfeited their Unvested Portion shall become fully vested, and upon permanent discontinuance of contributions by the Company and Participating Employers, all Members who are then Employees or who have not previously forfeited their Unvested Portion shall become fully vested.
 
 
In the event of any merger or consolidation of the Plan with, or transfer in whole or in part of the assets and liabilities of the Thrift Trust to another trust fund held under any other plan of deferred compensation maintained or to be established for the benefit of all or some of the Members, the Plan shall be so merged or consolidated, or the assets of the Thrift Trust applicable to such Members shall be so transferred, only if-
 
 
 
 
In the event a portion of the business of the Company or any Affiliate is sold or discontinued, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (or the Board of Directors, if the Compensation and Benefits Committee is unavailable or unable to act for any reason) in its discretion may direct that all Members who are employed by the new owner of that portion of the business shall become fully vested in their Unvested Portion.
 
 
To the extent permitted under section 401(k)(10) of the Code, in the event of the termination of the Plan, there shall be distributed to each Member, or to his or her Beneficiary in the case of a deceased Member, a benefit equal to the sum of the value of the Member's Account as of the Valuation Date on which termination occurs. If such benefits shall not exhaust the assets of the Thrift Trust, any remaining assets shall be allocated to the Matching Contribution Accounts of the Members as though they were additional Company or Participating Employer contributions, and in no event shall any such assets revert to the Company or any Affiliates.
 
Article XII.
 
Extension of Plan to Affiliates
 
 
Any Affiliate which desires to become a Participating Employer under the Plan may elect, with the consent of the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (or of the Board of Directors if the Compensation and Benefits Committee is unavailable or unable to act for any reason), to become a party to the Plan and the related Thrift Trust by adopting the Plan for the benefit of its eligible Employees, effective as of the date specified in such adoption. The adoption resolution or decision may contain such specific changes and variations in Plan or Thrift Trust terms and provisions applicable to such Participating Employer and its Employees as may be acceptable to the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (or to the Board of Directors if the Compensation and Benefits Committee is unavailable or unable to act for any reason) and the Trustee. However, the sole, exclusive right of any other amendment of whatever kind or extent to the Plan is reserved in accordance with Section 11.1 of the Plan. Specific changes and variations in the Plan or Thrift Trust terms and provisions as adopted by the Participating Employer in its adoption resolution may be made in accordance with Section 11.1 of the Plan without the consent of such Participating Employer. The adoption resolution or decision shall become, as to such adopting organization and its employees, a part of this Plan as then amended or thereafter amended and the related Thrift Trust. It shall not be necessary for the adopting organization to sign or execute the original or then amended Plan and Thrift Trust. The coverage date of the Plan for any such adopting organization shall be that stated in the resolution or decision of adoption, and from and after such effective date, such adopting organization shall assume all the rights, obligations, and liabilities of an individual employer entity hereunder and under the Thrift Trust. The administrative powers and control of the Company, as provided in the Plan and Thrift Trust shall not be diminished by reason of the participation of any such adopting organization in the Plan and Thrift Trust.
 
 
Any Participating Employer may withdraw from the Plan and Thrift Trust after giving notice to the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (or to the Board of Directors if the Compensation and Benefits Committee is unavailable or unable to act for any reason), provided the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (or the Board of Directors if the Compensation and Benefits Committee is unavailable or unable to act for any reason) consents to such withdrawal. In the event of such a withdrawal, the Committee shall cause a valuation of the Thrift Trust to be made to ascertain the value of assets of each of the Investment Funds which are attributable to Members who are Employees of the terminating Participating Employer or their Beneficiaries in the case of deceased Members and shall direct the Trustee to segregate assets of each of the Investment Funds which are deemed to be so attributable, together with all loans to such Members from the Thrift Trust, and to make distribution to the Members or their Beneficiaries as if the Plan had terminated with respect to the Members or their Beneficiaries of the terminating Participating Employer.
 
In the event such withdrawal constitutes a partial termination of this Plan, only the affected Participants in that part of the Plan which is terminated shall have fully vested and nonforfeitable rights in their benefits (unless they were already fully vested prior to the partial termination). Distribution may be implemented through continuation of the Thrift Trust, or transfer to another trust fund exempt from tax under section 501 of the Code, or to a group annuity contract qualified under Code section 401, or distribution may be made as an immediate cash payment; provided, however, that such distribution is permitted pursuant to section 401(k)(10) of the Code, and provided, further, that no such action shall divert any part of such fund to any purpose other than the exclusive benefit of the Participants of such Participating Employer.
 
Article XIII.
 
Top-Heavy Provisions
 
 
The following provisions shall become effective in any Plan Year in which the Plan is determined to be a top-heavy plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article XIV.
 
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
 
The interests of Members and Beneficiaries in the Plan and the Thrift Trust shall not be subject to the claims of any creditor, any Spouse for alimony or support, or others, or to legal process, and may not be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, alienated or encumbered, except that the interests of a Member may be subject to loans from the Thrift Trust to the Member.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan shall make all payments required by a qualified domestic relations order within the meaning of Code section 414(p). The Committee shall establish a procedure to determine the qualified status of a domestic relations order and to administer distributions under a qualified order. If the qualified domestic relations order so provides, the Plan may make a distribution to an alternate payee prior to the date that a Member attains "earliest retirement age." For purposes of a qualified domestic relations order, "earliest retirement age" means the earlier of
 
 
 
An alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order shall have the right with respect to his or her interest under the Plan to (i) direct investments in accordance with Article VI of the Plan, (ii) make dividend elections under section 6.7 of the Plan, (iii) designate a Beneficiary with respect to such interest, (iv) exercise voting rights with respect to any shares of Company Stock held in his or her Account in accordance with section 6.5 of the Plan, and (v) subject to section 9.7, defer distribution of such interest in accordance with sections 8.5 and 9.4 of the Plan. In no event shall an alternate payee have the rights granted under sections 8.7, 8.8 and 8.9 of the Plan with respect to withdrawals and loans.
 
Effective with respect to judgments, orders, decrees and settlement agreements entered into on or after August 5, 1997, the first sentence of this section 14.1 shall not apply with respect to any offset to a Member's benefits expressly provided for in a judgment, order, decree or settlement agreement described in Code section 401(a)(13)(C).
 
 
Every person receiving or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be presumed to be mentally competent and of age until the Committee receives a written notice, in a form and manner acceptable to it, that such person is incompetent or a minor, and that a guardian, conservator, or other person legally vested with the care of his estate has been appointed. In the event that the Committee finds that any person to whom a benefit is payable under the Plan is unable to properly care for his or her affairs, or is a minor, then any payment due (unless a prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed legal representative) may be paid to the Spouse, a child, a parent, or a brother or sister, or to any person deemed by the Committee to be authorized to care for such person otherwise entitled to payment.
 
In the event a guardian, executor, administrator, or conservator of the estate of any person receiving or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, payments shall be made to such guardian, executor, administrator, or conservator provided that proper proof of appointment is furnished in a form and manner suitable to the Committee. Any payment made under the provisions of this section 14.2 shall be a complete discharge of any liability therefor under the Plan.
 
 
Each Member shall keep the Committee informed of the Member's current address and the current address of the Member's Spouse and Beneficiaries. Neither the Company nor any Affiliate, the Committee, nor the Trustee shall be obligated to search for the whereabouts of any such person. If the Committee is unable to locate the Member or the Member's Spouse or Beneficiaries, the Member's Accounts shall be deemed a Forfeiture and shall be used to reduce Company and Participating Employer contributions to the Plan; provided, however, that if the Member, Beneficiary, or Spouse makes a claim at any time for any amount that has been so forfeited, the forfeited benefits shall be reinstated. The amount required to restore such benefits shall be made up from Forfeitures and, to the extent necessary, from a special Company or Participating Employer contribution.
 
 
Neither the establishment of the Plan nor of the Thrift Trust, nor any modification thereof, nor any distributions hereunder shall be construed as giving to any person whomsoever any legal or equitable rights against the Committee, the Investment Committee, the Company or any Affiliate, or the officers, directors, or shareholders as such of the Company or any Affiliate, or as giving any Employee or Member the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. All benefits payable under the Plan shall be paid or provided for solely from the Thrift Trust, and the Company and Affiliates shall have no liability or responsibility for benefit distributions other than to make contributions to the Thrift Trust as herein provided.
 
 
The illegality of any particular provision of this Plan shall not affect the other provisions thereof, but the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision were omitted.
 
 
In the event of a mistake or misstatement as to the age, eligibility, compensation, service or participation of a Member or Beneficiary or the amount of distributions made or to be made to a Member, Beneficiary or other person, the Committee shall, to the extent it deems possible, cause to be withheld or accelerated, or otherwise make adjustment of, such amounts or distribution to which he or she is properly entitled under the Plan. In the event of an overpayment by the Plan, a Member or Beneficiary shall be obligated to repay amounts on demand to the extent of such overpayment.
 
 
Whenever in the administration of the Plan action by the Committee is required with respect to eligibility or classification of Employees, contributions, or benefits, such action shall be uniform in nature as applied to all persons similarly situated, and no such action shall discriminate in favor of Employees who are Highly Compensated Participants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The provisions of the Plan shall be construed, administered, and enforced in accordance with the laws of Illinois, to the extent such laws are not superseded by laws of the United States. All contributions by the Company and Participating Employers to the Thrift Trust shall be deemed to be made in Illinois.
 
 
Any election, notice, direction or other such action required or permitted to be made in writing under the Plan may also be made electronically, telephonically or otherwise, to the extent then permitted by applicable law and the administrative rules prescribed by the Committee.
 
 
In Witness Whereof, the Company has caused The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer this 22nd day of December, 2004.
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #1 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with this Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #2 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with this Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #3 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with this Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #4 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with this Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #5 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with this Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #5.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #6 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan") is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with this Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #6.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #7 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with the Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #7.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #8 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with the Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #8.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #9 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with the Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #9.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #10 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with the Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #10.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
balance and the related promissory note) from the Plan to a plan maintained by First Midwest (the "First Midwest Plan") that is qualified under section 401(a) of the Code (the "Administrative Rollover"). If a Higgins Branch Member does not make a timely election to make a direct rollover of all or part of his or her Account balance (including any then-outstanding Plan loan and the related promissory note) to the First Midwest Plan pursuant to the Administrative Rollover, or if a Higgins Branch employee is not eligible to make an election pursuant to the Administrative Rollover, either because he or she does not then meet the requirements to be a Higgins Branch Member or because his or her employment termination date from the Company is after June 15, 2003 (or such later date as the Committee has determined to be administratively feasible), then such Higgins Branch Member or Company employee shall have no rights whatsoever under this Supplement #10 or otherwise to elect a direct rollover that includes any then-outstanding Plan loan balance and related promissory note from the Plan to the First Midwest Plan. However, any such Higgins Branch Member shall nevertheless have the same rights to elect a direct rollover as any other Participant who incurs a Break in Service under the Plan in accordance with Section 9.6 of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #11 to The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan, As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan"), is made a part of the Plan and supersedes any provisions thereof to the extent that they are not consistent with the Supplement. Unless the context clearly implies or indicates to the contrary, a word, term or phrase used or defined in the Plan is similarly used or defined for purposes of this Supplement #11.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #12 to the Plan provides special rules for Members who were residents of the United Kingdom and previously participated under Supplement #1 of the Former ESOP Plan ("U.K. Participants"). Participation by U.K. Participants under the Former ESOP Plan ceased effective with the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2002. U.K. Participants who had an account balance under the Former ESOP Plan on December 31, 2004 had such account balance transferred to this Plan and credited to a Former ESOP Account. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the following special rules shall apply to the Former ESOP Accounts of such U.K. Participants:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Supplement #13 to the Plan sets forth rules that shall apply to the TIP ESOP and Former ESOP if the Company Stock ceases to be publicly traded within the meaning of Treasury regulation section 54.4975-7(b)(1)(iv).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOH = Date of Hire
 
Schedule A  Continued
 
 
 
 
DOH = Date of Hire
 
 
 
As of January 1, 2005, the Investment Funds set forth below are available under the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in Section 8.7(d), any withdrawal from the Account of a Participant or Inactive Participant under sections 8.7 or 8.8, or loan to the Participant or Inactive Participant pursuant to section 8.9, shall be charged against such Participant's or Inactive Participant's Investment Funds in the order designated below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall determine the place, in the foregoing order, for any other Fund established pursuant to section 6.1.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
, the Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") sponsors the Northern Trust Corporation Supplemental Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective as of July 20, 1999, (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to Section 7.1 of the Plan, the Corporation has the right to amend the Plan when the Corporation deems such amendment to be advisable; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Corporation deems it advisable to amend the Plan;
WHEREAS
 
, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
"In accordance with the Qualified Plan, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Participant and Inactive Participant shall become fully vested in the balance of his or her Supplemental Matching Contribution Account and his or her Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution Account. Any amounts credited to any such Supplemental Matching Contribution Account or to any such Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution Account following such Change in Control shall also be fully vested."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"provided, however, that no Supplemental ESOP Allocation shall be made to the Supplemental ESOP Account of any Participant under the Supplemental ESOP Plan for any Plan Year that begins on or after January 1, 2005."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"An employee of the Company shall also be a participant in the Plan in any Plan Year in which a Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution is made to his or her Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution Account pursuant to Section 3.4 of the Plan."
 
 
"The Supplemental Before-Tax Deposit made for the benefit of a Participant for any Plan Year shall be allocated to a Supplemental Before-Tax Deposit Account maintained under the Plan in the name of such Participant at such time(s) as the Committee shall determine, but in any event on or before the last day of such Plan Year."
 
 
"Supplemental Matching Contributions made for the benefit of a Participant for any Plan Year shall be allocated to a Supplemental Matching Contribution Account maintained under the Plan in the name of such Participant at such time(s) as the Committee shall determine, but in any event as of the last day of such Plan Year."
 
 
 
 
The Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution made for the benefit of a Participant for any Plan Year shall be allocated to a Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution Account maintained under the Plan in the name of such Participant at such time(s) as the Committee shall determine, but in any event as of the last day of such Plan Year."
 
 
 
 
 
Any unvested amounts credited to a Participant's Supplemental Matching Contribution Account and Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contribution Account shall be forfeited and retained by the Company."
 
 
 
has been made to him, such amounts shall be distributed to the Beneficiary designated by the Participant in a writing last delivered to the Committee prior to his death. The Beneficiary designated by the Participant under this Plan must be the same beneficiary designated by the Participant under the Supplemental ESOP Plan. If a Participant has not designated a Beneficiary, or if no designated Beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, such amounts shall be distributed to those persons entitled to receive distribution of the Participant's accounts under the Qualified Plan."
 
 
"No additional credits of Supplemental Before-Tax Deposits, Supplemental Matching Contributions or Supplemental Basic Profit Sharing Contributions shall be made to the Supplemental Account of a Participant after termination of the Plan, but gains and losses attributable to investments made pursuant to Section 4.1 shall continue to be credited to such Supplemental Account until the balance of such Supplemental Account has been fully distributed to the Participant or his Beneficiary."
 
 
 
 
 
Participant or Beneficiary and such benefit shall be forfeited; provided, however, that if the Participant or Beneficiary makes a valid claim for any benefit that has been forfeited, the forfeited benefit shall be reinstated."
 
, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed on its behalf this 22nd of December, 2004 effective January 1, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
, the Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") sponsors the Northern Trust Corporation Supplemental Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended and restated effective as of July 20, 1999, (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to Section 7.1 of the Plan, the Corporation has the right to amend the Plan when the Corporation deems such amendment to be advisable; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Corporation deems it advisable to amend the Plan;
WHEREAS
 
, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
"1.10 Participant' means any employee of the Company who was a participant in the Qualified Plan prior to January 1, 2005, as described in Section 2.1 of the Plan, and with respect to whom contributions were made under the Plan for any Plan Year that ended on or before December 31, 2004; provided, however, that no additional employees of the Company shall become Participants in the Plan after December 31, 2004."
 
 
 
"1.13 Qualified Plan' means the Northern Trust Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2002, and as further amended from time to time, and each predecessor, successor or replacement employee stock ownership plan, as such Qualified Plan existed immediately prior to its merger into the Qualified Thrift-Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 2005."
 
 
 
 
"provided, however, that no Supplemental ESOP Allocation shall be made to the Supplemental ESOP Account of any Participant for any Plan Year that begins on or after January 1, 2005."
 
 
"provided, however, that no additional employees of the Company shall become participants in the Plan after December 31, 2004."
 
 
"Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no Supplemental ESOP Allocation shall be made to the Supplemental ESOP Account of any Participant for any Plan Year that begins on or after January 1, 2005."
 
 
 
"The Beneficiary designated by the Participant under this Plan must be the same beneficiary designated by the Participant under the Northern Trust Corporation Supplemental Thrift-Incentive Plan. If a Participant has not designated a Beneficiary, or if no designated Beneficiary is living on the date of distribution, the vested adjusted balance of such Participant's Supplemental ESOP Account shall be distributed in one lump sum, in cash, to those persons entitled to receive distributions of the Participant's accounts under the Qualified Thrift-Incentive Plan."
 
 
 
"Except as otherwise expressly provided herein for any Plan Year that begins prior to January 1, 2005, all terms and conditions of the Qualified Plan applicable to allocations of Company Stock under the Qualified Plan shall also be applicable to a Supplemental ESOP Allocation made hereunder."
 
 
"8.9 Unclaimed Benefit. Each Participant shall keep the Committee informed of his current address and the current address of his designated Beneficiary. None of the Corporation, the Company or the Committee shall be obligated to search for the whereabouts of any person. If the Committee is unable to locate the Participant or any Beneficiary of the Participant, then none of the Corporation, the Company or the Plan shall have any further obligation to pay any benefit hereunder to such Participant or Beneficiary and such benefit shall be forfeited; provided, however, that if the Participant or Beneficiary makes a valid claim for any benefit that has been forfeited, the forfeited benefit shall be reinstated."
 
, the Corporation has caused this amendment to be executed on its behalf this 22nd of December, 2004 effective January 1, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
This notice is to advise you, pursuant to Rule 104 of Regulation BTR adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the authority of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, of an upcoming blackout period under The Northern Trust Company Thrift-Incentive Plan ("TIP"). The blackout period is expected to begin on January 21, 2005 and end on February 13, 2005.
 
The blackout period arises in connection with the merger of the Northern Trust Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") into the TIP on January 1, 2005. The ESOP/TIP recordkeeper, Hewitt Associates, will be completing asset reconciliation and recordkeeping account merger activities until February 14, 2005. Until this process is complete, participants will be unable to obtain a distribution upon termination of employment or retirement of their ESOP fund shares that will have been transferred to the TIP, potentially resulting in a "blackout" period for plan participants.
 
Most important to you, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Regulation BTR provide that, during such a blackout period, directors and executive officers may not purchase, sell or otherwise acquire or transfer any of the Corporation's equity securities if the director or executive officer has acquired such securities "in connection with his or her service or employment as a director or executive officer" of the Corporation. This prohibition applies to all equity securities of the Corporation held both inside and outside of the TIP. In other words, during this blackout period transactions of Corporation stock may not be effected in the open market by directors or executive officers.
 
If you have any questions about this notice, please contact me (312-557-8265) or Rose A. Ellis (312-444-3714) by telephone or by mail at Northern Trust Corporation, 50 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60675.


