FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20050222161852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registrant is filing this Current Report to disclose the registrant's consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto) for the year ended December 31, 2004, which will appear in the registrant's 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, and which will be incorporated by reference in the registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. This financial information is presented with page numbering that conforms to the presentation of pages 63 through 100 of the registrant's 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders. The registrant is disclosing its consolidated financial statements at this time to allow their incorporation by reference in offering circulars relating to the sale by The Northern Trust Company of up to an aggregate of Pounds Sterling 300 million of Senior and Subordinated Notes to European investors. The Northern Trust Company intends to use the proceeds of the Senior and Subordinated Notes for general corporate purposes, including to fund its previously announced acquisition of Baring Asset Management's Financial Services Group Limited, in which the purchaser's obligations are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 22, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors
Northern Trust Corporation:
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 No. 333-105423 and on Form S-8 Nos. 333-86418, 333-84085, 333-52623 and 333-58784 of Northern Trust Corporation of our report dated February 14, 2005, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Northern Trust Corporation as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Northern Trust Corporation dated February 22, 2005.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 22, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and reporting practices prescribed for the banking industry. A description of the significant accounting policies follows:
1. Accounting Policies
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, The Northern Trust Company (Bank), and their wholly-owned subsidiaries. Throughout the notes, the term "Northern Trust" refers to the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated statement of income includes results of acquired subsidiaries from the dates of acquisition. As a result of the disposition of Northern Trust Retirement Consulting, L.L.C. (NTRC) in June 2003, its operating results for all periods presented have been reclassified and shown as discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of income.
A. Basis of Presentation.
 
The Corporation is a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The principal subsidiary of the Corporation is the Chicago-based Bank. The Corporation also owns four national bank subsidiaries, a federal savings bank subsidiary, trust companies in Connecticut and New York and various other nonbank subsidiaries, including an investment management company owned through the Bank, a securities brokerage firm and an institutional investment management company. The Bank has offices in the Chicago area, an office and operations in London and various subsidiaries, including an investment management company, a leasing company, a Canadian trust company, a New York Edge Act company, a UK incorporated bank subsidiary, and a Dublin-based fund administration company.
B. Nature of Operations.
 
Northern Trust generates the majority of its revenues from its two primary business units: Corporate and Institutional Services (C&IS) and Personal Financial Services (PFS). Investment management services and products are provided to C&IS and PFS through a third business unit, Northern Trust Global Investments (NTGI). Operating and systems support for these business units are provided by a fourth business unit, Worldwide Operations and Technology (WWOT).
 
The C&IS business unit provides asset administration, asset management and related services world
wide to corporate and public entity retirement funds, foundation and endowment clients, fund managers, insurance companies and government funds; a full range of commercial banking services, including treasury management, to large domestic corporations and financial institutions (domestic and international); and foreign exchange services for global custody clients and Northern Trust's own account.
 
The PFS business unit provides personal trust, custody and investment management services, individual retirement accounts, guardianship and estate administration, qualified retirement plans, banking (including private banking), personal lending, and residential real estate mortgage lending, and also provides commercial banking services to small/mid-sized businesses. These services are delivered through the Bank in Illinois and a network of national and federal savings bank subsidiaries.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
C. Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements.
 
If the functional currency of a foreign branch or subsidiary is the U.S. dollar, foreign currency asset and liability accounts are translated at current rates of exchange, except for buildings and equipment which are translated at exchange rates in effect at the date of acquisition. Results from remeasurement are reported in other operating income. Income and expense accounts are translated at month-end rates of exchange.
D. Foreign Currency Translation.
 
If the functional currency of a foreign branch or subsidiary is its local currency, the local currency asset and liability accounts are translated at current rates of exchange. Translation adjustments are reported, net of tax, directly to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity. Income and expense accounts are translated at month-end rates of exchange.
 
are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses credited or charged, net of the tax effect, to accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stock - -
E. Securities.
Securities Available for Sale
 
 
 
holders' equity. Realized gains and losses on securities available for sale are determined on a specific identification basis and are reported in the consolidated statement of income as investment security gains, net. Interest income is recorded on the accrual basis adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount.
 
consist of debt securities that management intends to, and Northern Trust has the ability to, hold until maturity. Such securities are reported at cost, adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount. Interest income is recorded on the accrual basis adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount.
Securities Held to Maturity
 
are stated at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on securities held for trading are reported in the consolidated statement of income under security commissions and trading income.
Securities Held for Trading
 
Northern Trust is a party to various derivative instruments as part of its asset/liability management activities, to meet the risk management needs of its clients and as part of its trading activity for its own account. Derivative financial instruments include interest rate swap contracts, foreign exchange contracts, credit default swaps, options and similar contracts. Unrealized gains and receivables on derivative instruments are reported as other assets and unrealized losses and payables are reported as other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
F. Derivative Financial Instruments.
 
Fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge derivatives are designated and formally documented as such on the date they are transacted. The formal documentation describes the hedge relationship and identifies the hedging instruments and hedged items. Included in the documentation is a discussion of the risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking such hedges, as well as a description of the method for assessing hedge effectiveness at inception and on an ongoing basis. A formal assessment is performed on a calendar quarter basis to verify derivatives used in hedging transactions continue to be highly effective as offsets to changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. If a derivative ceases to be highly effective, or if the hedged item matures, is sold, or is terminated, or if hedged forecasted transactions are no longer expected to occur, hedge accounting is terminated and the derivative is treated as if it were a client-related or trading instrument.
Asset/Liability Management Instruments.
 
Fair value hedge designations are made between a derivative and a recognized asset or liability. Interest accruals and changes in fair value of the derivative are recognized as a component of the interest income or expense classification of the hedged item. Changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability attributable to the risk being hedged are reflected in its carrying amount and are also recognized as a component of its interest income or expense.
 
Cash flow hedge designations are made between derivatives and forecasted cash inflows or outflows so as to hedge against variability due to a specific risk. The effective portion of unrealized gains and losses on such derivatives is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity. Any hedge ineffectiveness is recognized currently in the income or expense classification of the hedged item. When the hedged forecasted transaction impacts earnings, balances in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the same income or expense classification as the hedged item.
 
Net investment hedge designations are made between a foreign exchange contract and a net investment in a foreign branch or subsidiary. Changes in the fair value of the hedging contract are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Hedge ineffectiveness is calculated based on changes in forward rates of the derivative and the hedged net investment. Any ineffectiveness is recorded to other income only if the notional amount of the derivative does not match the portion of the net investment designated as being hedged.
 
Other derivatives transacted as economic hedges of foreign denominated assets and liabilities and of credit risk are carried on the balance sheet at fair value and any changes in fair value are recognized currently in income.
 
Derivative financial instruments entered into to meet clients' risk management needs or for trading purposes are carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and losses included in security commissions and trading income.
Client-Related and Trading Instruments.
 
Loans that are held to maturity are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income. Residential real estate loans classified as held for sale are reported at the lower of aggregate cost or market value. Loan commitments for residential real estate loans that will be classified as held for sale at the time of funding and which have an interest-rate lock
G. Loans and Leases.
 
 
 
are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with subsequent gains or losses recognized as other income. Unrealized gains are reported as other assets, with unrealized losses reported as other liabilities. Other unfunded loan commitments that are not held for sale are carried at the amount of unamortized fees with a reserve for credit loss liability recognized for any probable losses.
 
Interest income on loans is recorded on an accrual basis unless, in the opinion of management, there is a question as to the ability of the debtor to meet the terms of the loan agreement, or interest or principal is more than 90 days contractually past due and the loan is not well-secured and in the process of collection. At the time a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, interest accrued but not collected is reversed against interest income of the current period. Loans are returned to accrual status when factors indicating doubtful collectibility no longer exist. Interest collected on nonaccrual loans is applied to principal unless, in the opinion of management, collectibility of principal is not in doubt.
 
A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, management determines that it is probable that Northern Trust will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impaired loans are measured based upon the loan's market price, the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's initial effective interest rate, or at the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded value of the loan, a specific reserve is established for the difference.
 
Premiums and discounts on loans are recognized as an adjustment of yield using the interest method based on the contractual terms of the loan. Commitment fees that are considered to be an adjustment to the loan yield, loan origination fees and certain direct costs are deferred and accounted for as an adjustment to the yield.
 
Unearned lease income from direct financing and leveraged leases is recognized using the interest method. This method provides a constant rate of return on the unrecovered investment over the life of the lease.
 
The reserve for credit losses represents management's estimate of probable inherent losses which have occurred as of the date of the financial statements. The loan and lease portfolio and other credit exposures are regularly reviewed to evaluate the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses. In determining the level of the reserve, Northern Trust
H. Reserve for Credit Losses.
evaluates the reserve necessary for specific nonperforming loans and also estimates losses inherent in other credit exposures. The result is a reserve with the following components:
 
The amount of specific reserves is determined through a loan-by-loan analysis of nonperforming loans that considers expected future cash flows, the value of collateral and other factors that may impact the borrower's ability to pay.
Specific Reserve.
 
The amount of the allocated portion of the inherent loss reserve is based on loss factors assigned to Northern Trust's credit exposures based on internal credit ratings. These loss factors are primarily based on management's judgment of estimated credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as well as historical charge-off experience.
Allocated Inherent Reserve.
 
Management determines the unallocated portion of the inherent loss reserve based on factors that cannot be associated with a specific credit or loan category. These factors include management's subjective evaluation of local and national economic and business conditions, portfolio concentration and changes in the character and size of the loan portfolio. The unallocated portion of the reserve for credit losses reflects management's attempt to ensure that the overall reserve appropriately reflects a margin for the imprecision associated with estimates of inherent credit losses.
Unallocated Inherent Reserve.
 
Loans, leases and other extensions of credit deemed uncollectible are charged to the reserve. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the reserve. Actual losses may vary from current estimates and the amount of the provision may be either greater than or less than actual net charge-offs. The related provision for credit losses, which is charged to income, is the amount necessary to adjust the reserve to the level determined through the above process.
 
Control processes maintained by Northern Trust Credit Policy and lending staff, and a quarterly analysis of specific and inherent loss components are the principal methods relied upon by management to ensure that changes in estimated credit loss levels are adjusted on a timely basis. In addition to Northern Trust's own experience, management also considers the experience of peer institutions and regulatory guidance.
 
Although Northern Trust analyzes its exposure to credit losses from both on- and off-balance sheet activity as one process, the portion of the reserve assigned to
 
 
 
loans and leases is reported as a contra asset, directly following loans and leases in the consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the reserve assigned to unfunded commitments and standby letters of credit is reported in other liabilities for financial reporting purposes.
 
Fees on standby letters of credit are recognized in other operating income on the straight-line method over the lives of the underlying agreements. Income from commissions on bankers acceptances is recognized in other operating income when the payment from the customer is received by the accepting bank.
I. Fees on Standby Letters of Credit and Bankers Acceptances.
 
Buildings and equipment owned are carried at original cost less accumulated depreciation. The charge for depreciation is computed on the straight-line method based on the following range of lives: buildings10 to 30 years; equipment3 to 10 years; and leasehold improvementslease term to 15 years. Leased properties meeting certain criteria are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over the lease period.
J. Buildings and Equipment.
 
OREO is comprised of commercial and residential real estate properties acquired in partial or total satisfaction of problem loans. OREO assets are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Losses identified at the time of acquisition of such properties are charged against the reserve for credit losses assigned to loans. Subsequent write-downs that may be required to the carrying value of these assets and losses realized from asset sales are charged to other operating expenses.
K. Other Real Estate Owned (OREO).
 
Northern Trust's 20% interest in RemitStream Solutions, LLC (lockbox services), its interest in EquiLend LLC (securities lending services) and its 50% interest in Helaba Northern Trust GMBH (investment management services) are carried on the equity method of accounting. The combined book value of these investments at December 31, 2004 totaled $3.2 million. Northern Trust's $4.9 million investment in CLS Group Holdings (foreign exchange settlement services) is carried at cost.
L. Unconsolidated Affiliates.
 
In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Corporation does not amortize its recorded goodwill.
M. Intangible Assets.
 
Other separately identifiable acquired intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over
their estimated useful lives. Purchased software and other allowable internal costs, including compensation relating to software developed for internal use, are capitalized. Software is being amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset, generally ranging from 3 to 10 years.
 
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
 
Assets held in fiduciary or agency capacities are not included in the consolidated balance sheet, since such items are not assets of Northern Trust.
N. Assets Under Administration and Trust Fees.
 
Fees from trust activities are recorded on the accrual basis, over the period in which the service is provided. Fees are a function of the market value of assets administered and managed, the volume of transactions, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered, as set forth in the underlying client agreement. This revenue recognition involves the use of estimates and assumptions, including components that are calculated based on estimated asset valuations and transaction volumes.
 
Certain investment management fee arrangements also may provide performance fees that are based on client portfolio returns exceeding predetermined levels. Northern Trust adheres to a policy in which it does not record any performance-based fee income until the end of the contract year, thereby eliminating the potential that revenue will be recognized in one quarter and reversed in a future quarter. Therefore, Northern Trust does not record any revenue under incentive fee programs that is at risk due to future performance contingencies. These arrangements often contain similar terms for the payment of performance-based fees to sub-advisors. The accounting for these performance-based expenses matches the treatment for the related performance-based revenues.
 
Client reimbursed out-of-pocket expenses on occasion involve trust activities. Where such reimbursements are an extension of the trust service rendered, they are recorded on a gross basis as trust revenue.
 
These receivables represent other collection items presented on behalf of trust clients.
O. Trust Security Settlement Receivables.
 
Northern Trust follows an asset and liability approach to account for income taxes. The objective is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and to recognize
P. Income Taxes.
 
 
 
deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between the amounts reported in the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The measurement of tax assets and liabilities is based on enacted tax laws and applicable tax rates.
 
Cash and cash equivalents have been defined as "Cash and Due from Banks."
Q. Cash Flow Statements.
 
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for stock-based compensation plans. SFAS No. 123 allows two alternative accounting methods: (1) a fair-value-based method, or (2) an intrinsic-value-based method which is prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related interpretations. Northern Trust has elected to account for its stock-based incentives under APB 25, and has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 which have been amended by SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosure."
R. Stock-Based Compensation Plans.
 
Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by SFAS No. 123, and has been determined as if the Corporation had accounted for its stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123. For purposes of estimating the fair value of the Corporation's employee stock options at the grant-date, a Black-Scholes option pricing model was used with the following weighted average assumptions for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 3.14%, 3.94% and 5.11%; dividend yields of 2.54%, 2.08% and 1.29%; volatility factors of the expected market price of the Corporation's common stock of 33.8%, 33.5% and 31.2%; and a weighted average expected life of the options of 5.5 years, 6.1 years and 6.2 years.
 
The weighted average fair value of options granted in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $13.62, $10.41 and $18.75, respectively. For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the options' six months to four-year vesting periods.
 
The pro forma information follows:
 
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," (SFAS No. 123(R)). SFAS No. 123(R) addresses the accounting for share-based payment transactions in which an enterprise receives employee services in exchange for (a) equity instruments of the enterprise or (b) liabilities that are based on the fair value of the enterprise's equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments. SFAS No. 123(R) requires an entity to recognize the grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation issued to employees in the income statement using a fair-value-based method, eliminating the intrinsic value method of accounting previously permissible under APB 25. SFAS No. 123(R) is required to be adopted no later than July 1, 2005.
 
Northern Trust's adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), effective July 1, 2005, is expected to increase pre-tax compensation expense in 2005 by approximately $7 million, resulting in an approximate $.02 reduction in earnings per share. This estimate reflects the expense to be recorded under SFAS No. 123(R) for the post-adoption vesting of options granted prior to 2005. The estimate does not reflect expense for options granted in February 2005, as they fully vest on March 31, 2005.
 
 
 
In December 2003, the FASB issued revised Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46(R)), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which replaced the original Interpretation No. 46 that had been issued in January 2003. FIN 46(R) clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. Such entities are termed variable interest entities. Application of FIN 46(R) by public entities for all variable interest entities was required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. Northern Trust evaluated the revised requirements of variable interest accounting under FIN 46(R) and determined that there was no change required in Northern Trust's accounting treatment for variable interest entities. Northern Trust will continue to monitor, evaluate, and apply authoritative guidance relating to variable interest accounting as it is issued.
2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In May 2004, the FASB staff issued Staff Position 106-2 (FSP 106-2), "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003" (the Act). FSP 106-2 provides guidance on the accounting for the effects of the Act for employers that sponsor post-retirement health care plans that provide prescription drug benefits. In the third quarter of 2004, Northern Trust made a one-time election under the Act to account for the prescription drug subsidy retrospectively, as permitted by FSP 106-2. FSP 106-2 also requires employers to provide certain disclosures, included by the Corporation in Note 21, regarding the effect of the Federal subsidy provided by the Act.
 
In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), which allows for a special one-time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer, was signed into law. In December 2004, the FASB staff issued Staff Position 109-2 (FSP 109-2), "Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision
within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004" to provide accounting and disclosure guidance related to the tax impact of this repatriation provision. Northern Trust is currently evaluating the available elections under the AJCA and their impact under FSP 109-2 and expects to complete its evaluation during 2005. However, an election by Northern Trust to repatriate foreign earnings and take a dividends received deduction is not expected to have a material effect on its consolidated results of operations.
 
In June 2003, Northern Trust sold substantially all of the assets of NTRC. NTRC provided various benefit plan administrative services as well as retirement consulting and actuarial services, including plan design and communication. The sale of NTRC assets resulted in a pre-tax net loss on disposal of $20.2 million in the second quarter of 2003, principally reflecting the write-off of unamortized technology investments, lease exit costs and severance benefits. Results of the NTRC business for the current and all prior periods presented, and the loss on its disposal, are reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of income and in the results of the C&IS business unit.
3. Discontinued Operations
 
Pre-tax income from discontinued operations of $1.4 million was recorded in 2004 primarily as a result of changes in estimates used to calculate the loss on the disposal of certain assets that were not transferred in the sale. Additional pre-tax charges of $2.9 million associated with the business transition were incurred in 2003 subsequent to the sale.
 
Revenue from NTRC totaled $32.8 million and $72.1 million for the period January 1, 2003 through June 15, 2003, and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002, respectively.
 
In addition to reclassifications related to discontinued operations, other reclassifications have been made to prior periods' consolidated financial statements to place them on a basis comparable with the current period's consolidated financial statements.
4. Reclassifications
 
 
 
The following tables summarize the amortized cost, fair values and remaining maturities of securities available for sale.
5. SecuritiesSecurities Available for Sale.
 
RECONCILIATION
OF
AMORTIZED
COST
TO
FAIR
VALUES
OF
SECURITIES
AVAILABLE
FOR
SALE
 
REMAINING
MATURITY
OF
SECURITIES
AVAILABLE
FOR
SALE
Mortgage-backed securities are included in the above table taking into account anticipated future prepayments.
 
The following tables summarize the book values, fair values and remaining maturities of securities held to maturity.
Securities Held to Maturity.
 
RECONCILIATION
OF
BOOK
VALUES
TO
FAIR
VALUES
OF
SECURITIES
HELD
TO
MATURITY
 
 
 
 
REMAINING
MATURITY
OF
SECURITIES
HELD
TO
MATURITY
 
Mortgage-backed securities are included in the above table taking into account anticipated future prepayments.
 
The following table provides information regarding securities at December 31, 2004 that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer.
Securities with Unrealized Losses.
 
 
As of December 31, 2004, 239 securities with a combined fair value of $1.9 billion were in an unrealized loss position. Of these, 136 securities totaling $69.5 million are municipal bonds of which 106 bonds, totaling $59.5 million with an unrealized loss of $1.0 million, have been at a loss for less than 12 months. The remaining 30 municipal bonds, totaling $10.0 million with an unrealized loss of $.2 million, have been at a loss for more than 12 months. The total unrealized losses on these municipal bonds represent less than 2% of their total book value and are attributable to changes in overall market interest rates.
 
There were 44 government sponsored agency securities, totaling $1.4 billion, 6 U.S. Government securities, totaling $23.6 million and 13 asset-backed securities, totaling $338.4 million, in unrealized loss positions for less than 12 months at December 31, 2004. The unrealized losses on these securities, totaling $1.6 million,
represent less than .1% of their combined book value and are attributable to changes in overall market interest rates.
 
The remaining 40 securities in a loss position consist of other securities with a fair value of $39.1 million and a combined unrealized loss of $5.0 million (or approximately 11% of their combined book value) that were purchased for compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). These CRA-related securities were purchased at below market rates for the purpose of supporting institutions and programs that benefit low to moderate income communities within Northern Trust's market area. Prices of corporate or mortgage-backed bonds with comparable credit quality are used to value CRA-related securities. Northern Trust has the ability and intent to hold all CRA-related securities until maturity and expects timely payment of all principal and interest.
 
 
 
Realized gross security gains and losses totaled $.2 million and none, respectively, in 2004. There were no security gains or losses in 2003. Realized gross security gains and losses totaled $.3 million and none, respectively, in 2002.
Investment Security Gains and Losses.
 
Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. To minimize any potential credit risk associated with these transactions, the fair value of the securities purchased or sold is continuously monitored, limits are set on exposure with counterparties, and the financial condition of counterparties is regularly assessed. It is Northern Trust's policy to take possession of securities purchased under agreements to resell.
6. Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
 
The following tables summarize information related to securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
 
SECURITIES
PURCHASED
UNDER
AGREEMENTS
TO
RESELL
 
SECURITIES
SOLD
UNDER
AGREEMENTS
TO
REPURCHASE
 
Amounts outstanding in selected loan categories are shown below.
7. Loans and Leases
 
 
Other domestic and international loans include $710.0 million at December 31, 2004, and $672.2 million at December 31, 2003 of overnight trust-related advances in connection with next day security settlements. Lease financing includes leveraged leases of $831.1 million at December 31, 2004, and $810.3 million at December 31, 2003.
 
Residential real estate loans classified as held for sale totaled $.3 million at December 31, 2004 and $1.1 million at December 31, 2003.
 
. Although credit exposure is well diversified, there are certain groups of credits that meet the accounting definition under SFAS No. 107 of credit risk concentrations. According to this statement, group concentrations of credit risk exist if a number of borrowers or other counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions. The fact that a credit exposure falls into one of these groups does not necessarily indicate that the credit has a higher than normal degree of credit risk. These groups are: residential real estate, banks and bank holding companies, commercial real estate and commercial aircraft leases.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
. The residential real estate loan portfolio totaled $8.1 billion or 47% of total domestic loans at December 31, 2004, compared with $8.0 billion or 46% at December 31, 2003. Residential real estate loans consist of conventional home mortgages and equity credit lines, which generally require a loan to collateral value of no more than 75% to 80% at inception.
Residential Real Estate
 
Of the total $8.1 billion in residential real estate loans, $3.3 billion were in the greater Chicago area with the remainder distributed throughout the other geographic regions served by Northern Trust. Legally binding commitments to extend credit, which are primarily equity credit lines, totaled $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
On-balance sheet credit risk to banks and bank holding companies, both domestic and international, consists primarily of short-term money market assets, which totaled $13.1 billion and $9.5 billion at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively, and noninterest bearing demand balances maintained at correspondent banks, which totaled $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. Northern Trust also provides commercial financing to banks and bank holding companies with which it has a substantial business relationship. Northern Trust's outstanding lending exposure to these entities, primarily U.S. bank holding companies located in the Greater Midwest, was not considered material to its consolidated financial position as of December 31, 2004 or 2003.
Banks and Bank Holding Companies
.
 
In managing its credit exposure, management has defined a commercial real estate loan as one where: (1) the borrower's principal business activity is the acquisition or the development of real estate for commercial purposes; (2) the principal collateral is real estate held for commercial purposes, and loan repayment is expected to flow from the operation of the property; or (3) the loan repayment is expected to flow from the sale or refinance of real estate as a normal and ongoing part of the business. Unsecured lines of credit to firms or individuals engaged in commercial real estate endeavors are included without regard to the use of loan proceeds. The commercial real estate portfolio consists of interim loans and commercial mortgages.
Commercial Real Estate
.
 
Short-term interim loans provide financing for the initial phases of the acquisition or development of commercial real estate, with the intent that the borrower will refinance the loan through another financial institution or sell the project upon its completion. The interim loans are primarily in those markets where Northern Trust has a strong presence and a thorough knowledge of the local economy. The interim loans, which totaled $406.4 million and $436.1 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are composed primarily of loans to developers that are highly experienced and well known to Northern Trust.
 
Commercial mortgage financing, which totaled $901.1 million and $861.0 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is provided for the acquisition of income producing properties. Cash flows from the properties generally are sufficient to amortize the loan. These loans average less than $500,000 each and are primarily located in the suburban Chicago and Florida markets.
 
At December 31, 2004, legally binding commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit to commercial real estate developers totaled $313.3 million and $37.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, legally binding commitments were $227.5 million and standby letters of credit were $23.6 million.
 
. Through its leasing subsidiary, Norlease, Inc., Northern Trust has entered into leveraged lease transactions involving commercial aircraft totaling $244 million, which are a part of the $1.2 billion lease financing portfolio at December 31, 2004. $142 million of the leveraged leases involve aircraft leases to foreign airlines, where the leases are fully backed by a combination of pledged marketable securities and guarantees from either a domestic "AAA" rated insurance company or a large U.S.-based banking institution. $9 million represents leases to domestic airlines; $72 million to commercial transport companies; and the balance for commuter aircraft leases, which are guaranteed by aircraft manufacturers or by sovereign entities.
Commercial Aircraft Leases
 
 
 
NONPERFORMING
ASSETS
 
Included in nonperforming assets were loans with a recorded investment at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 of $30.3 million (net of $7.3 million in charge-offs) and $78.7 million (net of $12.0 million in charge-offs), respectively, which were also classified as impaired. At December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, impaired loans totaling $2.5 million (net of $4.8 million in charge-offs) and $5.6 million (net of $4.8 million in charge-offs), respectively, had no portion of the reserve for credit losses specifically allocated to them, while $27.8 million (net of $2.5 million in charge-offs) at December 31, 2004 had a specific allocated reserve of $24.0 million and $73.1 million (net of $7.2 million in charge-offs) at December 31, 2003 had a specific allocated reserve of $37.0 million. Total recorded
investment in impaired loans averaged $64.6 million in 2004 and $92.0 million in 2003.
 
There were $1.6 million of unfunded loan commitments and standby letters of credit issued to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual at December 31, 2004, and $6.4 million at December 31, 2003.
 
Interest income that would have been recorded on nonaccrual loans in accordance with their original terms amounted to approximately $3.8 million in 2004, $5.6 million in 2003 and $6.4 million in 2002, compared with amounts that were actually recorded of approximately $58 thousand, $345 thousand and $77 thousand, respectively.
 
Changes in the reserve for credit losses were as follows:
8. Reserve for Credit Losses
 
 
A summary of buildings and equipment is presented below.
9. Buildings and Equipment
 
 
 
 
The charge for depreciation, which includes depreciation of assets recorded under capital leases, amounted to $82.6 million in 2004, $82.2 million in 2003 and $81.0 million in 2002.
 
At December 31, 2004, Northern Trust was obligated under a number of non-cancelable operating leases for buildings and equipment. Certain leases contain rent escalation clauses based on market indices or increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses and renewal option clauses calling for increased rentals. There are no restrictions imposed by any lease agreement regarding the payment of dividends, debt financing or Northern Trust entering into further lease agreements. Minimum annual lease commitments as of December 31, 2004 for all non-cancelable operating leases with a term of 1 year or more are as follows:
10. Lease Commitments
 
 
Net rental expense for all operating leases is included in occupancy expense and amounted to $56.2 million in 2004, $70.3 million in 2003 and $44.3 million in 2002. Net rental expense for 2003 included an $18.9 million charge relating to reduced office space requirements.
 
One of the buildings and related land utilized for Chicago operations has been leased under an agreement that qualifies as a capital lease. The long-term financing for the property was provided by the Corporation and the Bank. In the event of sale or refinancing, the Bank will receive all proceeds except for 58% of any proceeds
in excess of the original project costs, which will be paid to the lessor.
 
The following table reflects the future minimum lease payments required under capital leases, net of any payments received on the long-term financing, and the present value of net capital lease obligations at December 31, 2004.
 
 
In 2003, Northern Trust substantially completed its acquisition of Deutsche Bank AG's global passive equity, enhanced equity and passive fixed income investment management businesses. The purchase price totaled $123.8 million, and was primarily based on the value of revenues represented by managed assets transferred. Included in the acquisition costs were $99.6 million of goodwill and $24.2 million of other intangible assets.
11. Business Combinations
 
In 2003, Northern Trust also acquired Legacy South, an Atlanta-based private wealth management firm that services high net worth individuals, families and private foundations. The purchase price of $13.7 million, which was based on the value of revenues represented by managed assets transferred, was paid in 2003 and 2004. Included in the acquisition costs were $10.3 million of goodwill and $3.4 million of other intangible assets. Legacy South was merged into Northern Trust Bank, FSB in 2003.
 
 
 
Goodwill and other intangible assets are included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, are as follows:
 
 
The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of other intangible assets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, are as follows:
 
 
 
Other intangible assets consist primarily of the value of acquired client relationships. Amortization expense related to other intangible assets was $9.8 million, $10.4 million, and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Amortization for the years 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 is estimated to be $8.7 million, $8.4 million, $6.1 million, $4.2 million, and $3.8 million, respectively. Estimated amortization amounts do not include any amortization that may result from the planned acquisition of Baring Asset Management's Financial Services Group discussed in Note 33.
 
A summary of Bank senior notes outstanding at December 31 is presented below.
12. Senior Notes, Long-Term Debt and Lines of CreditSenior Notes.
 
 
A summary of long-term debt outstanding at December 31 is presented below.
Long-Term Debt.
 
 
(a) Not redeemable prior to maturity.
 
(b) Under the terms of its current Offering Circular, the Bank has the ability to offer from time to time its senior bank notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $4.5 billion at any one time outstanding and up to an additional $300 million of subordinated notes. Each senior note will mature from 30 days to fifteen years and each subordinated note will mature from five years to fifteen years, following its date of original issuance. Each note will mature on such date as selected by the initial purchaser and agreed to by the Bank.
 
(c) Refer to Note 10.
 
(d) Debt issue costs are recorded as an asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the Note.
 
The Corporation currently maintains a commercial paper back-up line of credit with two banks totaling $50 million. The termination date is November 2005. A pricing matrix that is based on the long-term senior debt ratings of the Corporation determines the commitment fee. Currently, the annual fee is 8 basis points of the commitment. There were no borrowings under commercial paper back-up facilities during 2004 or 2003.
Line of Credit.
 
 
 
In January 1997, the Corporation issued $150 million of Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series A, through a statutory business trust wholly-owned by the Corporation ("NTC Capital I"). In April 1997, the Corporation also issued, through a separate wholly-owned statutory business trust ("NTC Capital II"), $120 million of Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series B. The sole assets of the trusts are Subordinated Debentures of Northern Trust Corporation that have the same interest rates and maturity dates as the corresponding distribution rates and redemption dates of the Floating Rate Capital Securities. The Series A Securities were issued at a discount to yield 60.5 basis points above the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and are due January 15, 2027. The Series B Securities were issued at a discount to yield 67.9 basis points above the three-month LIBOR and are due April 15, 2027. Both Series A and B Securities qualify as tier 1 capital for regulatory purposes. NTC Capital I and NTC Capital II are considered variable interest entities under FIN 46(R). However, as the Corporation has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of the trusts, they are not consolidated by the Corporation.
13. Floating Rate Capital Debt
 
The Corporation has fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guaranteed all payments due on the Series A and B Securities. The holders of the Series A and B Securities are entitled to receive preferential cumulative cash distributions quarterly in arrears (based on the liquidation amount of $1,000 per Security) at an interest rate equal to the rate on the corresponding Subordinated Debentures. The interest rate on the Series A and Series B securities is equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.52% and 0.59%, respectively. Subject to certain exceptions, the Corporation has the right to defer payment of interest on the Subordinated Debentures at any time or from time to time for a period not exceeding 20 consecutive quarterly periods provided that no extension period may extend beyond the stated maturity date. If interest is deferred on the Subordinated Debentures, distributions on the Series A and B Securities will also be deferred and the Corporation will not be permitted, subject to certain exceptions, to pay or declare any cash distributions with respect to the Corporation's capital stock or debt securities that rank the same as or junior to the Subordinated Debentures, until all past due distributions are paid. The Subordinated Debentures are unsecured and subordinated to substantially all of the Corporation's existing indebtedness.
 
The Corporation has the right to redeem the Series A Subordinated Debentures on or after January 15, 2007 and the Series B Subordinated Debentures on or after April 15, 2007, in each case in whole or in part. In addition, the Corporation has the right to redeem the Subordinated Debentures held by either trust in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following certain defined tax or regulatory capital treatment changes, at a price equal to the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
 
The following table summarizes the book values of the outstanding Subordinated Debentures as of December 31, 2004 and 2003:
 
 
The Corporation is authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without par value. The Board of Directors of the Corporation is authorized to fix the particular preferences, rights, qualifications and restrictions for each series of preferred stock issued.
14. Stockholders' EquityPreferred Stock.
 
The Corporation (i) redeemed on May 21, 2003 all of its outstanding Auction Preferred Stock, Series C at the redemption price of $100,000 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to May 21, 2003 of $197.36 per share, for a total payment of $100,197.36 per share and (ii) redeemed on June 4, 2003 all of its outstanding Flexible Auction Preferred Stock, Series D at the redemption price of $100,000 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to June 4, 2003 of $204.17 per share, for a total payment of $100,204.17 per share. There was no preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2004 or 2003.
 
On July 21, 1998 the Board of Directors of the Corporation declared a dividend distribution of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right for each outstanding share of the Corporation's common stock issuable to stockholders of record at the close
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
 
 
 
of business on October 31, 1999. As a result of anti-dilution provisions, each share of common stock now has one-half of one Right associated with it. Each Right is exercisable for one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $330.00, subject to adjustment. The Rights will be evidenced by the common stock certificates and will not be exercisable or transferable apart from the common stock until twenty days after a person or group acquires 15 percent or more of the shares of common stock then outstanding or announces a tender or exchange offer which if consummated would result in ownership of 15 percent or more of the outstanding common stock.
 
In the event that any person or group acquires 15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, each Right entitles the holder, other than such person or group, to purchase that number of shares of
common stock of the Corporation having a market value of twice the exercise price of the Right. At any time thereafter if the Corporation consummates a business combination transaction or sells substantially all of its assets, each Right entitles the holder, other than the person or group acquiring 15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, to purchase that number of shares of surviving company stock which at the time of the transaction would have a market value of twice the exercise price of the Right.
 
The Rights do not have voting rights and are redeemable at the option of the Corporation at a price of one-half of one cent per Right at any time prior to the close of business on the twentieth day following announcement by the Corporation of the acquisition of 15 percent or more of the outstanding common stock by a person or group. Unless earlier redeemed, the Rights will expire on October 31, 2009.
 
An analysis of changes in the number of shares of common stock outstanding follows:
Common Stock.
 
 
The Corporation's current stock buyback program authorization was increased to 12.0 million shares in April 2003. Under this program, the Corporation may purchase up to 6.8 million additional shares after December 31, 2004. The repurchased shares would be used
primarily for management incentive plans and other corporate purposes. The average price paid per share for common stock repurchased in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $44.05, $40.17 and $47.20, respectively.
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the components of accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and changes during the years then ended, presented on an after-tax basis.
15. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
 
The computation of net income per common share is presented below.
16. Net Income Per Common Share Computations
 
 
Note: For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, options to purchase 13,727,609, 12,392,288 and 10,428,334 shares of the Corporation's common stock, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted net income per common share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of Northern Trust's common stock during these periods.
 
The components of net interest income were as follows:
17. Net Interest Income
 
 
 
 
The components of other operating income were as follows:
18. Other Operating Income and Expenses
 
 
Other expenses in 2004 included an $11.6 million loss from securities processing activities related to a stock conversion offer that was not processed on a timely basis and a $17.0 million charge for a pending litigation settlement relating to Northern Trust Bank of California N.A.
 
Losses from equity investments in 2002 included a $15.0 million write-off of an equity investment in myCFO, Inc. and a $4.8 million write-off of an equity investment in the Global Straight Through Processing Association industry utility. Other income in 2002 included gains of $8.5 million from the sale of leased equipment at the end of the scheduled lease terms and a $4.6 million write-off of the residual value of an aircraft leased to United Airlines.
 
The components of other operating expenses were as follows:
 
 
During 2003, Northern Trust implemented a number of steps to reduce operating costs and strategically position itself for improved profitability, resulting in pre-tax charges included in noninterest expenses of $56.3 million. Of this charge, $24.0 million represented severance costs; $18.9 million reflected the reduction in the amount of required leased and owned office space as a result of lower staff levels; and $13.4 million related to other charges consisting primarily of asset retirements.
19. Other Charges
 
Changes related to these actions included within other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet were as follows:
 
 
 
 
The table below reconciles the total provision for income taxes on continuing operations recorded in the consolidated statement of income with the amounts computed at the statutory federal tax rate of 35%.
20. Income Taxes
 
 
The components of the consolidated provision for income taxes for each of the three years ended December 31 are as follows:
 
 
In addition to the amounts shown above, tax liabilities (benefits) have been recorded directly to stockholders' equity for the following items:
 
 
Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities and assets have been computed as follows:
 
 
No valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets has been recorded at December 31, 2004 and 2003 as management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be fully realized.
 
At December 31, 2004, Northern Trust had state net operating loss carryforwards of $327.5 million which are available to reduce future state tax return liabilities. If not used, the loss carryforwards will expire from 2019 through 2021. The carryforwards are subject to various limitations imposed by tax laws.
 
 
 
A noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan covers substantially all domestic employees of Northern Trust. Assets held by the plan consist primarily of listed stocks and corporate bonds.
21. Employee BenefitsPension.
 
Northern Trust also maintains a noncontributory nonqualified pension plan for participants whose retirement benefit payments under the qualified plan are expected to exceed the limits imposed by federal tax law. Northern Trust has a nonqualified trust, referred to as a "Rabbi" Trust, to fund benefits in excess of those permitted in certain of its qualified plans. The primary purpose of the trust is to fund nonqualified retirement
benefits. This arrangement offers participants a degree of assurance for payment of benefits in excess of those permitted in the related qualified plans. The assets remain subject to the claims of creditors and are not the property of the employees. Therefore, they are accounted for as corporate assets and are included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
The following tables set forth the status and the net periodic pension cost of the domestic qualified and nonqualified pension benefit plans for 2004 and 2003 based on a September 30 measurement date. Prior service costs established January 1, 2002 are being amortized on a straight-line basis over 11.0 years.
 
PLAN
STATUS
 
The pension expense for 2002 was $3.0 million and $7.0 million for the qualified and nonqualified plans, respectively.
 
 
 
CHANGE
IN
BENEFIT
OBLIGATION
( 30, 2004)
MEASURED
AS
OF
SEPTEMBER
 
 
The minimum required contribution for the qualified plan in 2005 is estimated to be zero. The maximum deductible contribution is estimated at $70 million.
 
The allocation of the fair value of Northern Trust's total pension plan assets as of September 30, 2004 and 2003, and the target allocation, by asset category, are as follows:
 
 
Northern Trust employs a total return investment strategy approach whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long-term return of plan assets for a prudent level of risk. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. Assets held consist primarily of commingled funds that invest primarily in a diversified blend of publicly traded equities, fixed income and some private equity investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across U.S. and non-U.S. stocks as well as growth, value and small and large capitalizations. Other assets such as private equity and hedge funds are used judiciously to enhance long-term returns while improving portfolio diversification. Derivatives may be used to gain market exposure in an efficient and timely manner; however, derivatives may not be used to leverage the portfolio beyond the market value of the underlying investments. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies, and quarterly investment portfolio reviews.
 
Northern Trust employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return for plan assets. Historical markets and long-term historical relationships between equities, fixed income and other asset classes are studied using the widely-accepted capital market principle that assets with higher volatility generate a greater return over the long-run. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before long-term capital market assumptions are determined. The long-term portfolio return is established, giving proper consideration to diversification and rebalancing. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed to check for reasonability and appropriateness. Based on this approach and the plan's target asset allocation, the expected long-term rate of return on assets was set at 8.75%.
 
Total assets in the "Rabbi" Trust related to the nonqualified pension plan at December 31, 2004 and 2003 amounted to $47.9 million and $38.7 million, respectively.
 
A defined benefit and a defined contribution plan are maintained for the London Branch employees. At December 31, 2004, the fair value of assets and the projected benefit obligation of the defined benefit plan
 
 
 
totaled $27.6 million and $30.4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, the fair value of assets and the projected benefit obligation were $23.5 million and $26.1 million, respectively. Pension expense for 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $5.4 million, $4.5 million and $3.3 million, respectively.
 
The Corporation and its subsidiaries have a defined contribution Thrift-Incentive Plan covering substantially all employees. One half of the Corporation's matching contribution was contingent upon meeting a predefined earnings target for the year. The estimated contribution to this plan is charged to employee benefits and totaled $17.5 million in 2004, $14.5 million in 2003 and $16.3 million in 2002.
Thrift-Incentive Plan.
 
In 2004, 2003 and 2002, the corporate contribution to the ESOP was equal to approximately 3%, 1% and 2%, respectively, of an eligible employee's salary. Two-thirds of the 2004 contribution was based on Northern Trust exceeding predetermined performance objectives. ESOP compensation expense in 2004, 2003, and 2002 totaled $13.3 million, $6.1 million, and $9.9 million, respectively. Effective January 1, 2005, the ESOP was merged into the Thrift-Incentive Plan, with the ESOP shares separately maintained as the "Former ESOP Fund" of the Thrift-Incentive Plan. The Corporation's contribution under the Thrift-Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, will include a guaranteed matching component and a corporate performance-based component contingent upon meeting predetermined performance objectives.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).
 
Northern Trust maintains an unfunded postretirement health care plan. Employees retiring at age 55 or older under the provisions of The Northern Trust Company Pension Plan who have attained 15 years of service are eligible for postretirement health care coverage. Effective January 1, 2003, the cost of this benefit is no longer subsidized by Northern Trust for new employee hires or employees who were under age 40 at December 31, 2002. The provisions of this plan may be changed further at the discretion of Northern Trust, which also reserves the right to terminate these benefits at any time.
Other Postretirement Benefits.
 
The following tables set forth the plan status at December 31, the net periodic postretirement benefit cost of the domestic postretirement health care plan for 2004 and 2003 and the change in the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation during 2004 and 2003. The transition obligation established January 1, 1993 is being amortized to expense over a twenty-year period.
 
PLAN
STATUS
 
 
 
Postretirement health care expense for 2002 was $4.5 million.
 
The weighted average discount rate used in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 5.75% at December 31, 2004 and 6.00% at December 31, 2003. For measurement purposes, a 9.5% annual increase in the cost of covered health care benefits was assumed for 2004. This rate is assumed to decrease to 5.5% in 2008 and remain at that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption has an effect on the amounts reported. For example, increasing or decreasing the assumed health care trend rate by one percentage point in each year would have the following effect.
 
 
The "Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003" (the Act) expands Medicare coverage, primarily by adding a voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare-eligibles starting in 2006. The Act provides employers currently sponsoring prescription drug programs for Medicare-eligibles with a range of options for coordinating with the new government-sponsored prescription drug program to potentially reduce program costs. These options include supplementing the government program on a secondary payer basis or accepting a direct subsidy from the government to support a portion of the cost of the employer's program. Northern Trust expects that certain drug benefits offered under its plan will qualify for the subsidy.
 
As permitted by FSP 106-2, Northern Trust made a one-time election in the third quarter to account for the prescription drug subsidy retrospectively. This action resulted in a favorable impact on 2004 net periodic benefit expense for the medical post-retirement plan of $.2 million and on the Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation of $2.0 million.
 
A description of Northern Trust's stock-based compensation is presented below.
22. Stock-Based Compensation Plans
 
Effective April 16, 2002, the Corporation adopted the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the Plan) to replace the Northern Trust Corporation Amended 1992 Incentive Stock Plan (1992 Plan). The Plan is administered by the Compensation and Benefits Committee (Committee) of the Board of Directors. All employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and all directors of the Corporation are eligible to receive awards under the Plan. The Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, stock units and performance shares. The total number of shares of the Corporation's common stock authorized for issuance under the Plan is 22,000,000. As of December 31, 2004, shares available for future grant under the plan totaled 11,292,132. The 1992 Plan expired by its terms on April 30, 2002 and no awards may be granted under the 1992 Plan after that date.
2002 Stock Plan.
 
The following description applies to awards under the Plan and the 1992 Plan, as applicable.
 
Stock options consist of options to purchase common stock at purchase prices not less than 100% of the fair market value thereof on the date the option is granted. Options have a maximum ten-year life and generally vest and become exercisable in six months to four years after the date of grant. In addition, all options may become exercisable upon a "change of control" as defined in the Plan or the 1992 Plan. All options terminate at such time as determined by the Committee and as provided in the terms and conditions of the respective option grants.
Stock Options.
 
Stock or stock unit awards can be granted by the Committee to participants which entitle them to receive a payment in cash or Northern Trust Corporation common stock under the terms of the Plan or the 1992 Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate.
Stock and Stock Unit Awards.
 
Total expense applicable to stock and stock unit awards including dividend equivalents was $14.0 million in 2004, $14.7 million in 2003 and $13.4 million in 2002. Stock and stock unit grants totaled 284,661 in 2004, 242,777 in 2003 and 256,264 in 2002, with a weighted average grant-date fair value of $48.92, $32.68 and $50.92, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, restricted stock awards and stock units outstanding totaled 1,428,806 shares, of which 269,277 shares are fully vested with distribution deferred. These shares generally vest,
 
 
 
subject to continuing employment, over a period of one to nine years.
 
Under the performance share provisions, participants are entitled to have each award credited to an account maintained for them if established performance goals are achieved. Distribution of the award is then made after vesting. The last grant of performance shares was in 1998 and all shares were
Performance Shares.
vested as of December 31, 2003. Accordingly, there was no compensation expense for performance shares in 2004. Compensation expense for performance shares totaled $5.4 million in 2003 and $10.6 million in 2002.
 
A summary of the status of stock options under the Plan and the 1992 Plan at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and changes during the years then ended is presented in the table below.
 
The following is a summary of outstanding and exercisable options under the Plan and the 1992 Plan at December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
In January 2000, each non-employee director received a grant of 2,400 stock units under the 1992 Plan, with 800 stock units vesting on election or re-election as a director of the Corporation in each of the years 2000, 2001 and 2002. In January 2003, each non-employee director received a grant of 2,400 stock units under the Plan, with 800 units vesting on election or re-election as a director of the Corporation in each of the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. Directors may elect to defer the payment of their annual stock unit grant and cash-based compensation until termination of services as director. Amounts deferred are converted into stock units representing shares of common stock of the Corporation. Distributions of deferred stock units are made in stock. Distributions of the stock unit
Director Stock Awards.
account that relate to cash-based compensation are made in cash based on the fair value of the stock units at the time of distribution.
 
Compensation expense related to restricted shares granted in conjunction with an acquisition totaled $.2 million in 2003 and $2.0 million in 2002. There were no restricted shares outstanding as of December 31, 2004 or 2003.
Other Stock-Based Compensation Arrangements.
 
Various incentive plans provide for cash incentives and bonuses to selected employees based upon accomplishment of corporate net income objectives, business unit goals and individual performance. The estimated contributions to
23. Cash-Based Compensation Plans
 
 
 
these plans are charged to compensation expense and totaled $113.3 million in 2004, $89.6 million in 2003 and $84.8 million in 2002.
 
In the normal course of business, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and threatened legal actions, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, regulatory matters, and challenges from tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. In certain of these actions and proceedings, claims for substantial monetary damages or adjustments to recorded tax liabilities are asserted. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Corporation cannot state what the eventual outcome of these matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, management does not believe that judgments or settlements, if any, arising from pending or threatened legal actions, regulatory matters or challenges from tax authorities, either individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Corporation, although they could have a material effect on operating results for a particular period.
24. Contingent Liabilities
 
In 2003, a putative class action was filed against Northern Trust Bank of California N.A. seeking class-wide reimbursement, with interest and punitive damages, for approximately 300 trust accounts that were allegedly charged fees in excess of fee provisions in the underlying trust documents. Virtually all of the trust accounts in the putative class were purchased in 1992 by the California bank from Trust Services of America, Inc., then a subsidiary of CalFed. On August 10, 2004, the Corporation announced that the California bank had entered into a settlement in principle to resolve the putative class action. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the court preliminarily approved the settlement. The final settlement approval hearing is scheduled for March 2005. Upon final approval of the settlement, the California bank will pay approximately $21 million. The settlement, including estimated associated costs, resulted in a third quarter 2004 pre-tax charge of $17.0 million.
 
One subsidiary of the Corporation was named as a defendant in several Enron-related class action suits that were consolidated under a single complaint in the Federal District Court for the Southern District of Texas
(Houston). Individual participants in the employee pension benefit plans sponsored by Enron Corp. sued various corporate entities and individuals, including The Northern Trust Company (Bank) in its capacity as the former directed trustee of the Enron Corp. Savings Plan and former service-provider for the Enron Corp. Employee Stock Ownership Plan. The lawsuit makes claims, , for breach of fiduciary duty to the plan participants, and seeks equitable relief and monetary damages in an unspecified amount against the defendants. On September 30, 2003, the court denied the Bank's motion to dismiss the complaint as a matter of law. In an Amended Consolidated Complaint filed on January 2, 2004, plaintiffs continue to assert claims against the Bank and other defendants under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, seeking a finding that defendants are liable to restore to the benefit plans and the plaintiffs hundreds of millions of dollars of losses allegedly caused by defendants' alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. The trial date currently is scheduled for fall 2006. The Corporation and the Bank will continue to defend this action vigorously. In June 2003, after conducting an extensive investigation, which included the Bank and NTRC, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) filed a civil action against numerous parties charging that they violated their obligations to the Enron plan participants. The DOL did not name any Northern Trust entity or employee as a defendant in its suit. In another Enron-related matter, in November and December 2003, Enron as debtor-in-possession filed two lawsuits seeking to recover for its bankruptcy estate more than $1 billion it paid in the fall of 2001 to buy back its commercial paper. Enron claims that the money it paid to buy back its commercial paper approximately six weeks prior to its bankruptcy filing represented "preference" payments and "fraudulent transfers" that can be reversed with the money going back to Enron. Since the Bank sold approximately $197 million of this Enron commercial paper that it held for some of its clients, the Bank and those clients are among scores of defendants named in these complaints. The Corporation and the Bank will defend these actions vigorously.
inter alia
 
The IRS has challenged the Corporation's tax position related to certain investments made in structured leasing transactions. The Corporation believes that its tax position is appropriate based on its interpretation of the tax regulations and case law governing these trans - -
 
 
 
actions; a court or other judicial authority, however, could disagree. The Corporation will continue to defend its position vigorously.
 
Northern Trust is a party to various derivative financial instruments that are used in the normal course of business as part of its asset/liability management activities; to meet the risk management needs of its clients; and as part of its trading activity for its own account. These instruments include foreign exchange contracts and various interest and credit risk management instruments.
25. Derivative Financial Instruments
 
The major risk associated with these instruments is that interest or foreign exchange rates could change in an unanticipated manner, resulting in higher interest costs or a loss in the underlying value of the instrument. These risks are mitigated by establishing limits for risk management positions, monitoring the level of actual positions taken against such established limits, monitoring the level of any interest rate sensitivity gaps created by such positions, and using hedging techniques. When establishing position limits, market liquidity and volatility, as well as experience in each market, are all taken into account.
 
The estimated credit risk associated with these instruments relates to the failure of the counterparty to pay based on the contractual terms of the agreement, and is generally limited to the gross unrealized market value gains on these instruments. The amount of credit risk will increase or decrease during the lives of the instruments as interest or foreign exchange rates fluctuate. This risk is controlled by limiting such activity to an approved list of counterparties and by subjecting such activity to the same credit and quality controls as are followed in lending and investment activities.
 
are agreements to exchange specific amounts of currencies at a future date, at a specified rate of exchange. Foreign exchange contracts are entered into primarily to meet the foreign exchange risk management needs of clients. Foreign exchange contracts are also used for trading purposes and asset/liability management.
Foreign Exchange Contracts
 
involve the exchange of fixed and floating rate interest payment obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Interest Rate Swap Contracts
 
are contracts entered into by Northern Trust with an external third party where the external party assumes credit risk exposure related to a specific commercial loan or commitment issued by
Credit Default Swaps
Northern Trust by agreeing to pay Northern Trust in the event of bankruptcy, failure to pay, or restructuring. In return, Northern Trust agrees to pay a fee to the third party to transfer the related credit default risk.
 
are agreements that enable clients to transfer, modify or reduce their interest rate risk. As a seller of interest rate protection, Northern Trust receives a fee at the outset of the agreement and then assumes the risk of an unfavorable change in interest rates. Northern Trust offsets this assumed interest rate risk by entering into an offsetting position with an outside counterparty. Northern Trust also purchases interest rate protection contracts for asset/liability management.
Interest Rate Protection Contracts
 
grant the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell at a specified price, a stated number of units of an underlying financial instrument, at a future date.
Exchange-Traded Option Contracts
 
The following table shows the contractual/notional amounts of risk management instruments. The notional amounts of risk management instruments do not represent credit risk, and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. They are used merely to express the volume of the activity. Credit risk is limited to the positive market value of the derivative financial instrument, which is significantly less than the notional amount, and is shown as the asset amounts in the Fair Values of Financial Instruments table in Note 29.
 
RISK
MANAGEMENT
INSTRUMENTS
 
Northern Trust may designate certain derivatives as hedges of specific fixed rate assets or liabilities on its balance sheet. The risk management policy for such hedges is to reduce or eliminate the exposure to changes in the value of the
Asset/Liability Management Instruments.
Fair Value Hedge Designations.
 
 
 
hedged assets or liabilities due to a specified risk. As of December 31, 2004, certain interest rate swaps were designated and qualified as fair value hedges against changes in LIBOR interest rates for specific fixed rate agency and asset-backed securities. There was no ineffectiveness in fair value hedges through December 31, 2004.
 
Certain derivatives may be designated as hedges against exposure to variability in expected future cash flows attributable to particular risks, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange or interest rates. Northern Trust currently uses cash flow hedges to reduce or eliminate the exposure to changes in foreign exchange and LIBOR interest rates. As of December 31, 2004, certain forward foreign exchange contracts were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges against changes in certain forecasted foreign denominated revenue and expenditure transactions. It is estimated that a net gain of $.5 million will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. The maximum length of time over which these hedges will exist is 15 months. Cash flow ineffectiveness was negligible through December 31, 2004.
Cash Flow Hedge Designations.
 
Northern Trust has designated specific forward foreign currency contracts as hedges against foreign currency exposure for net investments in foreign affiliates. For the year ended December 31, 2004, a net loss of $.9 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Net Investment Hedge Designations.
 
Forward foreign exchange contracts were used to reduce exposure to fluctuations in the dollar value of capital investments in foreign subsidiaries and from foreign currency assets and obligations. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on such contracts are recognized as a component of other operating income. Credit default swaps are used to mitigate exposure to a borrower's inability to pay on their loan obligation or other credit related event. Credit default swaps are adjusted to their fair market value each quarter with gains or losses recorded as adjustments to income for that period.
Other Derivatives not Designated as Hedges.
 
Net revenue associated with client and trading-related interest rate derivative financial instruments totaled $.5 million, $1.7 million and $.1 million during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The majority of these revenues are related to interest rate swaps and interest rate protection agreements.
Client and Trading-Related Derivative Financial Instruments.
 
Northern Trust, in the normal course of business, enters into various types of commitments and issues letters of credit to meet the liquidity and credit enhancement needs of its clients. Credit risk is the principal risk associated with these instruments. The contractual amounts of these instruments represent the credit risk should the instrument be fully drawn upon and the client defaults. To control the credit risk associated with entering into commitments and issuing letters of credit, Northern Trust subjects such activities to the same credit quality and monitoring controls as its lending activities.
26. Off-Balance Sheet Financial InstrumentsCommitments and Letters of Credit.
 
Commitments and letters of credit consist of the following:
 
generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Since a significant portion of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amount does not necessarily represent future loans or liquidity requirements.
Legally Binding Commitments to Extend Credit
 
obligate Northern Trust, in the event of default by the counterparty, to reimburse the holder of the acceptance.
Bankers Acceptances
 
are instruments issued by Northern Trust on behalf of its clients that authorize a third party (the beneficiary) to draw drafts up to a stipulated amount under the specified terms and conditions of the agreement. Commercial letters of credit are issued primarily to facilitate international trade.
Commercial Letters of Credit
 
obligate Northern Trust to meet certain financial obligations of its clients, if, under the contractual terms of the agreement, the clients are unable to do so. These instruments are primarily issued to support public and private financial commitments, including commercial paper, bond financing, initial margin requirements on futures exchanges and similar transactions. Certain standby letters of credit have been secured with cash deposits or participated to others. Northern Trust is obligated to meet the entire financial obligation of these agreements and in certain cases is able to recover the amounts paid through recourse against cash deposits or other participants. Northern Trust's recorded liability for standby letters of credit, reflecting the obligation it has undertaken and measured as the amount of unamortized fees on these instruments, totaled $4.5 million and $4.4 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Standby Letters of Credit
 
 
 
The following table shows the contractual amounts of commitments and letters of credit.
 
COMMITMENTS
AND
LETTERS
OF
CREDIT
*These amounts exclude $496.5 million and $522.2 million of commitments participated to others at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
**These amounts include $294.9 million and $271.1 million of standby letters of credit secured by cash deposits or participated to others as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The weighted average maturity of standby letters of credit was 19 months at December 31, 2004 and 20 months at December 31, 2003.
 
As part of securities custody activities and at the direction of trust clients, Northern Trust lends securities owned by clients to borrowers who are reviewed and approved by the Credit Policy Credit Approval Committee. In connection with these activities, Northern Trust has issued certain indemnifications against loss resulting from the bankruptcy of the borrower of securities. The borrowing party is required to fully collateralize securities received with cash, marketable securities, or irrevocable standby letters of credit. As securities are loaned, collateral is maintained at a minimum of 100 percent of the fair value of the securities plus accrued interest, with revaluation of the collateral on a daily basis. The amount of securities loaned as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 subject to indemnification was $112.7 billion and $74.0 billion, respectively. Because of the borrower's requirement to fully collateralize securities borrowed, management believes that the exposure to credit loss from this activity is remote.
Other Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments.
 
The Bank is a participating member of various cash, securities and foreign exchange clearing and settlement organizations such as The Depository Trust Company in New York. It participates in these organizations on behalf of its clients and on its own behalf as a result of its own investment and trading activities. A wide variety of cash and securities transactions are settled through these organizations, including those involving obligations of states and political subdivisions, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, dollar placements and securities issued by the Government National Mortgage Association.
 
As a result of its participation in cash, securities and foreign exchange clearing and settlement organizations, the Bank could be responsible for a pro rata share of certain credit-related losses arising out of the clearing activities. The method in which such losses would be shared by the clearing members is stipulated in each clearing organization's membership agreement. Credit exposure related to these agreements varies from day to day, primarily as a result of fluctuations in the volume of transactions cleared through the organizations. The estimated credit exposure at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $64 million and $67 million, respectively, based on the membership agreements and clearing volume for those days. Controls related to these clearing transactions are closely monitored to protect the assets of Northern Trust and its clients.
 
Certain of Northern Trust's subsidiaries, as required or permitted by law, pledge assets to secure public and trust deposits, repurchase agreements and for other purposes. On December 31, 2004, securities and loans totaling $11.8 billion ($5.3 billion of U.S. Government and government sponsored agency securities, $843.0 million of obligations of states and political subdivisions and $5.7 billion of loans and other securities), were pledged. Collateral required for these purposes totaled $6.7 billion. Included in the total pledged assets is the fair value of $2.8 billion of available for sale securities which were pledged as collateral for agreements to repurchase securities sold transactions. The secured parties to these transactions have the right to repledge or sell these securities.
27. Pledged and Restricted Assets
 
Northern Trust is permitted to repledge or sell collateral accepted from agreements to resell securities purchased transactions. The total fair value of accepted collateral as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $592.5 million and $407.2 million, respectively. There was no repledged collateral as of December 31, 2004. The fair value of repledged collateral was $50.4 million as of December 31, 2003. Repledged collateral was used in other agreements to repurchase securities sold transactions.
 
Deposits maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank to meet reserve requirements averaged $293.8 million in 2004 and $605.0 million in 2003.
 
Provisions of state and federal banking laws restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid to the Corporation by its banking subsidiaries. Under applicable state and federal laws, no dividends may be paid in an amount greater than the net profits (as defined) then on hand, subject to other applicable provisions of law. In addition, prior approval from the relevant federal bank - -
28. Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances
 
 
 
ing regulator is required if dividends declared by any of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries in any calendar year will exceed its net profits for that year, combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years. Based on these regulations, the Corporation's banking subsidiaries, without regulatory approval, could declare dividends during 2005 equal to their 2005 eligible net profits (as defined) plus $296.9 million. The ability of each banking subsidiary to pay dividends to the Corporation may be further restricted as a result of regulatory policies and guidelines relating to dividend payments and capital adequacy.
 
State and federal laws limit the transfer of funds by a banking subsidiary to the Corporation and certain of its affiliates in the form of loans or extensions of credit, investments or purchases of assets. Transfers of this kind to the Corporation or a nonbanking subsidiary by a banking subsidiary are each limited to 10% of the banking subsidiary's capital and surplus with respect to each affiliate and to 20% in the aggregate, and are also subject to certain collateral requirements. These transactions, as well as other transactions between a banking subsidiary and the Corporation or its affiliates, must also be on terms substantially the same as, or at least as favorable as, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms, or under circumstances, including credit standards, that would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.
 
SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments," requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments. Considerable judgment is required to interpret market data when computing estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts Northern Trust could have realized in a market exchange.
29. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
The information provided below should not be interpreted as an estimate of the fair value of Northern Trust since the disclosures, in accordance with SFAS No. 107, exclude the values of nonfinancial assets and liabilities, as well as a wide range of franchise, relationship, and intangible values, which are integral to a full assessment of the Corporation's consolidated financial position.
 
The use of different assumptions and/or estimation methods may have a material effect on the computation of estimated fair values. Therefore, comparisons between Northern Trust's disclosures and those of other financial institutions may not be meaningful.
 
 
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating the fair values of the financial instruments:
 
Fair values of securities were based on quoted market values, when available. If quoted market values were not available, fair values were based on quoted market values for comparable instruments.
Securities.
 
The fair values of one-to-four family residential mortgages were based on quoted market prices of similar loans sold, adjusted for differences in loan characteristics. The fair values of the remainder of the loan portfolio were estimated using a discounted cash flow method in which the discount rate used was the rate at which Northern Trust would have originated the loan had it been originated as of the financial statement date, giving effect to current economic conditions on loan collectibility.
Loans (not including lease financing receivables).
 
The fair values of these instruments were estimated using a discounted cash flow method that incorporated market interest rates.
Savings Certificates, Other Time, Foreign Offices Time Deposits and Other Borrowings.
 
Fair values were based on quoted market prices, when available. If quoted market prices were not available, fair values were based on quoted market prices for comparable instruments.
Senior Notes, Subordinated Debt and Floating Rate Capital Debt.
 
The fair values of financial guarantees and loan commitments represent the amount of unamortized fees on these instruments.
Financial Guarantees and Loan Commitments.
 
The fair values of derivative instruments were estimated using market prices, pricing models, or quoted market prices of financial instruments with similar characteristics.
Derivative Financial Instruments.
 
Due to their short maturity, the respective carrying values of certain financial instruments approximated their fair values. These financial instruments include cash and due from banks; money market assets; customers' acceptance liability; trust security settlement receivables; federal funds purchased; securities sold under agreements to repurchase; commercial paper; certain other borrowings; and liability on acceptances.
Financial Instruments Valued at Carrying Value.
 
The fair values required to be disclosed for demand, savings, and money market deposits pursuant to SFAS No. 107 must equal the amounts disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet, even though such deposits are typically priced at a premium in banking industry consolidations.
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the fair values of financial instruments.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments.
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the consolidated results of operations of Northern Trust and its business units.
30. Business Units and Related Information
 
RESULTS
OF
OPERATIONS
 
* Stated on a fully taxable equivalent basis (FTE). The consolidated figures include $54.4 million, $52.4 million and $48.7 million of FTE adjustment for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to 2003 and 2002 financial information to conform to the current year's presentation.
 
Northern Trust, under Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William A. Osborn, is organized around its two principal client-focused business units, C&IS and PFS. The C&IS business unit provides asset administration, asset management and related services worldwide to corporate and public entity retirement funds, foundation and endowment clients, fund managers, insurance companies and government funds; a full range of commercial banking services, including treasury management, to large domestic corporations and financial institutions (domestic and international); and foreign exchange services for global custody clients and Northern Trust's own account. The PFS business unit provides personal trust, custody and investment management services, individual retirement accounts, guardianship and estate administration, qualified retirement plans, banking (including private banking), personal lending, and residential real estate mortgage lending, and also provides commercial banking services to small/mid-sized businesses. A third business unit, NTGI, provides a broad range of investment management and related services and other products to domestic and international clients of C&IS and PFS through various subsidiaries of the Corporation. Northern Trust's operating and systems support, including the processing and product management activities of C&IS, PFS and NTGI, are provided by a fourth business unit, WWOT. Each of these four business units has a president who reports to Mr. Osborn. For financial management reporting purposes, the operations of NTGI and WWOT are allocated to C&IS and PFS. Mr. Osborn has been identified as the chief operating decision maker because he has final authority over resource allocation decisions and performance assessment.
 
Business unit results are presented in order to promote a greater understanding of their financial performance. The information, presented on an internal management-reporting basis, is derived from internal accounting systems that support the strategic objectives and management structure. Management has developed accounting systems to allocate revenue and expenses related to each business unit, as well as certain corporate support services, worldwide operations and systems development expenses. The management reporting systems also incorporate processes for allocating assets, liabilities and the applicable interest income and expense. Tier 1 and tier 2 capital are allocated based on the federal risk-based capital guidelines at a level that is consistent with Northern Trust's consolidated capital ratios, coupled with management's judgment of the operational risks inherent in the business. Allocations of capital and certain corporate expenses may not be representative of levels that would be required if the units were independent entities. The accounting policies used for management reporting are the same as those described in Note 1, "Accounting Policies." Transfers of income and expense items are recorded at cost; there is no intercompany profit or loss on sales or transfers between business units. Northern Trust's presentations are not necessarily consistent with similar information for other financial institutions. For management reporting purposes, certain corporate income and expense items are not allocated to the business units and are presented as part of "Treasury and Other." These items include the impact of long-term debt, preferred equity, holding company investments, and certain corporate operating expenses.
 
The operations of Northern Trust are managed on a business unit basis and include components of both domestic and foreign source income and assets. Foreign source income and assets are not separately identified in its internal management reporting system. However, Northern Trust is required to disclose foreign activities based on the domicile of the customer. Due to the complex and integrated nature of its foreign and domestic activities, it is impossible to segregate with precision revenues, expenses and assets between its U.S. and foreign-domiciled customers. Therefore, certain subjective estimates and assumptions have been made to allocate revenues, expenses and assets between domestic and international operations as described below.
International Activities.
 
Northern Trust's international activities are centered in the global custody, treasury activities, foreign exchange, investment management and commercial banking businesses of the Bank, three foreign bank branches, a UK incorporated bank subsidiary, one Edge Act subsidiary, foreign subsidiaries located in Canada, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan and the UK, Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc., and Northern Trust Bank of Florida N.A. Net income from international operations includes the direct net income contributions of foreign branches, foreign subsidiaries and the Edge Act subsidiary. The Bank and Northern Trust Bank of Florida N.A. international profit contributions reflect direct salary and other expenses of the business units, plus expense allocations for interest, occupancy, overhead and the provision for credit losses. For purposes of this disclosure, all foreign exchange profits have been allocated to international operations. Interest expense is allocated to international operations based on specifically matched or pooled funding. Allocations of indirect noninterest expenses related to international activities are not significant but, when made, are based on various methods such as time, space and number of employees.
 
The table below summarizes international performance based on the domicile of the primary obligor without regard to guarantors or the location of collateral.
 
DISTRIBUTION
OF
TOTAL
ASSETS
AND
OPERATING
PERFORMANCE
 
 
* Operating Income is comprised of net interest income and noninterest income.
 
Northern Trust and its subsidiary banks are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal bank regulatory authorities. Under these requirements, banks must maintain specific ratios of total and tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and of tier 1 capital to average quarterly assets in order to be classified as "well capitalized." The regulatory capital requirements impose certain restrictions upon banks that meet minimum capital requirements but are not "well capitalized" and obligate the federal bank regulatory authorities to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to banks that do
31. Regulatory Capital Requirements
 
 
 
not maintain such minimum ratios. Such prompt corrective action could have a direct material effect on a bank's financial statements.
 
As of December 31, 2004, each of Northern's subsidiary banks had capital ratios above the level required for classification as a "well capitalized" institution and had not received any regulatory notification of a lower classification. There are no conditions or events since
that date that management believes have adversely affected the capital categorization of any subsidiary bank for these purposes.
 
The table below summarizes the risk-based capital amounts and ratios for Northern Trust and for each of its subsidiary banks whose net income for 2004 exceeded 10% of the consolidated total.
 
 
The bank regulatory authorities of several nations, individually and through the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), are considering changes to the risk-based capital adequacy framework that could affect the capital guidelines applicable to financial holding companies and banks. The Basel Committee published the final language of the new Basel Capital Accord (BCA) in June, 2004. Implementation of the BCA capital adequacy framework in the United States is
scheduled to take place by year-end 2007. U.S. regulatory agencies have issued draft language for the rules related to implementation of the BCA, and are expected to issue final rules in 2006. The Corporation is monitoring the status and progress of the proposed rules and has over several years been engaged in preparing to qualify for the approaches to calculating minimum regulatory capital under the BCA that U.S. regulators have proposed to adopt.
 
 
 
Condensed financial information is presented below. Investments in wholly-owned subsidiaries are carried on the equity method of accounting.
32. Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation only)
 
CONDENSED
BALANCE
SHEET
 
CONDENSED
STATEMENT
OF
INCOME
 
 
 
CONDENSED
STATEMENT
OF
CASH
FLOWS
 
On November 22, 2004, Northern Trust executed a definitive agreement with Baring Asset Management Holdings Limited and its parent, ING Group N.V., (Netherlands) to acquire their Financial Services Group (FSG) for approximately 260 million British pounds Sterling (approximately $500 million based on an exchange rate of 1.93 as of December 31, 2004). The purchase price is subject to adjustment 120 days post closing to reflect changes in net assets, revenues, and other stipulations. FSG is a fund services group that offers fund administration, cus
33. Definitive Agreement
tody, and trust services, and had approximately $68 billion in funds under administration, $31 billion in custody and $34 billion in trust assets based on market values as of December 31, 2004. In connection with the acquisition, Northern Trust entered into a multi-year agreement to continue to provide services to Baring Asset Management, which currently represents approximately 20% of the revenues of FSG. The agreement is subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, and is expected to close on or around March 31, 2005.
 
 
 
:
TO
THE
STOCKHOLDERS
AND
BOARD
OF
DIRECTORS
OF
NORTHERN
TRUST
CORPORATION
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Northern Trust Corporation and subsidiaries (Northern Trust) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Northern Trust's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Northern Trust Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with generally accepted U.S. accounting principles.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Northern Trust's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in "Internal ControlIntegrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated February 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
 
//    KPMG LLP
S
 
,
CHICAGO
ILLINOIS
14, 2005
FEBRUARY
 
 


