FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20050218100432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On February 15, 2005, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") approved grants of stock options and stock units to the following executive officers of the Corporation under the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "2002 Stock Plan"), as set forth below:
 
 
On February 15, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Corporation approved a grant of stock units under the 2002 Stock Plan to the non-employee directors of the Corporation equal in value to (i) $60,000 less (ii) the value of 800 Stock Units from an earlier grant that will vest in 2005, with the value of the Stock Units determined in each case by the average of the high and low sale prices of the Corporation's common stock on the date of the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
The terms and conditions of stock awards under the 2002 Stock Plan, including the grants disclosed herein, are set forth in the previously filed 2002 Stock Plan and, as applicable, the forms of the stock option agreement, stock award agreement, stock unit agreement, addendum to award agreement, non-solicitation agreement and director stock agreement under the 2002 Stock Plan, which are filed herewith as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
. Your stock option grant is subject to the provisions of the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "Plan") and the stock option notice (the "Option Notice"). Your stock option grant is also subject to the "Addendum to Award Agreements under the Plan," which Addendum shall be deemed to be an integral part of these Terms and Conditions. The Option Notice and these Terms and Conditions constitute the "Stock Option Agreement" as defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the information in the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan, the Plan will govern. These Terms and Conditions apply to non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options issued under the Plan.
1.
Governing Documents
 
. The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") may amend the terms of the Plan or the Stock Option Agreement at any time, except that any amendment that adversely affects your rights in any material way requires your written consent.
2.
Amendments
 
. Your stock option is exercisable from and after the vesting date(s) set forth on the Option Notice until the ten (10)-year anniversary of the date the option was granted (the "Expiration Date"), except as provided below:
3.
Exercise Limitations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
five (5) years following the effective date of your retirement and (b) the Expiration Date. You should be aware that an unexercised incentive stock option automatically converts into a non-qualified stock option three (3) months after termination of employment due to retirement. The terms "retire" and "retirement" mean retirement occurring by reason of your having qualified for a Normal, Early, or Postponed Retirement Pension under The Northern Trust Company Pension Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
. If, after your termination of employment, you are re-employed by the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries, upon your return you will be considered a new hire. Options that previously expired upon your termination of employment remain expired and are not reinstated.
4.
Re-Employment
 
.
5.
Exercise of Options
 
 
 
. Your stock option is not transferable other than as provided in these Terms and Conditions, except that you, with the prior approval of the Committee, may transfer a non-qualified stock option (but not an incentive stock option) under certain circumstances and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and such limits as the Committee may establish, and the transferee shall remain subject to all the terms and conditions applicable to the non-qualified stock option prior to the transfer. Your stock option (whether a non-qualified stock option or an incentive stock option) is exercisable, during your lifetime, only by you or your personal representative. Additional written information regarding the mechanics and consequences of transferring a non-qualified stock option is available from the Corporate Secretary. You should request and review this information prior to making a request to transfer a non-qualified stock option.
6.
Nontransferability
 
. Delivery of shares of common stock upon exercise of your stock option is subject to the withholding of all applicable taxes. At your election, any withholding tax obligation shall be satisfied by the Corporation's withholding of a portion of the shares otherwise distributable to you at a rate acceptable to the Corporation or by your delivery of previously acquired shares that are "mature" (meaning that the shares have been held by you for more than six months) to the Corporation, up to the maximum federal rate. Payment of federal income taxes may be accomplished through a combination of withholding of shares and delivery of previously acquired shares that are "mature." If at any time the Corporation shall be advised by its counsel that the shares deliverable upon an exercise of the option must be accompanied or preceded by a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or any State securities law, or that the Corporation must comply with the rules of any securities exchange on which its common stock is traded, the Corporation will use its reasonable best efforts to deliver such prospectus and to comply with the rules of such securities exchange not later than a reasonable time following the exercise of the option, but the delivery of shares by the Corporation may be deferred until such prospectus is available or the Corporation complies with the rules of such securities exchange. As an option holder, you have no interest in the shares covered by the option until the shares are actually issued.
7.
Delivery of Shares
 
. The option grant shall not be deemed to obligate the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries to continue your employment for any particular period, nor is employment guaranteed for the length of the vesting schedule set forth in the Option Notice.
8.
No Contract of Employment
 
. Please refer to the "Summary Description of the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan" for a description of the U.S. federal income tax consequences affecting non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options.
9.
Taxes
 
. All questions pertaining to the validity, construction and administration of the Plan and the stock option grants to which the Option Notice and these Terms and Conditions apply shall be determined in conformity with the laws of the State of Illinois, without regard to the conflict of law provisions of any state.
10.
Applicable Law
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
This Agreement is entered into as of the day of , 200, between Northern Trust Corporation ("Northern") and ("Participant").
    
                    
    
                    
 
The Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan ("Plan") provides, in Section 9 of the Plan, for the granting of Stock Awards to participating employees of Northern or its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Corporation"), as approved by the Compensation and Benefits Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Northern.
 
In exercise of its discretion under the Plan, the Committee has determined that the Participant should participate in the Plan and receive a Stock Award under Section 9 of the Plan, and, accordingly, Northern and the Participant hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
terminates for any reason other than as set forth above in this Paragraph 5, the Participant's Stock Award shares that have not yet vested shall be forfeited and revert to Northern on such termination date. Northern shall have no further obligation to the Participant under this Agreement following the Participant's forfeiture of the Stock Award Shares.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Retirement" means retirement occurring by reason of the Participant having qualified for Normal, or Postponed Retirement under The Northern Trust Company Pension Plan.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means a disability that continues for a period of 12 months or more as defined by Northern Trust's Managed Disability Program.
 
 
In the event of the Participant's death, the Participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries shall become entitled to the distribution of the Participant's Stock Award Shares and the portion of the Account attributable to such Stock Award Shares on the Applicable Date immediately after the Participant's death, and such distribution shall be made (i) as soon as practicable thereafter or on such other date designated by the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, but no later than two years after the death of the Participant, and (ii) to such beneficiary or beneficiaries and in such proportions as the Participant may designate in writing, and in the absence of a designation, to the following persons in the order indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of the Participant's Retirement or Disability, the Participant shall become entitled to the distribution of the Participant's Stock Award Shares and the portion of the Account attributable to such Stock Award Shares Account on the Applicable Date immediately after the Participant's Retirement or Disability.
 
No distribution shall be made prior to the first date when the Stock Award Shares and the portion of the Account attributable to such Shares may be distributed to the Participant without penalty or forfeiture under federal or state laws or regulations governing short-swing trading of securities. In determining whether a distribution would result in such a penalty or forfeiture, Northern may rely upon information reasonably available to it or upon representations of the Participant's legal or personal representative.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Applicable Date" means the first trading day following the corresponding vesting date under Paragraph 5 on which Northern's trading blackout is not in effect for the Participant, or such other date as the Committee or the Executive Vice President of Human Resources may determine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Participant and Northern Trust Corporation by its duly authorized officer have signed this Agreement the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
Your stock award will vest according to the following schedule:
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
This Agreement is entered into as of the day of , 200, between Northern Trust Corporation ("Northern") and ("Participant").
    
                    
    
                    
 
The Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan ("Plan") provides, in Section 10 of the Plan, for the awarding of Stock Units to participating employees of Northern or its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Corporation"), as approved by the Compensation and Benefits Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Northern.
 
In the exercise of its discretion under the Plan, the Committee has determined that the Participant should participate in the Plan and receive an award of Stock Units under Section 10 of the Plan, and, accordingly, Northern and the Participant hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
older on the date of such termination and (b) the Participant has not violated the non-competition provision of Paragraph 7 of this Agreement during the vesting period ("Vesting Period"), (iii) earlier full vesting in the event of a Change in Control of Northern (as defined in the Plan), or (iv) a determination by the Committee in its sole discretion that earlier prorated or full vesting is appropriate. If the Participant's employment with the Corporation terminates for any reason other than as set forth above in this Paragraph 5, the Stock Units in the Participant's Stock Unit Account that have not yet vested shall be forfeited and revert to Northern on such termination date, and Northern shall have no further obligation after such date to pay dividend equivalents pursuant to Paragraph 3 of this Agreement. Northern shall have no further obligation to the Participant under this Agreement following the Participant's forfeiture of Stock Units.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Retirement" means retirement occurring by reason of the Participant having qualified for a Normal, Early, or Postponed Retirement under The Northern Trust Company Pension Plan.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means a disability that continues for a period of 12 months or more as defined by Northern Trust's Managed Disability Program.
 
 
In the event of the Participant's death, the Participant's beneficiary shall become entitled to the distribution of the Participant's Stock Units on the Applicable Date immediately after the Participant's death, and such distribution shall be made (i) as soon as practicable thereafter or on such other date designated by the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, but no later than two years after the death of the Participant, and (ii) to such beneficiary and in such proportions as the Participant may designate in writing, and in the absence of a designation, to the following persons in the order indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of the Participant's Retirement or Disability, the Participant shall become entitled to the distribution of the Participant's Stock Units on the Applicable Date immediately after the Participant's Retirement or Disability.
 
Stock Units shall be distributed only in shares of Common Stock so that, pursuant to Paragraph 1 of this Agreement and this Paragraph 6, a Participant shall be entitled to receive one share of Common Stock for each Stock Unit in the Participant's Stock Unit
 
Account. No distribution shall be made prior to the first date that shares of Common Stock may be distributed to the Participant without penalty or forfeiture under federal or state laws or regulations governing short-swing trading of securities. In determining whether a distribution would result in such a penalty or forfeiture, Northern may rely upon information reasonably available to it or upon representations of the Participant's legal or personal representative.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Applicable Date" with respect to a given year means the first trading day of the fourth quarter of that year on which Northern's trading blackout is not in effect for the Participant, or such other date as the Committee or the Executive Vice President of Human Resources may determine.
 
 
 
If, prior to the end of the Vesting Period, a Participant's employment with the Corporation has terminated and (i) the Participant is 55 years or older on the date of such termination and (ii) the Participant has not violated the non-competition provision of Paragraph 7 of this Agreement during the Vesting Period, the Participant shall have credited, and be deemed vested in, on the vesting date of the award, a number of Stock Units as determined by multiplying the number of Stock Units which would have been
 
distributable to the Participant if the Participant had been employed by the Corporation for the full Vesting Period, by the ratio of the number of full calendar months of the Participant's actual employment by the Corporation under this Agreement during the Vesting Period to the number of full calendar months in the Vesting Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Participant and Northern Trust Corporation by its duly authorized officer have signed this Agreement the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
Your Stock Units will vest according to the following schedule:
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
I.
Applicability
 
This Addendum applies to you, and is in addition to, and not in limitation of, the terms and provisions set forth in the Award Agreement to which it is attached. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Addendum shall have the meanings given to them under the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "Plan").
 
II.
Additional Agreements
 
In consideration for, and as a condition to, your receipt of the Award under the Plan identified on the Award Agreement to which this Addendum is attached:
 
A. You agree to the terms of and have signed the "Non-Solicitation Agreement."
 
B. You agree and acknowledge that, in addition to any other remedies available to the Corporation or its Subsidiaries, your failure to comply with Section [2, 3, 4, 5 and 6] of the "Non-Solicitation Agreement" shall entitle the Corporation, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, to (1) cancel and terminate all of your unexercised, unexpired, unpaid or deferred Awards (whether vested or unvested) under the Plan, and (2) rescind any exercise, payment or delivery under an Award occurring within twelve (12) months prior to, or at any time following, the date of your termination of employment for any reason (including but not limited to termination of employment due to retirement or disability). Upon any such rescission, (a) you shall immediately pay to the Corporation the amount of any gain realized or payment received, and (b) you shall immediately forfeit to the Corporation any shares of the Corporation's common stock received, in each case as a result of the rescinded exercise, payment or delivery under an Award, in such manner and on such terms and conditions as the Committee shall require, and the Corporation shall be entitled, as permitted by applicable law, to deduct from any amounts the Corporation owes you from time to time the amount of any such gain realized or payment received. In the case of a Stock Option, the "gain realized" shall be the excess of the fair market value of the Corporation's common stock on the date of exercise over the option exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares purchased. In the case of a Stock Unit, a Stock Award or a Performance Share, the "gain realized" shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
In consideration of my employment with The Northern Trust Company and any affiliated companies by which I become employed ("Company"), I agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accepted and agreed as provided above:
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
This Agreement is entered into as of the day of , 200, between Northern Trust Corporation ("Northern") and ("Participant").
    
            
    
                    
 
The Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan ("Plan") provides in Section 10 of the Plan for the awarding of stock units ("Stock Units") to participants, who may include directors of Northern who are not employees of the Corporation or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Corporation"), as approved by the Compensation and Benefits Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Northern.
 
In the exercise of its discretion under the Plan, the Committee has determined that the Participant should participate in the Plan and receive an award of Stock Units under Section 10 of the Plan, and, accordingly, Northern and the Participant hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Participant's service on the Board of Directors of Northern shall terminate by reason of death, or if the Participant shall die after becoming entitled to distribution hereunder, but prior to receipt of the entire distribution, all cash (as provided in Paragraph 7) or Common Stock then distributable hereunder with respect to the Participant shall be distributed to such individual, trustee, trust or other entity ("Beneficiary") as the Participant shall have designated by an instrument in writing last filed with Northern prior to death, or in the absence of a designation, to the following persons in the order indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such distribution shall be made as soon as practicable after the death of the Participant or on such other date designated by the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary, but in any event not later than two years after the death of the Participant.
 
 
 
Participant or to the Participant's Beneficiaries (as defined in Paragraph 6), such balance shall be increased on the last day of each calendar quarter to reflect accrued interest on such balance based on the rate of interest determined from time to time by the Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
Participant on the distribution date in each year of the installment period in an amount equal to the then current balance in the Cash Account multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be one, and the denominator of which shall be the number of years remaining in the installment period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Participant and Northern Trust Corporation by its duly authorized officer have signed this Agreement the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
Your Stock Units will vest according to the following schedule:
 
 


