FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20060419093415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") recently took several actions to eliminate cumulative voting to allow for adoption of a majority vote standard in the election of directors. On April 18, 2006, the Corporation amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation by deleting ARTICLE FIFTH, Section 3, captioned "Cumulative Voting." The amendment was approved by the Corporation's stockholders at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, as recommended by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
On April 18, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Corporation amended the By-laws of the Corporation by deleting ARTICLE I, Section 1.7, captioned "Cumulative Voting," and replacing it with a new Section 1.7, captioned "Majority Vote Required." New Section 1.7 provides that in all uncontested elections of directors of the Corporation (an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board), a nominee must receive the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes present and voting at a meeting of stockholders in order to be elected as a director. It further provides that in all contested elections of directors of the Corporation, the affirmative vote of a plurality of the votes present and voting is required to elect a director.
i.e.,
The Board also amended, effective April 18, 2006, the Corporate Governance Guidelines of the Corporation to add a new Section B (with all succeeding Sections appropriately re-lettered) to require an incumbent director who fails to receive the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes present and voting in an uncontested election at a meeting of stockholders to submit his or her resignation, with such resignation to be considered by the members of the Corporate Governance Committee and the Board other than such incumbent director.
The descriptions of the foregoing amendments to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and Corporate Governance Guidelines are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such amended documents, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 99.1, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The name of the Corporation is Northern Trust Corporation.
The address of its registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
The nature of the business to be conducted or promoted and the purposes of the Corporation are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
The total number of shares of all classes of capital stock which the Corporation has the authority to issue is 570,000,000 shares, which are divided into two classes as follows:
10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock (Preferred Stock) without par value, and
560,000,000 shares of Common Stock (Common Stock) $1.66
 2
/
3
par value per share.
 
The designations, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the above classes of stock are as follows:
1. .
Issuance in Series
Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series at such time or times, and for such consideration or considerations as the Board of Directors may determine. All shares of any one series of Preferred Stock will be identical with each other in all respects, except that shares of any one series issued at different times may differ as to dates from which dividends thereon may be cumulative. All series will rank equally and be identical in all respects, except as permitted by the following provisions of paragraph 2 of this Division I.
2. .
Authority of the Board with respect to Series
The Board of Directors is authorized, at any time and from time to time, to provide for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue thereof adopted by the Board of Directors, and as are not stated and expressed in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment thereto including, but not limited to, determination of any of the following:
(a) the distinctive serial designation and the number of shares constituting a series;
(b) the dividend rate or rates, whether dividends are cumulative and, if so, from which date, the payment date or dates for dividends, and the participating or other special rights, if any, with respect to dividends;
(c) the voting powers, full or limited, if any, of the shares of the series;
(d) whether the shares are redeemable and, if so, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions on which, the shares may be redeemed;
(e) the amount or amounts payable upon the shares in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation prior to any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation to any class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock;
(f) whether the shares are entitled to the benefit of a sinking or retirement fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of shares of a series and, if so entitled, the amount of the fund and the manner of its application, including the price or prices at which the shares may be redeemed or purchased through the application of the fund;
(g) whether the shares are convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation and, if so convertible or exchangeable, the conversion price or
 
prices, or the rates of exchange, and the adjustments thereof, if any, at which the conversion or exchange may be made, and any other terms and conditions of the conversion or exchange; and
(h) any other preferences, privileges and powers, and relative participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of a series, as the Board of Directors may deem advisable and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
3. .
Dividends
Before any dividends on any class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred stock (other than dividends payable in shares of any class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock) may be declared or paid or set apart for payment, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of each series are entitled to such cash dividends, but only when and as declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor, as they may be entitled to in accordance with the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of the series, payable on such dates in each year as may be fixed in the resolution or resolutions. The term "class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized which rank junior to the Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation.
4. .
Reacquired Shares
Shares of Preferred Stock which have been issued and reacquired in any manner by the Corporation (excluding, until the Corporation elects to retire them, shares which are held as treasury shares but including shares redeemed, shares purchased and retired and shares which have been converted into shares of Common Stock) will have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued.
5. .
Voting Rights
Unless and except to the extent otherwise required by law or provided in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors creating any series of Preferred Stock pursuant to this Division I, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have no voting power with respect to any matter whatsoever. In no event shall the Preferred Stock be entitled to more than one vote in respect of each share of stock except as may be required by law or by this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
6. .
Outstanding or Reserved for Issuance Preferred Stock
(a) Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
1. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 1,500,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board; provided, that no decrease shall
Designation and Amount.
 
reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.
2. .
Dividends and Distributions
(A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $1.66
 2
/
3
per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $21.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after July 21, 1998 (the "Rights Dividends Declaration Date") declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $21.00 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
 
(C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
3. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights.
(A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Dividend Declaration Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
(C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
 
4. .
Certain Restrictions
(A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
(i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
(iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
5. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or in any Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares.
 
6. .
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
(A) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received an amount equal to $100 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "Series A Liquidation Preference"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 100 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in subparagraph (C) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
(B) In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
(C) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Dividend Declaration Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
7. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Dividend Declaration Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
8. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption.
9. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Rank.
10. This Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
Amendment.
11. Series A Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares.
1. .
Dividends
Subject to the preferential rights of the Preferred Stock, the holders of the Common Stock are entitled to receive, to the extent permitted by law, such dividends as may be declared from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
2. .
Liquidation
In the event of the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding up of the Corporation, after distribution in full of the preferential amounts, if any, to be distributed to the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive all of the remaining assets of the Corporation of whatever kind available for distribution to stockholders ratably in proportion to the number of shares of Common Stock held by them respectively. The Board of Directors may distribute in kind to the holders of Common Stock such remaining assets of the Corporation or may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any part of such remaining assets to any other corporation, trust or other entity and receive payment therefor in cash, stock or obligations of such other corporation, trust or other entity, or any combination thereof, and may sell all or any part of the consideration so received and distribute any balance thereof in kind to holders of Common Stock. The merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation, or the merger of any other corporation into it, or any purchase or redemption of shares of stock of the Corporation of any class, shall not be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation for the purposes of this paragraph.
3. .
Voting Rights
Except as may be otherwise required by law or this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, each holder of Common Stock has one vote in respect of each share of stock held by him of record on the books of the Corporation on all matters voted upon by the Stockholders.
1. .
Preemptive Rights
No stockholder shall have any preemptive right to subscribe to an additional issue of stock of any class or series or to any securities of the Corporation convertible into such stock.
2. .
Changes in Authorized Capital Stock
Subject to the protective conditions and restrictions of any outstanding Preferred Stock, any amendment to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation which increases or decreases the authorized capital stock of any class or classes may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the voting stock of the Corporation.
1. .
Powers of the Board
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized:
(a) To make, alter or repeal the by-laws of the Corporation.
 
(b) To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens upon the real and personal property of the Corporation.
(c) To set apart out of any of the funds of the Corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and to abolish any reserve in the manner in which it was created.
(d) By a majority of the whole board, to designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. The by-laws may provide that in the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, or in the by-laws of the Corporation, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the by-laws of the Corporation; and, unless the resolution or by-laws expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock.
(e) When and as authorized by the stockholders in accordance with statute, to sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, including its good will and its corporate franchises, upon such terms and conditions and for such consideration, which may consist in whole or in part of money or property including shares of stock in, and/or other securities of, any other corporation or corporations, as the Board of Directors shall deem expedient and for the best interests of the Corporation.
2. .
Terms and Number of Board Members
The number of members of the Board of Directors will be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, but (subject to vacancies) in no event may there be less than three directors. Each director shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until his successor is elected.
 
If any vacancy occurs in the Board of Directors during a term, the remaining directors, by affirmative vote of a majority thereof, may elect a director to fill the vacancy until the next annual meeting of stockholders.
The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provisions contained in the statutes) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the by-laws of the Corporation. Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless the by-laws of the Corporation shall so provide.
No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the board or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if:
1. The material facts as to his interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by a vote sufficient for such purpose without counting the vote of the interested director or directors; or
2. The material facts as to his interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or
3. The contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders.
Interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
 
1. .
Claim Brought by Third Parties
The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted by such person in such capacity, against costs, charges and other expenses (including attorneys' fees) ("Expenses"), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
2. .
Claim By or in the Right of the Corporation
The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgement in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted by such person in such capacity, against Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the investigation, defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such Expenses which the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.
3. .
Additional Indemnification
In addition to the indemnification provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article Eighth, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be
 
made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise by reason of the fact that he is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a director of such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding for breach of fiduciary duty as such director, except for liability: (i) for breach of the duty of loyalty to such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law; (iii) for unlawful payment of a dividend or unlawful purchase or redemption of stock; or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
4. .
Successful Defense
To the extent that any person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth has been successful on the merits or otherwise, including, without limitation, the dismissal of an action without prejudice, in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to therein or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
5. .
Determination of Conduct
Any indemnification under paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in said paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth. Such determination shall be made (a) by the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (b) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable and a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (c) by the stockholders.
6. .
Advance Payment
Expenses incurred by any person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as provided in this Article Eighth.
7. .
Certificate of Incorporation Article Not Exclusive; Change in Law
The indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article Eighth shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of Expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. Notwithstanding the
 
provisions of this Article Eighth, the Corporation shall indemnify and make advancement of Expenses to any person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth to the fullest extent permitted under the laws of the State of Delaware and any other applicable laws, as they now exist or as they may be amended in the future.
8. .
Contract Rights
All rights to indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided by this Article Eighth shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth. Any repeal or modification of this Article Eighth or any repeal or modification of relevant provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any other applicable law shall not in any way diminish any rights to indemnification or advancement of Expenses with respect to any state of facts then or previously existing or any action, suit or proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part on such state of facts.
9. .
Insurance
The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of this Article Eighth against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article Eighth or of Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
10. .
Indemnification of Employees or Agents
The Board of Directors may, by resolution, extend the indemnification and advancement of Expenses provisions of this Article Eighth to any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that he is or was or has agreed to become an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
11. .
Definition of Corporation
For purposes of this Article Eighth, references to the "Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, employees or agents so that any person who is or was or has agreed to become a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article Eighth with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
 
12. .
Employee Benefit Plans
For purposes of this Article Eighth, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director or officer of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article Eighth.
Any corporate action upon which a vote of stockholders is required or permitted may be taken without a meeting or vote of stockholders with the written consent of stockholders having not less than a majority of all of the stock entitled to vote upon the action if a meeting were held; provided, that in no case shall the written consent be by holders having less than the minimum percent of the vote required by statute for the proposed corporate action and provided that prompt notice be given to all stockholders of the taking of corporate action without a meeting and by less than unanimous written consent.
The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
No person who was or is a director of the Corporation shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for breach of the duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law; (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. For purposes hereof, "fiduciary duty as a director" shall include fiduciary duties arising in serving at the request of the Corporation as a director of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, and "personally liable to the Corporation" shall include liabilities to such other corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, trusts or other enterprises, and liabilities to the Corporation in its capacity as a security holder, joint venturer, partner, beneficiary, creditor or investor of or in any such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meeting the stockholders shall elect directors, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
SECTION 1.1
Annual Meeting.
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President. At a special meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 1.2
Special Meetings.
Unless a different manner of giving notice is prescribed by statute, written or printed notice stating the place, day, and hour of the meeting, and in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not more than 50 days nor less than 10 days (or less than 20 days if a merger or consolidation of the Corporation, or a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property or assets, is to be acted upon at the meeting) before the date of the meeting either personally or by mail, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid addressed to the stockholder at the stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
SECTION 1.3
Notice of Meetings.
SECTION 1.4
Fixing Date of Record.
(a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days (or less than 20 days if a merger or consolidation of the Corporation, or a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property or assets, is to be acted upon at the meeting) before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the next day preceding the day on
which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to an adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or by statute, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered in the manner required by law to the Corporation at its registered office in the State of Delaware or at its principal place of business or to an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of the Corporation's stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand delivery or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by statute, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall not be more than 60 days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
(d) Only those who shall be stockholders of record on the record date so fixed as aforesaid shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting and any adjournment thereof, or to receive payment of such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding the transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after the applicable record date.
The Board of Directors or the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall appoint, in advance, one or more
SECTION 1.5
Inspectors of Elections.
 
inspectors to act at each meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation. If no inspector has been appointed or one or more have been appointed but are unable or fail to act, the presiding officer of any meeting of the stockholders shall appoint one or more persons as inspectors for such meeting. Such inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares of stock of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting and the voting power of each share; determine and report the number of shares represented at the meeting, based upon their determination of the validity and effect of proxies and ballots; count all votes and ballots and report the results; and do such other acts as are required by law or are proper to conduct the election and voting with impartiality and fairness to all the stockholders. Each report of an inspector shall be in writing and signed by him or her or a majority of them if there is more than one inspector acting at such meeting. If there is more than one inspector, the report of a majority shall be the report of the inspectors. The report of the inspector or inspectors on the number of shares represented at the meeting and the results of the voting shall be evidence thereof. The inspector or inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist in performing their duties.
prima facie
The holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote at the meeting, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the presiding officer at the meeting or the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
SECTION 1.6
Quorum.
In all uncontested elections of Directors of the Corporation (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board), to be elected as a Director, a nominee for Director must receive the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes present and voting at the meeting of Stockholders. In all contested elections of Directors of the Corporation, the affirmative vote of a plurality of the votes present and voting will be required to elect a Director.
SECTION 1.7
Majority Vote Require
d.
Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy pursuant to the foregoing sentence, a stockholder may validly grant such authority by (a) executing a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy, (b) authorizing another person or persons to act for such stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder, or (c) any other means permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
SECTION 1.8
Proxies.
 
Voting in any election for Directors shall be by ballot.
SECTION 1.9
Voting by Ballot.
. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
SECTION 1.10
Voting Lists
. The Board of Directors may designate any place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the place of meeting for any annual meeting or any special meeting called by the Board of Directors. If no designation is made, or if a special meeting is otherwise called, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation in the City of Chicago.
SECTION 1.11
Place of Meeting
Shares of capital stock of the Corporation standing in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, may be voted by such officer, agent, or proxy as the by-laws of such corporation may prescribe, or, in the absence of such provision, as the Board of Directors of such corporation may determine.
SECTION 1.12
Voting of Shares of Certain Holders.
Shares of capital stock of the Corporation standing in the name of a deceased person, a minor ward or an incompetent person, may be voted by his or her administrator, executor, court appointed guardian or conservator, either in person or by proxy without a transfer of such shares into the name of such administrator, executor, court appointed guardian or conservator. Shares of capital stock of the Corporation standing in the name of a trustee may be voted by the trustee, either in person or by proxy.
Shares of capital stock of the Corporation standing in the name of a receiver may be voted by such receiver, and shares held by or under the control of a receiver may be voted by such receiver without the transfer thereof into the receiver's name if authority so to do be contained in an appropriate order of the court by which such receiver was appointed.
A stockholder whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the pledgee, and thereafter the pledgee shall be entitled to vote the shares so transferred.
Shares of its own capital stock belonging to this Corporation shall not be voted, directly or indirectly, at any meeting and shall not be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time, but shares of its own stock held by it in a fiduciary capacity may be voted and shall be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time.
 
No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 1.13 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.13.
SECTION 1.13
Nature of Business at Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one-hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.13, , , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 1.13 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided
however
 
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.1
General Powers.
. The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of such number of Directors, not less than five nor more than 25, as shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. Each Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until a successor is elected.
SECTION 2.2
Number, Tenure and Qualifications
A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at least once each quarter at such place, date and hour as the Board may appoint. Notice of each regular meeting, unless waived, shall be given in the same manner as is provided for notice of a special meeting.
SECTION 2.3
Regular Meetings.
A special meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Directors then in office. The person or persons calling or requesting such meeting may fix the place, date and hour thereof.
SECTION 2.4
Special Meetings; Notice.
Notice of the place, date, and hour of each special meeting, unless waived, shall be given to each Director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone, facsimile or telegram on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. Such notice may be given by the Secretary or by the officer or Directors calling the meeting.
If notice to a Director is given:
SECTION 2.5
Time of Notice.
(a) in person, such notice shall be deemed to have been given when delivered;
(b) by mail, such notice shall be deemed to have been given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the Director at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation for such Director;
(c) by telegram, cable or other similar means (not including mail) that provide written notice, such notice shall be deemed to have been given when delivered to any transmission company, with charges prepaid, addressed to the Director at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation for such Director; or
(d) by facsimile or by telephone, wireless or other means of voice transmission, such notice shall be deemed to have been given when transmitted to such number or call designation as appears on the records of the Corporation for such Director.
 
Any meeting of the Board of Directors shall be a legal meeting without any notice having been given if all the Directors are present at the meeting, and no notice of a meeting shall be required to be given to any Director who attends such meetings.
majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, provided that if less than a majority of the Directors are present at said meeting, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
SECTION 2.6
Quorum. A
The act of the majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except on additions, amendments, repeal or any changes whatsoever in the By-laws or the adoption of new By-laws, when the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the members of the Board shall be necessary for the adoption of such changes.
SECTION 2.7
Manner of Acting.
A director may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meetings.
The Directors shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by the Board for services to the Corporation.
SECTION 2.8
Directors' Compensation.
If vacancies occur in the Board of Directors caused by death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of any Director or Directors, or otherwise, or if any new Directorship is created by any increase in the authorized number of Directors, a majority of the surviving or remaining Directors then in office, though less than a quorum, may choose a successor or successors, or fill the newly created Directorship, and the Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until their successors are elected.
SECTION 2.9
Vacancies.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee thereof, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee.
SECTION 2.10
Consent in Lieu of Meeting.
Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.11 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.11.
SECTION 2.11
Nomination of Directors.
 
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one-hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such stockholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11. If the Chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
The Directors shall each year appoint no less than five Directors, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the Board and one of whom shall be the President if the President is designated the Chief Executive Officer, who shall constitute and be called the Executive Committee. Each Director so appointed shall act as a member of the Committee until another is appointed and acts in the Director's place. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the Committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the Committee, the members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. In the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, or upon the request of the Chairman, the President, if the President is a member of the Committee, or a member elected by the Committee shall preside at meetings of the Committee.
SECTION 3.1
Number, Tenure and Quorum.
A majority of the members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
The Executive Committee may, while the Board of Directors is not in session, exercise all or any of the powers of the Board of Directors; except that the Executive Committee shall not have the power or authority of the Board of Directors in reference to amending the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the By-laws of the Corporation, or declaring a dividend or authorizing the issuance of stock.
SECTION 3.2
Powers.
. Meetings of the Executive Committee shall be held at the office of the Corporation, or elsewhere, and at such time as they may appoint, but the Committee shall at all times be subject to the call of the Chairman of the Board or any member of the Committee.
SECTION 3.3
Meetings
The Executive Committee, through the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, shall keep books of separate minutes and report all its action at every regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or as often as may be required by the Board.
SECTION 3.4
Records and Reports.
An Audit Committee and its Chairman shall be appointed by the Board of Directors annually at its organization meeting. The Committee shall perform such functions, both for the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and for such individual banking subsidiaries as the Board shall direct, as are set forth in an
SECTION 4.1
The Audit Committee.
 
Audit Committee Charter adopted by the Board and conforming to the requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Act"), and applicable regulatory authorities. The Committee shall consist of at least four Directors. The membership of the Committee shall meet the requirements of Nasdaq, the Act and applicable regulatory authorities, as set forth in the Audit Committee Charter. The Committee shall meet upon the call of its Chairman or any member of the Committee. A majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee. In the event of a tie vote on any issue, the Chairman's vote shall decide the issue. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the Committee, the members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board who meets the Committee membership requirements set forth in the Audit Committee Charter to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
A Corporate Governance Committee and its Chairman shall be appointed by the Board of Directors annually at its organization meeting. The Committee shall perform such functions as the Board shall direct, as are set forth in a Corporate Governance Committee Charter adopted by the Board and conforming to the requirements of Nasdaq and applicable regulatory authorities. The Committee shall consist of at least three Directors. The membership of the Committee shall meet the requirements of Nasdaq and applicable regulatory authorities, as set forth in the Corporate Governance Committee Charter. The Committee shall meet upon the call of its Chairman or any member of the Committee. A majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee. In the event of a tie vote on any issue, the Chairman's vote shall decide the issue. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the Committee, the members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board who meets the Committee membership requirements set forth in the Corporate Governance Committee Charter to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
SECTION 5.1
The Corporate Governance Committee.
A Compensation and Benefits Committee and its Chairman shall be appointed by the Board of Directors annually at its organization meeting. The Committee shall perform such functions as the Board shall direct, as are set forth in a Compensation and Benefits Committee Charter adopted by the Board and conforming to the requirements of Nasdaq and applicable regulatory authorities. The Committee shall consist of at least three Directors. The membership of the Committee shall meet the requirements of Nasdaq and applicable regulatory authorities, as set forth in the Compensation and Benefits Committee Charter. The Committee shall meet upon the call of its Chairman or any
SECTION 6.1
The Compensation and Benefits Committee.
 
member of the Committee. A majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Committee. In the event of a tie vote on any issue, the Chairman's vote shall decide the issue. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the Committee, the members present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board who meets the Committee membership requirements set forth in the Compensation and Benefits Committee Charter to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
A Business Risk Committee and its Chairman shall be appointed by the Board of Directors annually at its organization meeting. The Committee shall perform such functions as the Board shall direct, as are set forth in a Business Risk Committee Charter adopted by the Board. The Committee shall consist of no less than three Directors, none of whom shall be an employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. The Committee shall meet upon the call of the Chairman or any member of the Committee, and a majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the Committee, the members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
SECTION 7.1
The Business Risk Committee.
A Business Strategy Committee and its Chairman shall be appointed by the Board of Directors annually at its organization meeting. The Committee shall perform such functions as the Board shall direct, as are set forth in a Business Strategy Committee Charter adopted by the Board. The Committee shall consist of no less than three Directors, none of whom shall be an employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. The Committee shall meet upon the call of the Chairman or any member of the Committee, and a majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the Committee, the members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
SECTION 8.1
The Business Strategy Committee.
The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board and a President, one of whom shall be designated Chief Executive
SECTION 9.1
Number and Term of Office.
 
Officer by the Board of Directors, and may also include one or more Vice Chairmen, one or more Executive Vice Presidents (any of whom may be designated a Senior Executive Vice President), such additional Vice Presidents with such designations, if any, as may be determined by the Board of Directors, a Secretary and a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers as may be determined by the Board of Directors, and such other officers as may from time to time be appointed by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person. The Chairman of the Board and the President shall be elected from among the Directors; the other officers may be appointed by the Board of Directors.
The officers of the Corporation shall be elected or appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of stockholders. Vacancies or new offices may be filled at any time. Each officer shall hold office until a successor shall have been duly elected or appointed or until his or her death or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed by the Board of Directors.
An officer may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby.
SECTION 9.2
Removal.
The Chairman of the Board shall have such powers as are vested in him or her by the Board of Directors, by law or by these By-laws. The Chairman shall preside at the meetings of the stockholders, of the Board of Directors, and of the Executive Committee.
SECTION 9.3
The Chairman of the Board.
The President shall have the powers and duties vested in him or her by the Board of Directors, by law or by these By-laws. In the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, or upon the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have and exercise all of the powers and duties of the Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 9.4
The President.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall have, subject to the supervision and direction of the Board of Directors or of the Executive Committee, general supervision of the business, property and affairs of the Corporation and the powers vested in him or her by the Board of Directors, by law or by these By-laws or which usually attach or pertain to such office. Except in those instances in which the authority to execute is expressly delegated to another officer or agent of the Corporation or a different mode of execution is expressly prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer may execute for the Corporation any contracts, deeds, mortgages, bonds, or other instruments which the Board of Directors has authorized, and the Chief Executive Officer may (without previous authorization by the Board of Directors) execute such contracts and other instruments as the conduct of the Corporation's business in its ordinary course requires.
SECTION 9.5
The Chief Executive Officer.
A Vice Chairman shall have such powers and perform such duties as are vested in or assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the President or these By-laws. In the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board and the President, the Vice Chairman (or in the event there be more than one Vice Chairman, the Vice Chairmen in the order designated, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board and the President and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairman of the Board and President.
SECTION 9.6
The Vice Chairmen.
 
In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President and the Vice Chairmen or in the event of their inability or refusal to act, the Executive Vice President (or in the event there be more than one Executive Vice President, the Executive Vice Presidents in the order designated, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board, of the President, and of the Vice Chairmen and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairman of the Board, the President and the Vice Chairmen. Any Executive Vice President may sign, with the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, certificates for shares of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice Chairman, the Board of Directors, or these By-laws.
SECTION 9.7
The Executive Vice Presidents.
The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them from time to time by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Vice Chairmen, or the Board of Directors, or these By-laws. Any Vice President may sign, with the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certificates for shares of the Corporation.
SECTION 9.8
The Vice Presidents.
If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his or her duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Treasurer shall: (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation; receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit all such moneys in the name of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of Article X of these By-laws; and (b) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice Chairman, the Board of Directors, or these By-laws.
SECTION 9.9
The Treasurer.
The Secretary shall have the custody of the corporate seal and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall affix the same to all instruments or papers requiring the seal of the Corporation. The Secretary, or in his or her absence, any Assistant Secretary, shall see that proper notices are sent of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, and shall see that all proper notices are given, as required by these By-laws. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of stockholders and Directors and all committees which may request their services.
SECTION 9.10
The Secretary.
The Assistant Treasurers shall respectively, if required by the Board of Directors, give bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Assistant Secretaries as thereunto authorized by the Board of Directors may sign with the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice Chairman, or an Executive Vice President certificates for shares of the Corporation, the issue of which shall have been authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. The Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Treasurer or the Secretary, respectively, or by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice Chairman, the Board of Directors, or these By-laws.
SECTION 9.11
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries.
 
The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that the officer is also a director of the Corporation.
SECTION 9.12
Salaries.
The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
SECTION 10.1
Contracts.
No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
SECTION 10.2
Loans.
All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 10.3
Checks, Drafts, etc.
All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board of Directors may select.
SECTION 10.4
Deposits.
The Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice Chairman, or any Executive Vice President may execute proxies on behalf of the Corporation with respect to the voting of any shares of stock owned by the Corporation.
SECTION 10.5
Power to Execute Proxies.
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as may be determined by the Board of Directors. Such certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice Chairman, an Executive Vice President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and shall be sealed with the seal of the Corporation. The seal may be a facsimile. If a stock certificate is countersigned (i) by a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee, or (ii) by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of
SECTION 11.1
Certificates for Shares.
 
issue. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the books of the Corporation.
All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be cancelled and no new certificates shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled, except that in case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate a new one may be issued therefor upon such terms and indemnity to the Corporation as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Transfers of shares of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the holder of record thereof or by the holder's legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of authority to transfer, or by the holder's attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation, and on surrender for cancellation of the certificate for such shares. The person in whose name shares stand on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation.
SECTION 11.2
Transfers of Shares.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and end on the last day of December in each year.
SECTION 12.1
Fiscal Year.
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation.
SECTION 13.1
Seal.
. Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of these By-laws or under the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to suchnotice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of any person at a meeting for which any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of these By-laws, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
SECTION 14.1
Waiver of Notice
 
Adirector, officer or other person (the "Indemnitee") who seeks indemnification (other than advancement of expenses pursuant to Section 15.12 hereof), in respect of amounts paid or owing as expenses, judgments, fines, or in settlement, shall submit a written request for indemnification (the "Indemnification Request") to the Board of Directors of the Corporation by delivering or mailing the same, registered or certified mail, to the Board of Directors c/o the Secretary of the Corporation at the Corporation's principal executive offices. If mailed, the Indemnification Request shall be deemed made 48 hours after depositing the same in the United States mail addressed as aforesaid.
SECTION 15.1
Indemnification Request.
The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification as set forth in the Indemnification Request shall be made in the specific case, at the expense of the Corporation, as set forth in paragraph 5 of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation. However, in the event a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined) shall have occurred, suchdetermination shall be made by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the Indemnitee.
SECTION 15.2
Determination of Indemnification Request.
The termination with respect to the Indemnitee of any action, suit or proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not of itself adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not meet the standard of conduct required by Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation for indemnification. If the Indemnitee is a person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Indemnitee shall be presumed to have met the required standard of conduct but only to the extent not contrary to any final findings of fact or law made in any action, suit or proceeding to which the Indemnitee is or was a party and for which indemnification is requested. The person, persons or entity making the determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be entitled to rely upon all such findings of fact and law made known to such person, persons or entity. Such person, persons or entity may consider such other matters as they or it deem appropriate, shall not be required to receive or hear evidence, oral presentations, briefs or other submission, shall not be required to hold hearings, and shall not otherwise be subject to any rules of evidence or procedure applicable to judicial or other proceedings.
SECTION 15.3
Presumption of Entitlement; Conclusive Effect of Findings of Fact and Law; Other Procedures.
nolo contendere
The Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making the determination with respect to the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable advance request, any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Corporation irrespective of the determination as to the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification.
SECTION 15.4
Cooperation and Expenses.
 
If a determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel, the Independent Counsel shall be selected as provided in this Section 15.5. If a Change of Control shall not have occurred, Independent Counsel shall be selected by a majority vote of a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors. If a Change of Control shall have occurred, or if a quorum shall decline or fail to select Independent Counsel within five business days after having directed, pursuant to paragraph 5(b) of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification to be submitted to Independent Counsel, then Independent Counsel shall be selected by the law firm regularly or most frequently engaged by the Corporation during the preceding three years for representation or counseling in connection with general corporate matters. In any event, Independent Counsel shall be selected from among those Chicago, Illinois, or Delaware law firms having a significant and continuous practice in the field of corporate law but excluding any firm that: (i) has, within the preceding three years represented the Corporation, the Indemnitee or affiliates of either in any significant matter; (ii) has, within the preceding three years, represented any other party in any significant judicial or other proceeding against or in opposition to the Corporation, the Indemnitee or any affiliate of either; (iii) had any involvement of any significant nature in or with respect to the claim for which indemnification is requested; or (iv) has any other material conflict of interest in being engaged as Independent Counsel.
SECTION 15.5
Selection of Independent Counsel.
The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made within 60 days after such Indemnitee shall have submitted all such additional information, if any, as shall have been reasonably requested during the 30-day period following the initial submission of the Indemnification Request to the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 15.1 hereof. The foregoing notwithstanding, in the event that the claim with respect to which indemnification is requested is the subject of a judicial, government or other proceeding, the Board of Directors, stockholders or Independent Counsel, as the case may be, may defer their determination until 60 days after any such proceeding shall have been finally adjudicated or terminated (by settlement or otherwise) and all periods for appeal, rehearing or reinstitution of such proceeding (whether in a different forum or otherwise) have expired.
SECTION 15.6
Time for Determination.
If a determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall not be made within the period specified in these By-laws, unless due to a material failure of the Indemnitee to comply with his or her obligations under Section 15.4 hereof, then the Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification to the extent and in the manner set forth in the Indemnification Request. The Indemnitee may only enforce his or her rights to indemnification, whether pursuant to a determination that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification or pursuant to this Section 15.7, in any judicial proceeding brought, at the election of the Indemnitee, in any court having jurisdiction within the State of Delaware, the State of Illinois, or the state in which the Corporation shall then have its principal executive offices. The Indemnitee shall be entitled to all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the successful enforcement of the Indemnitee's right to indemnification.
SECTION 15.7
Failure To Make Determination; Remedies For Enforcement.
 
In the event that a determination shall be made that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, in whole or in part, the Indemnitee may only institute an action in any court having jurisdiction within the State of Delaware, the State of Illinois, or the state in which the Corporation shall have its principal executive offices to establish the Indemnitee's right to indemnification. Any such proceeding shall be conducted in all respects as a determination on the merits and any such prior determination made pursuant to these By-laws that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification shall not constitute a presumption that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification.
SECTION 15.8
Appeal of Adverse Determination.
de novo
In any judicial proceeding regarding the Indemnitee's right or entitlement to indemnification or advancement of expenses, the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that any Indemnitee who is a person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of expenses as the case may be, subject, however, to principles of and relating to prior judicial proceedings to which the Indemnitee is or was a party. In cases in which the Indemnitee is not a person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Indemnitee shall have the burden of proving he or she is entitled to indemnification or the advancement of expenses.
SECTION 15.9
Burden of Proof.
res judicata
collateral estoppel
A Disinterested Director shall mean any director who: (i) was not a party to the claim or proceeding with respect to which indemnification is requested; (ii) has not submitted an Indemnification Request or a request for advancement of expenses on his or her own behalf that has not been finally resolved; or (iii) does not have any direct and material financial or other personal interest in the determination of the Indemnification Request.
SECTION 15.10
Definition of "Disinterested Director."
A Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of:
SECTION 15.11
Definition of "Change of Control."
(a) The receipt by the Corporation of a Schedule 13D or other statement filed under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, indicating that any entity, person, or group has acquired beneficial ownership, as that term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of more than 30% of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors ("voting stock");
(b) The commencement by an entity, person, or group (other than the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation) of a tender offer or an exchange offer for more than 20% of the outstanding voting stock of the Corporation;
(c) The effective time of (i) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with one or more other corporations as a result of which the holders of the outstanding voting stock of the Corporation immediately prior to such merger or consolidation hold less than 80% of the voting stock of the surviving or resulting corporation, or (ii) a transfer of substantially all of the property of the Corporation other than to an entity of which the Corporation owns at least 80% of the voting stock; or
 
(d) The election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the recommendation or approval of the incumbent Board of Directors of the Corporation, of the lesser of (i) three directors or (ii) directors constituting a majority of the number of directors of the Corporation then in office.
Expenses as may be incurred by a person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in such Article Eighth. Such expenses as may be incurred by other employees and agents may be so paid on such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate. For purposes of the foregoing, a determination that a person referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 of Article Eighth of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation shall be made in the manner hereinbefore provided for the determination of an Indemnification Request; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may initiate such determination whenever it shall deem the same to be appropriate. In connection with such determination, such person shall be subject to all requirements of these By-laws imposed on an "Indemnitee" in respect of a determination made pursuant to Section 15.2 hereof.
SECTION 15.12
Advancement of Expenses.
No director of the Corporation shall be personally liable to any person seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses for any determination, act or omission in connection therewith.
SECTION 15.13
Personal Liability of Directors.
These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed and new By-laws may be adopted at any meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board. These By-laws may also be amended or repealed, or new By-laws may be adopted, by action taken by the stockholders of the Corporation.
SECTION 16.1
Amendments.
 

Exhibit 99.1
These Corporate Governance Guidelines (these "Guidelines") were adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") on April 18, 2006 and supersede the corporate governance guidelines adopted by the Board on November 15, 2005. These Guidelines are intended to comply with the corporate governance rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq").
A.
Composition of the Board of Directors
1. . In recent years, the Board has had between 12 and 16 members. A size in this range makes the Board large enough to allow for a diversity of perspectives and backgrounds without being so large as to impede effective discussion. The quality of the individuals serving and the overall balance of the Board is more important than the precise number of members. The Corporate Governance Committee periodically reviews the size of the Board, and these considerations could lead the Corporate Governance Committee to recommend to the Board, from time to time, a Board outside this range.
Size
2. . A majority of the Board consists of "independent directors," as defined under Nasdaq rules. No director shall qualify as "independent" unless the Board affirmatively determines that the director has no relationship with the Corporation which, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director and has no material relationship with the Corporation (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Corporation). The Corporation will disclose, in its annual proxy statement, the names of those directors that the Board has determined to be independent under the Nasdaq rules and the basis for the Board's determination that a relationship is not material. To assist it in making determinations of independence, the Board may adopt and disclose categorical standards. The Board would not expect to have more than one or two employee directors except in unusual circumstances, such as during a transition in leadership.
Independence
3. . No director may stand for election to the Board after his or her 72
Retirement
nd
birthday except in unusual circumstances approved by the Board. It is also expected that employee directors will resign from the Board at the time they resign or retire from the Corporation.
4. . Independent directors who change the primary position they held when they were elected to the Board will promptly advise the Corporate Governance Committee of the change for review and recommendation to the Board. It is not the sense of the Board that in every instance directors who retire from or change the primary position they held when they came on the Board should necessarily leave the Board. The Board should, however, have an opportunity through the Corporate Governance Committee to review the continued appropriateness of Board membership under the circumstances.
Change of Job Responsibility
5. . The Board as a whole is responsible for selecting candidates for director. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for screening and recommending candidates. In discharging this responsibility, the Committee considers the nature of the expertise and experience required for the performance of the duties of a director of a corporation engaged in the Corporation's business and such matters as the relevant business and industry experience, professional background, age, current employment, community service and other board service of candidates for directors, as well as the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee seeks to identify, as candidates for director, persons with a reputation for and record of integrity and good business judgment who (1) have experience in positions with a high degree of responsibility and are leaders in the organizations with which they are affiliated, (2) are free from conflicts of interest that could interfere with a director's duties to the Corporation and its stockholders, and (3) are willing and able to make the necessary commitment of time and attention required for effective Board service. The Corporate Governance Committee also takes into account the candidate's level of financial literacy. The Corporate Governance Committee monitors the mix of skills and experience of the directors in order to assess whether the Board has the necessary tools to perform its oversight function effectively.
Candidates
6. . Although the Corporate Governance Committee will consider length of service in recommending candidates for re-election, the Board does not believe that adopting a set term limit for directors serves the interests of the Corporation.
Term Limits
7. . No director may serve on the board of directors of more than four public companies, in addition to the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee takes into account the competing demands on a person's time in deciding whether or not to recommend to the Board such person's nomination or renomination as a director.
Service on Other Boards
8. . The Board should remain free to configure leadership of the Board and the Corporation in the way that best serves the Corporation's interests at the time and, accordingly, has no fixed policy with respect to combining or separating the offices of Chairman and CEO.
Leadership
9. . Director compensation should be set by the Board. The Compensation and Benefits Committee, with the assistance of the Corporation's staff, reviews the amount and composition of director compensation from time to time and makes recommendations to the Board when it concludes changes are needed. In recommending director compensation, the Compensation and Benefits Committee considers the potential negative effect on director independence if director compensation and perquisites exceed customary levels.
Compensation
B.
Effect of a Failure to Receive a Majority of the Votes In Director Elections
1. . In an uncontested election of directors (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board), any incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes present and voting at the meeting of stockholders will promptly tender his or her resignation to the Chairman of the Board (or such other director designated by the Board if the director failing to receive the majority of votes cast is the Chairman of the Board) following certification of the stockholder vote.
Required Resignation
 
2. . The Corporate Governance Committee will promptly consider the resignation submitted by an incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes, and the Corporate Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to accept the tendered resignation or reject it. In considering whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, the Corporate Governance Committee will consider all factors deemed relevant by the members of the Corporate Governance Committee including, without limitation, the stated reasons a majority of stockholders did not support such director, the length of service and qualifications of the director whose resignation has been tendered, the director's contributions to the Corporation, and the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Consideration of Resignation
3. . The Board will act on the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation no later than 90 days following the date of the stockholders' meeting where the election occurred. In considering the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, the Board will consider the factors considered by the Corporate Governance Committee and such additional information and factors the Board believes to be relevant. Following the Board's decision on the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, the Corporation will promptly publicly disclose the Board's decision whether to accept the resignation as tendered (providing a full explanation of the process by which the decision was reached and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation) in a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Board Action
4. . To the extent that one or more directors' resignations are accepted by the Board, the Corporate Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to fill such vacancy or vacancies or to reduce the size of the Board.
Vacancies
5. . Any director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this provision will not participate in the Corporate Governance Committee recommendation or Board consideration regarding whether or not to accept the tendered resignation. If a majority of the members of the Corporate Governance Committee failed to receive a majority of the votes at the same election, then the independent directors who are on the Board who did receive a majority of the votes (or who were not standing for election) will appoint a Board committee amongst themselves solely for the purpose of considering the tendered resignations and will recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject them. This Board committee may, but need not, consist of all of the independent directors who received a majority of the votes or who were not standing for election.
Recusal of Certain Directors
6. . This corporate governance guideline will be summarized or included in each proxy statement relating to an election of directors of the Corporation.
Inclusion in Proxy Statement
C. .
Responsibilities of Directors; Meeting Attendance and Preparation
1. . Directors are expected to exercise their business judgment in good faith and in what they reasonably believe to be the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders. In discharging those obligations, directors should be entitled to rely on the honesty and integrity of the Corporation's senior management and outside advisors and auditors.
General Responsibilities of Directors
 
2. . Directors shall be entitled to indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law and by the Corporation's charter and By-laws and to exculpation as provided by state law and by the Corporation's charter. Directors shall also be entitled to have the Corporation purchase reasonable directors' and officers' liability insurance on their behalf.
Indemnification
3. . The Chairman of the Board is responsible for setting and circulating in advance an agenda for each meeting. Any director may suggest items for inclusion on the agenda or may raise, at any Board meeting, subjects that are not on the agenda for that meeting. The Board expects that meeting agendas will include on a regular basis a review of financial performance and a review of the Corporation's business strategies and practices.
Agendas
4. . Directors are expected to attend Board meetings and to spend the time needed to discharge their responsibilities as directors. Materials with respect to matters on which action is expected to be taken are circulated to the Board at least several days in advance of the meeting whenever possible, and directors are expected to review these materials in advance of the meeting. Financial reports, certain Committee minutes and other background materials are also circulated in advance of the meeting and during months when the Board is not scheduled to meet.
Meeting Attendance and Preparation
5. . Directors are expected to attend the annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders.
Attendance at Annual Meeting of Stockholders
6. . The independent members of the Board meet, without management, at regularly scheduled executive sessions which may take place after a regularly scheduled meeting of the full board. Such executive sessions shall be held at least twice a year. The Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee or, in his or her absence, the Chairman of either the Audit, Compensation and Benefits, Business Risk, or Business Strategy Committee presides at the executive sessions, as disclosed in the Corporation's annual proxy statement.
Executive Sessions of Independent Directors
7. . The Corporation discloses, in its annual proxy statement and on its website, one or more methods by which stockholders and other interested parties may communicate directly with the Board of Directors, including the Corporate Governance Committee Chairman, who presides over executive sessions of the Board, and the independent directors as a group.
Communications with Directors
8. The Board expects that senior officers of the Corporation will regularly attend Board and Committee meetings, present proposals and otherwise assist in the work of the Board. Members of the Board have direct access to any of the Corporation's employees.
Access to Employees
9. . The Board has the power to hire independent legal, financial or other advisors as it deems necessary, without consulting or obtaining the approval of any officer of the Corporation in advance, and the Corporation will pay any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the engagement.
Authority to Engage Advisors
 
D. .
Committees of the Board
1. . The Corporation will have at all times Audit, Corporate Governance, and Compensation and Benefits Committees. The Corporation also has Business Risk, Business Strategy, and Executive Committees. The responsibilities of each Committee and any membership requirements are contained in the Corporation's By-laws and, in the case of the Audit, Corporate Governance, Compensation and Benefits, Business Risk and Business Strategy Committee, a charter approved by the Board. The Corporation complies with all applicable Nasdaq rules and regulatory requirements concerning the membership of the Audit, Corporate Governance, and Compensation and Benefits Committee, including those with respect to the independence of the directors who serve on those Committees. Employees of the Corporation do not serve on any of the Committees other than the Executive Committee, although the staff work needed for each Committee is coordinated by a designated officer of the Corporation. The Corporate Governance Committee reviews the Committee structure of the Board and the membership of the various Committees at least annually and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
Numbers and Composition of Committees
2. . The Board believes that Committee assignments should be based on the director's knowledge, interests and areas of expertise. The Chief Executive Officer will normally chair the Executive Committee. The Chairmanship of other Committees should change at intervals of approximately five years, and there should also be a regular rotation in the membership of the Committees, balancing in each case the need for fresh perspective with the need for experience and continuity.
Committee Chairmen and Membership
3. . The Committee Chairman, in consultation with the Committee members, determines the frequency of Committee meetings. Directors are expected to attend meetings of the Committees on which they sit and to spend the time needed to discharge their responsibilities as members of those Committees. The agenda and any background materials for Committee meetings may be developed in consultation with Committee members, management, or the executive officer responsible for supporting the Committee and are circulated in advance of a meeting whenever practical. Committee members are expected to review these materials in advance of the meeting. The Committee Chairmen report to the Board after each meeting, and minutes of the Committees are circulated to the Board.
Committee Meeting Procedures
E. .
Role with Respect to Management
1. . A key responsibility of the Board is to monitor the performance of the CEO and, in consultation with the CEO, the performance of other senior officers. The Compensation and Benefits Committee annually conducts a formal management development and succession planning review, to which all of the Corporation's directors are invited, and reports to the Board.
Evaluation of Senior Officers
2. . The Compensation and Benefits Committee reviews, and following Committee discussions, with and without the CEO, and the Committee's annual management development and succession planning review to which all of the Corporation's directors are invited, makes recommendations to the Board concerning management development and succession planning activities. The Corporate Governance Committee
Succession Planning
 
discusses succession planning in the event of the unexpected death, incapacity or resignation of the CEO and recommends to the Board, after consultation with the Chairman of the Corporation's Compensation and Benefits Committee, an appropriate successor under such circumstances.
3. . Management speaks for the Corporation. Inquiries from institutional investors, the press and others should be referred to the CEO or other appropriate officers.
Communication
F. .
Director Orientation and Continuing Professional Development
All new directors are required to participate in an orientation program, which is generally conducted within four months of each annual meeting at which new directors are elected. The orientation program includes the introduction of the new directors to the Corporation's principal officers and presentations by senior management to familiarize new directors with the Corporation's strategic plans and business units and generally includes a visit to the Corporation's headquarters. Continuing professional development opportunities for all other directors will be conducted through the Corporation's regular Board meetings and Board meeting materials; periodic Board or Board Committee presentations by the Corporation's officers concerning the Corporation's strategies, initiatives, business plans, management structure, compliance programs, and significant financial, accounting and risk management issues; Board or Board Committee presentations by outside parties concerning industry issues and other business, legal and regulatory matters; copies of periodic filings and significant presentations made to investors; attendance at the orientation program for new directors, if desired; and other professional development opportunities, if appropriate and relevant to the duties of a director of the Corporation, including presentations and programs offered by various outside organizations, with appropriate expenses paid by the Corporation.
G. .
Periodic Evaluation of Guidelines
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board reviews and reassesses these Guidelines periodically and submits any recommended changes to the Board for its approval.
H. .
Annual Performance Evaluation
The Corporate Governance Committee leads the Board in an annual self-evaluation to determine whether the Board and its committees are functioning effectively and in compliance with these Corporate Governance Guidelines. Such evaluation includes a review and assessment of the continuing independence of the Board's non-management directors. The Corporate Governance Committee solicits comments from all of the directors and reports annually to the Board on its assessment of the Board's performance and its recommendations for improvement. All directors are encouraged to make suggestions at any time for the improvement of the Board's practices.
 
Copies of these Guidelines are available on the Corporation's website at . Copies will also be mailed to shareholders of the Corporation or other interested persons upon written request to:
www.northerntrust.com
Rose A. Ellis
Corporate Secretary
Northern Trust Corporation
50 South La Salle Street, M-9
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 


