FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20060223191019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 21, 2006, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") approved grants of stock options, stock units and performance stock units to the following executive officers of the Corporation under the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "2002 Stock Plan"), as set forth below:
 
On February 21, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Corporation approved a grant of stock units under the 2002 Stock Plan to the non-employee directors of the Corporation equal in value to $60,000, with the value of the stock units determined by the average of the high and low sale prices of the Corporation's common stock on the date of the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
The terms and conditions of stock awards under the 2002 Stock Plan, including the 2006 stock awards disclosed herein, are set forth in the previously filed 2002 Stock Plan and, as applicable, the forms of the 2006 stock option agreement, 2006 stock unit agreement, 2006 performance stock unit agreement, and 2006 director stock agreement under the 2002 Stock Plan, all of which are filed herewith as exhibits and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION. PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. IF YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, PLEASE CLICK THE "I ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, PLEASE CLICK THE "I DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT, IN WHICH CASE THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE OF NO FORCE AND EFFECT AND YOUR AWARD UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE CANCELLED.
. Your stock option grant is subject to the provisions of the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "Plan") and the stock option notice (the "Option Notice"). The Option Notice and these Terms and Conditions constitute the "Stock Option Agreement" as defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the information in the Stock Option Agreement and the Plan, the Plan will govern. These Terms and Conditions apply to non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options issued under the Plan.
1.
Governing Documents
. The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") may amend the terms of the Plan or the Stock Option Agreement at any time, except that any amendment that adversely affects your rights in any material way requires your written consent.
2.
Amendments
. Your stock option is exercisable from and after the vesting date(s) set forth on the Option Notice until the ten (10)-year anniversary of the date the option was granted (the "Expiration Date"), except as provided below:
3.
Exercise Limitations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
earlier of (a) one-hundred and eighty (180) days following your termination of employment under the Severance Plan and (b) the Expiration Date. If you are eligible for a Normal, Early, or Postponed Pension Retirement Pension upon termination of employment under the Severance Plan, your stock option (whether vested or unvested) becomes vested and exercisable as of the date of your termination of employment and may be exercised at any time until the earlier of (a) five (5) years following the effective date of your retirement and (b) the Expiration Date. You should be aware that an unexercised incentive stock option automatically converts into a non-qualified stock option three (3) months after termination of employment in these circumstances pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Code relating to incentive stock options.
 
. If, after your termination of employment, you are re-employed by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries, upon your return you will be considered a new hire. Options that previously expired upon your termination of employment remain expired and are not reinstated.
4.
Re-Employment
 
.
5.
Exercise of Options
 
 
. Your stock option is not transferable other than as provided in these Terms and Conditions, except that you, with the prior approval of the Committee, may transfer a non-qualified stock option (but not an incentive stock option) under certain circumstances and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and such limits as the Committee may establish, and the transferee shall remain subject to all the terms and conditions applicable to the non-qualified stock option prior to the transfer. Except as described in the prior sentence, your stock option (whether a non-qualified stock option or an incentive stock option) is exercisable, during your lifetime, only by you or your personal representative. Additional written information regarding the mechanics and consequences of transferring a non-qualified stock option is available from the Corporate Secretary. You should request and review this information prior to making a request to transfer a non-qualified stock option.
6.
Nontransferability
. Delivery of shares of Common Stock upon exercise of your stock option is subject to the withholding of all applicable taxes. At your election, any withholding tax obligation shall be satisfied by the Corporation's withholding of a portion of the shares otherwise distributable to you at a rate acceptable to the Corporation or by your delivery of previously acquired shares that are "mature" (meaning that the shares have been held by you for more than six months) to the Corporation, up to the maximum federal rate. Payment of federal income taxes may be accomplished through a combination of withholding of shares and delivery of previously acquired shares that are "mature." If at any time the Corporation shall be advised by its counsel that the shares deliverable upon an exercise of the option must be accompanied or preceded by a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or any State securities law, or that the Corporation must comply with the rules of any securities exchange on which its common stock is traded, the Corporation will use its reasonable best efforts to deliver such prospectus and to comply with the rules of such securities exchange not later than a reasonable time following the exercise of the option, but the delivery of shares by the Corporation may be deferred until such prospectus is available or the Corporation complies with the rules of such securities exchange. As an option holder, you have no interest in the shares covered by the option until the shares are actually issued.
7.
Delivery of Shares
 
. Despite anything to the contrary in these Terms and Conditions, your stock options (whether vested or unvested) shall be forfeited and the Corporation shall have no obligation to honor the exercise of the stock options by you (or your beneficiary), if you:
8.
Restricted Activity
 
 
 
 
. The option grant shall not be deemed to obligate the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries to continue your employment for any particular period, nor is employment guaranteed for the length of the vesting schedule set forth in the Option Notice.
9.
No Contract of Employment
. Please refer to the "Summary Description of the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan" for a description of the U.S. federal income tax consequences affecting non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options.
10.
Taxes
. All questions pertaining to the validity, construction and administration of the Plan and the stock option grants to which the Option Notice and these Terms and Conditions apply shall be determined in conformity with the laws of the State of Illinois, without regard to the conflict of law provisions of any state.
11.
Applicable Law
. Capitalized terms not defined in the Stock Option Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. For purposes of the Stock Option Agreement:
12.
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
request or induce) any Client or Prospective Client of the Corporation, or any of its Subsidiaries, to: (i) surrender, redeem or terminate a product, service or relationship with the Corporation, or any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) obtain any Competitive Service or Product from you or any third party; or (iii) transfer a product, service or relationship from the Corporation, or any of its Subsidiaries, to you or any third party.
 

Exhibit 10.2
THIS STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION. PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. IF YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, PLEASE CLICK THE "I ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, PLEASE CLICK THE "I DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT, IN WHICH CASE THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE OF NO FORCE AND EFFECT AND YOUR AWARD UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE CANCELLED.
Your stock unit grant is subject to the provisions of the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "Plan") and the stock unit award notice (the "Award Notice"). The Award Notice and these Terms and Condition constitute the "Stock Unit Agreement" as defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the information in the Stock Unit Agreement and the Plan, the Plan will govern.
 
 
 
 
For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Retirement" means retirement occurring by reason of the Participant having qualified for a Normal, Early, or Postponed Retirement under The Northern Trust Company Pension Plan.
For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Disability" means a disability that continues for a period of 12 months as defined by Northern Trust's Managed Disability Program.
 
In the event of the Participant's death prior to the end of the Vesting Period, the Participant's beneficiary shall become entitled to the distribution of any vested Stock Units on the Applicable Date immediately after the Participant's death in accordance with Paragraph 8 of these Terms and Conditions, and such distribution shall be made (a) as soon as practicable thereafter, and (b) to such beneficiary and in such proportions as the Participant may designate in writing, and in the absence of a designation, to the following persons in the order indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of the Participant's Retirement or Disability prior to the end of the Vesting Period, the Participant shall become entitled to the distribution of any vested Stock Units on the Applicable Date immediately after the Participant's Retirement or Disability in accordance with Paragraph 8 under these Terms and Conditions.
Stock Units shall be distributed only in shares of Common Stock so that, pursuant to Paragraph 1 of these Terms and Conditions and this Paragraph 6, a Participant shall be entitled to receive one share of Common Stock for each Stock Unit in the Participant's Stock Unit Account. No distribution shall be made prior to the first date that shares of Common Stock may be distributed to the Participant without penalty or forfeiture under federal or state laws or regulations governing short-swing trading of securities. In determining whether a distribution would result in such a penalty or forfeiture, the Corporation may rely upon information reasonably available to it or upon representations of the Participant's legal or personal representative.
For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Applicable Date" with respect to a given year means the first trading day of that year, after the vesting of the Stock Units, on which the Corporation's trading blackout is not in effect for the Participant, except that for a Participant subject to Paragraph 9 of these Terms and Conditions, "Applicable Date" with respect to a given year means the first trading day of the fourth quarter of that year on which the Corporation's trading blackout is not in effect for the Participant; or, in any case, such other date in that year as the Committee or the Executive Vice President of Human Resources may determine.
 
 
 
 
whom he or she had a business relationship prior to the start of his or her employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, provided no Confidential Information, directly or indirectly, is used in such Solicitation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code) of the Corporation at termination of employment, as determined in accordance with procedures adopted by the Corporation pursuant to Section 409A of the Code and related regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
THIS STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION. PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. IF YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, PLEASE CLICK THE "I ACCEPT" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, PLEASE CLICK THE "I DECLINE" BUTTON AT THE END OF THIS AGREEMENT, IN WHICH CASE THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE OF NO FORCE AND EFFECT AND YOUR AWARD UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE CANCELLED.
Your performance stock unit grant is subject to the provisions of the Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan (the "Plan") and the performance stock unit award notice (the "Award Notice"). The Award Notice and these Terms and Condition constitute the "Stock Unit Agreement" as defined in the Plan. If there is any conflict between the information in the Stock Unit Agreement and the Plan, the Plan will govern.
 
 
 
 
which the Stock Units vest pursuant to Paragraphs 5 and 8(c) of these Terms and Conditions (a) the Participant violates any provision of Paragraph 7 of these Terms and Conditions, or (b) except as described in Paragraphs 5 and 8 of these Terms and Conditions, the Participant's employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries terminates.
 
For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Retirement" means retirement occurring by reason of the Participant having qualified for a Normal, Early, or Postponed Retirement under The Northern Trust Company Pension Plan.
For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Disability" means a disability that continues for a period of 12 months as defined by Northern Trust's Managed Disability Program.
 
In the event of the Participant's death during the performance period set forth in Exhibit A to these Terms and Conditions, the Participant's beneficiary shall become entitled to the distribution of any vested Stock Units on the Applicable Date immediately after the end of such performance period in accordance with Paragraph 8 of these Terms and Conditions, and such distribution shall be made (a) as soon as practicable thereafter, and
 
(b) to such beneficiary and in such proportions as the Participant may designate in writing, and in the absence of a designation, to the following persons in the order indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of the Participant's Retirement or Disability during the performance period set forth in Exhibit A to these Terms and Conditions, the Participant shall become entitled to the distribution of any vested Stock Units on the Applicable Date immediately after the end of such performance period in accordance with Paragraph 8 of these Terms and Conditions.
Stock Units shall be distributed only in shares of Common Stock so that, pursuant to Paragraph 1 of these Terms and Conditions and this Paragraph 6, a Participant shall be entitled to receive one share of Common Stock for each Stock Unit in the Participant's Stock Unit Account. No distribution shall be made prior to the first date that shares of Common Stock may be distributed to the Participant without penalty or forfeiture under federal or state laws or regulations governing short-swing trading of securities. In determining whether a distribution would result in such a penalty or forfeiture, the Corporation may rely upon information reasonably available to it or upon representations of the Participant's legal or personal representative.
For purposes of these Terms and Conditions, "Applicable Date" with respect to a given year means the first trading day of that year, after the vesting of the Stock Units, on which the Corporation's trading blackout is not in effect for the Participant, or such other date in that year as the Committee or the Executive Vice President of Human Resources may determine.
 
 
 
 
terminate his or her employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or provided any assistance, encouragement, information, or suggestion to any person or entity regarding the solicitation or hiring of any employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries; provided, however, that this clause (b) shall not prohibit the Participant's Solicitation of any Client or Prospective Client with whom he or she had a business relationship prior to the start of his or her employment with the Corporation, provided that no Confidential Information, directly or indirectly, is used in such Solicitation.
 
 
 
 
Participant if the Participant had participated in the Plan under these Terms and Conditions for the full Vesting Period, by the ratio of the number of full calendar months of the Participant's actual participation in the Plan under these Terms and Conditions during the Vesting Period to the number of full calendar months in the Vesting Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
invite, encourage, request, or induce (or to assist another to invite, encourage, request or induce) any Client or Prospective Client of the Corporation, or any of its Subsidiaries, to: (i) surrender, redeem or terminate a product, service or relationship with the Corporation, or any of its Subsidiaries; (ii) obtain any Competitive Service or Product from the Participant or any third party; or (iii) transfer a product, service or relationship from the Corporation, or any of its Subsidiaries, to the Participant or any third party.
 

Exhibit 10.4
This Agreement is entered into as of the 21st day of February, 2006, between Northern Trust Corporation ("Northern") and ("Participant").
                                
The Northern Trust Corporation 2002 Stock Plan ("Plan") provides in Section 10 of the Plan for the awarding of stock units ("Stock Units") to participants, who may include directors of Northern who are not employees of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Corporation"), as approved by the Compensation and Benefits Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Northern.
In the exercise of its discretion under the Plan, the Committee has determined that the Participant should participate in the Plan and receive an award of Stock Units under Section 10 of the Plan, and, accordingly, Northern and the Participant hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
If a Participant's service on the Board of Directors of Northern shall terminate by reason of death, or if the Participant shall die after becoming entitled to distribution hereunder, but prior to receipt of the entire distribution, all cash (as provided in Paragraph 7) or Common Stock then distributable hereunder with respect to the Participant shall be distributed to such individual, trustee, trust or other entity ("Beneficiary") as the Participant shall have designated by an instrument in writing last filed with Northern prior to death, or in the absence of a designation, to the following persons in the order indicated below:
 
 
 
 
 
Such distribution shall be made as soon as practicable after the death of the Participant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amount equal to the then current balance in the Cash Account multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be one, and the denominator of which shall be the number of years remaining in the installment period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Participant and Northern Trust Corporation by its duly authorized officer have signed this Agreement the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
The Stock Units will vest 100% on the date of the Corporation's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 


