FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20060824155456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 23, 2006 Northern Trust Corporation entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representative of the several underwriters, with respect to the offering and sale of $250,000,000 of 5.30% Notes due 2011 (the "Notes"). The Notes will be issued under an Indenture dated as of August 15, 2006 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Indenture").
The offering of the Notes is expected to close on August 28, 2006. The offering of the Notes was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-105423).
Copies of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and the Form of Note are filed as exhibits to this Report on Form 8-K, and each of them is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
Dated: August 23, 2006
August 23, 2006
MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
as Representative of the several Underwriters
c/o Merrill Lynch & Co.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Northern Trust Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters," which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom Merrill Lynch is acting as representative (in such capacity, the "Representative"), with respect to the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in said Schedule A of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.30% Notes due 2011 (the "Securities"). The Securities are to be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of August 15, 2006 (the "Indenture") between the Company and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). The term "Indenture," as used herein, includes the Officer's Certificate (as defined in the Indenture) establishing the form and terms of the Securities pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 3.1 of the Indenture.
The Company understands that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Securities as soon as the Representative deems advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-105423), including the related preliminary prospectus or prospectuses, which registration statement has become effective under the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "1933 Act Regulations") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"). Such registration statement covers the registration of the Securities under the 1933 Act. Promptly after execution and delivery of this Agreement, the
Company will prepare and file a prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Rule 430B ("Rule 430B") of the 1933 Act Regulations and paragraph (b) of Rule 424 ("Rule 424(b)") of the 1933 Act Regulations. Any information included in such prospectus that was omitted from such registration statement at the time it became effective but that is deemed to be part of and included in such registration statement pursuant to paragraph (b) of Rule 430B is referred to as "Rule 430B Information." Each prospectus used before such registration statement became effective and any prospectus used in connection with the offering of the Securities that omitted Rule 430B Information that was used after such effectiveness and prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, is herein called a "preliminary prospectus." Such registration statement, at any given time, including the amendments thereto to such time, the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included therein by 1933 Act Regulations, is herein called the "Registration Statement." Any registration statement filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations is herein referred to as "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement," and after such filing the term "Registration Statement" shall include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. The Registration Statement at the time it originally became effective is herein called the "Original Registration Statement." The final prospectus in the form first furnished to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act at the time of the execution of this Agreement and any preliminary prospectuses that form a part thereof, is herein called the "Prospectus." For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR").
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), which is incorporated by reference in or otherwise deemed by 1933 Act Regulations to be a part of or included in the Registration Statement, such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be.
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(i) hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(b) hereof, and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company
 
(i) . (A) At the time of the most recent amendment to the Original Registration Statement for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1933 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus), (B) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act Regulations and (C) at the date hereof, the Company was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), including not having been and not being an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Status as a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
At the earliest time after filing the Original Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the 1933 Act Regulations) of the Securities and at the date hereof, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
(ii) . The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act. Each of the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective under the 1933 Act. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information from the Company has been complied with.
Registration Statement, Prospectus and Disclosure at Time of Sale
Neither the Company nor any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this paragraph only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act Regulations) had made any offer that is a written communication relating to the Securities prior to the filing of the Original Registration Statement.
At the respective times the Registration Statement, any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at the Closing Time, the Registration Statement, the 462(b) Registration Statement and any amendments and supplements thereto complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act") and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act (the "1939 Act Regulations"), and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto, at the time the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement was issued, and the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented as of the Closing Time, included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
Each preliminary prospectus (including the prospectus or prospectuses filed as part of the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto) complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations, and each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with this offering was identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
As of the Applicable Time, neither (x) the Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus(es) (as defined below) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and the Statutory Prospectus (as defined below), all considered together (collectively, the "General Disclosure Package"), nor (y) any individual Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
As of the time of the filing of the Final Term Sheet (as defined in Section 3(b)), the General Disclosure Package, when considered together with the Final Term Sheet will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
As used in this subsection and elsewhere in this Agreement:
"Applicable Time" means 2:15 p.m. (Eastern time) on August 23, 2006 or such other time as agreed by the Company and Merrill Lynch.
"Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 433"), relating to the Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i), whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
"Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being specified in Schedule C hereto.
"Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not an Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus.
"Statutory Prospectus" as of any time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof.
 
Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the issuer notified or notifies Merrill Lynch as described in Section 3(e), did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any preliminary or other prospectus deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified.
The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein.
(iii) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"), and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, (a) at the time the Original Registration Statement became effective, (b) at the earlier of time the Prospectus was first used and the date and time of the first contract of sale of Securities in this offering and (c) at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
(iv) . The accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included in the Registration Statement are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
Independent Accountants
(v) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes, present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at the dates indicated and the statement of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved. The supporting schedules, if any, present fairly in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein. The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement. All disclosures contained in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus regarding "non-GAAP financial measures" (as such term is defined by the rules and regulations of the Commission) comply with Regulation G under the 1934 Act and Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the 1933 Act Regulations, to the extent applicable.
Financial Statements
(vi) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, there has been no material adverse
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the results of operations or business affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect").
(vii) . The Company is duly registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956; and each subsidiary of the Company which conducts business as a bank is duly authorized to conduct such banking business in each jurisdiction in which such banking business is conducted;
Regulatory Matters
(viii) . The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Good Standing of the Company
(ix) . Each "significant subsidiary" of the Company (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X), including The Northern Trust Company (each a "Significant Subsidiary" and, collectively, the "Significant Subsidiaries") has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each such Significant Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and, except as provided in 12 U.S.C. Section 55, non assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity. The only subsidiaries of the Company are (a) the subsidiaries listed on Schedule D hereto and (b) certain other subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not constitute a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X.
Good Standing of Significant Subsidiaries
(x) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Prospectus (except for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans referred to in the Prospectus or pursuant to the exercise of convertible securities or options referred to in the Prospectus and repurchases pursuant to the Company's stock purchase program). The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non assessable.
Capitalization
 
(xi) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(xii) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and duly qualified under the 1939 Act and, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization of the Indenture
(xiii) . The Securities have been duly authorized and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be in the form contemplated by, and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture.
Authorization of the Securities
(xiv) . The Securities and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to the respective statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus and will be in substantially the respective forms filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
Description of the Securities and the Indenture
(xv) . Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments") except for such defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the Registration Statement (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder and under the Indenture and the Securities have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any subsidiary pursuant to, the Agreements and Instruments (except for such conflicts, breaches, defaults or
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
 
Repayment Events or liens, charges or encumbrances that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary or, except for such violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or any of their assets, properties or operations. As used herein, a "Repayment Event" means any event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any subsidiary.
(xvi) . There is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against or affecting the Company or any subsidiary, (a) which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement (other than as disclosed therein), (b) which, except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (c) which is reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder.
Absence of Proceedings
(xvii) . There are no contracts or documents that are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed.
Accuracy of Exhibits
(xviii) . Neither the Company nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any affiliate of the Company has taken, nor will the Company take or cause any affiliate to take, directly or indirectly, any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which would be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
(xix) . No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities hereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or for the due execution, delivery or performance of the Indenture by the Company, except such as have been already obtained or as may be required under the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations or state securities laws and except for filings to be made under the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Absence of Further Requirements
(xx) . The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "Governmental Licenses") issued by the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure so to possess would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are in compliance with
Possession of Licenses and Permits
 
the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except when the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(xxi) . The Company is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be required, to register as, an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
Investment Company Act
(xxii) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (1) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (2) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets; (3) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (4) the amounts recorded on the Company's consolidated balance sheet for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. Except as described in the Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (I) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (II) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Accounting Controls and Disclosure Controls
The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries employ disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer or officers and principal financial officer or officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.
(xxiii) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(xxiv) . The Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the 1933 Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Pending Proceedings and Examinations
 
(b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representative or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price set forth in Schedule B, the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof.
Securities
(b) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, 227 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60606-5096, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company, at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the third (fourth, if the pricing occurs after 4:30 P.M. (Eastern time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
Payment
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representative for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representative, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities which it has agreed to purchase. Merrill Lynch, individually and not as representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
(c) . The Securities shall be in such denominations ($1,000 or integral multiples thereof) and registered in such names as the Representative may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time. The Securities, which may be in temporary form, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representative in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
SECTION 3. . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
 
(a) . The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B and will notify the Representative immediately, and confirm the notice in writing, (i) when any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities shall become effective, or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus shall have been filed, (ii) of the receipt of any comments from the Commission, regarding the Registration Statement including any document incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of a new registration statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or for additional information, (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or such new registration statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes or of any examination pursuant to Section 8(e) of the 1933 Act concerning the Registration Statement and (v) if the Company becomes the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the 1933 Act in connection with the offering of the Securities. The Company will effect the filings required under Rule 424(b), in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8)), and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such prospectus. The Company will make every reasonable effort to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment. The Company shall pay any additional required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by the 1933 Act Regulations.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests; Payment of Filing Fees
(b) . The Company will give the Representative notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement or new registration statement relating to the Securities or any amendment, supplement or revision to either any preliminary prospectus (including any prospectus included in the Original Registration Statement or amendment thereto at the time it became effective) or to the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and the Company will furnish the Representative with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representative or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. The Company has given the Representative notice of any filings made pursuant to the 1934 Act or 1934 Act Regulations within 48 hours prior to the Applicable Time; the Company will give the Representative notice of its intention to make any such filing during the period from the Applicable Time to the Closing Time and will furnish the Representative with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not file or use any such document to which the Representative or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object. The Company will prepare a final term sheet (the "Final Term Sheet") reflecting the final terms of the Securities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, and shall file such Final Term Sheet as an "issuer free writing prospectus" pursuant to Rule 433 prior to the close of business two business days after the date hereof; provided that the Company shall furnish the Representative with copies of any such Final
Filing of Amendments and Exchange Act Documents; Preparation of Final Term Sheet
 
Term Sheet a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing and will not use or file any such document to which the Representative or counsel to the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
(c) . The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, copies of the signed Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein or otherwise deemed to be a part thereof) and copies of all signed consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representative, without charge, a conformed copy of the Original Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The copies of the Original Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements
(d) . The Company has delivered to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as such Underwriter reasonably requested, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to the electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
(e) . The Company will comply with the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the 1939 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Prospectus. The Company will, during the period when the Prospectus is required be delivered under the 1933 Act, file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time period required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations. If at any time when a prospectus is required by the 1933 Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or to file a new registration statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b), such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to comply with such requirements, the Company will use its best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable (if it is not an automatic shelf registration statement with respect to the Securities) and the Company will
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
furnish to the Underwriters such number of copies of such amendment, supplement or new registration statement as the Underwriters may reasonably request. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement (or any other registration statement relating to the Securities) or the Statutory Prospectus or any preliminary prospectus or included or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, the Company will promptly notify Merrill Lynch and will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
(f) . The Company will use commercially reasonable efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions as the Representative may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect for a period of not less than one year from the date hereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. The Company will also supply the Underwriters with such information as is necessary for the determination of the legality of the Securities for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may request.
Blue Sky Qualifications
(g) . The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide to the Underwriters the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
(h) . The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities in the manner specified in the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
(i) . During a period of 30 days from the date of the Prospectus, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, directly or indirectly, issue, sell, offer or contract to sell, grant any option for the sale of, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, any debt securities of the Company.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
(j) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it has obtained or obtains the prior consent of the Representative, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it has obtained or obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representative, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act Regulations ("Rule 405"), required to be filed with the Commission; provided, however, that prior to the preparation of the Final Term Sheet in accordance with Section 3(b), the Underwriters are authorized to use the information with respect to the final terms of the
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
Securities in communications conveying information relating to the offering to investors. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representative is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus." The Company represents that it has treated or agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rule 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping.
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of the Registration Statement (including financial statements and exhibits) as originally filed and of each amendment thereto, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, any Agreement among Underwriters, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Securities to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each preliminary prospectus, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and of the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto and any costs associated with the preparation of an electronic version of any of the foregoing, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities; provided that the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee shall be paid by either the Company or the Trustee as may be agreed by the Company and the Trustee, (ix) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Securities, including to the extent approved by the Company, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of aircraft and other transportation chartered in connection with the road show and (x) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities.
Expenses
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representative in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out of pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
 
(a) . The Registration Statement, including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, has become effective and at the Closing Time no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act or proceedings therefor initiated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information regarding the Registration Statement, including any documents incorporated by reference therein, shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters. A prospectus containing the Rule 430B Information shall have been filed with the Commission in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) without reliance on Rule 424(b)(8) (or a post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and become effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B). The Company shall have paid any required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time period required by the 1933 Act Regulations.
Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Filing of Prospectus; Payment of Filing Fee
(b) . At the Closing Time, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinions, dated as of the Closing Time, of Schiff Hardin LLP and the Company's Legal Department, counsel for the Company, each in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibits E-1 and E-2 hereto, respectively.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(c) . At the Closing Time, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters with respect to the matters set forth in clauses (i), (ii), (vii) through (xiii), inclusive, and the penultimate paragraph of Exhibit E-1hereto. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York and the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representative. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(d) . At the Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the results of operations or business affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Representative shall have received a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Company has complied, in all material respects, with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to their knowledge, contemplated by the Commission.
Officers' Certificate
 
(e) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representative shall have received from KPMG LLP a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
(f) . At the Closing Time, the Representative shall have received from KPMG LLP a letter, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (e) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(g) . At the Closing Time, the Securities shall be rated at least A1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and at least AA-by Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and the Company shall have delivered to the Representative a letter dated the Closing Time, from each such rating agency, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representative, confirming that the Securities have such ratings; and since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in the rating assigned to the Securities or any of the Company's other debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating agency," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review its rating of the Securities or any of the Company's other debt securities.
Maintenance of Rating
(h) . At the Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
(i) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representative by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
 
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) under the 1933 Act (each, an "Affiliate"), and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Underwriters
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company;
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
(b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), including the Rule 430B Information or any preliminary prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
 
(c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. The indemnifying party shall have the right to select counsel, provided that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified parties. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
(d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a) (ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
 
The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each Underwriter's Affiliates shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
 
SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling any Underwriter, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company, and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) . The Representative may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto) or the General Disclosure Package, any material adverse change in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the results of operations, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representative, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the Nasdaq National Market, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement, or (iv) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States or with respect to Clearstream or Euroclear systems in Europe, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal, New York or Illinois authorities.
Termination; General
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
SECTION 10. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at the Closing Time to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representative shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
 
defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth. If, however, the Representative shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24 hour period, then:
(a) if the number of Defaulted Securities does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, each of the non defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective underwriting obligations hereunder bear to the underwriting obligations of all non-defaulting Underwriters, or
(b) if the number of Defaulted Securities exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased hereunder, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter.
No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either the Representative or the Company shall have the right to postpone Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 10.
SECTION 11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, immediately upon commencement of discussions with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company (and each employee, representative or other agent of the Company) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to the Company relating to such tax treatment and tax structure. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "tax treatment" is the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the term "tax structure" includes any fact that may be relevant to understanding the purported or claimed federal income tax treatment of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Tax Disclosure
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to the Representative at 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 attention of Treasurer.
Notices
SECTION 13. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company, and (e) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
SECTION 14. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
SECTION 15. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 17. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
SECTION 18. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
SECTION 19. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
 
CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED,
as of the date first above written:
MERRILL LYNCH & CO.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
 
For itself and as Representative of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto.
 
 
1. The initial public offering price of the Securities shall be 99.85% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the date of issuance.
2. The purchase price to be paid by the Underwriters for the Securities shall be 99.5% of the principal amount thereof.
3. The interest rate on the Securities shall be 5.30% per annum.
4. Interest shall be payable semi-annually on the 28th of August and February, commencing February 28, 2007.
5. The Securities will mature on August 29, 2011.
6. The Company does not have the right to redeem the Securities prior to maturity.
 
 
Northern Trust Corporation has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents that Northern Trust has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Northern Trust and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, Northern Trust, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus, the prospectus supplement and this term sheet if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-500-5408.
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit E-1
(i) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
(ii) The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement.
(iii) The Company is duly registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956;
(iv) The Northern Trust Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a banking corporation in good standing under the laws of Illinois;
(v) The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(vi) The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Prospectus.
(vii) The Purchase Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(viii) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(ix) The Securities are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, and have been duly authorized by the Company and, assuming that the Securities have been duly authenticated by the Trustee in the manner described in its certificate delivered to you today (which fact such counsel need not determine by an inspection of the Securities), the Securities have been duly executed, issued and delivered by the Company and constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
 
(x) The Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act.
(xi) The Securities and the Indenture conform as to legal matters in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Prospectus.
(xii) The Registration Statement, including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement, has been become effective under the 1933 Act; any required filing of each prospectus relating to the Securities (including the Prospectus) pursuant to Rule 424(b) has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) (without reference to Rule 424(b)(8)); any required filing of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to Rule 433 has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 433(d); and, to the knowledge of such counsel, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or threatened by the Commission.
(xiii) The Registration Statement, including without limitation any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement and the Rule 430B Information, the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, as of their respective effective or issue dates, other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein or omitted therefrom, and the Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1"), as to which we need express no opinion, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
(xiv) The information in the Prospectus under "Certain Regulatory Considerations," "Description of the Debt Securities," "Additional Terms of the Senior Debt Securities", and in the Registration Statement under Item 15, to the extent that it constitutes matters of law, summaries of legal matters, the Company's charter and bylaws or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, has been reviewed by us and is correct in all material respects; and the statements set forth in the Prospectus under the caption "United States Tax Considerations" insofar as they purport to describe provisions of law or legal conclusions referred to therein, are accurate in all material respects.
(xv) No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency, domestic or foreign (other than under the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, which have been obtained, or as may be required under the securities or blue sky laws of the various states, except for the qualification of the Indenture under the 1939 Act, as to which such counsel need express no opinion, and except for filings under the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations) is necessary or required in connection with the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement or the due execution, delivery or performance of the Indenture by the Company or for the offering, issuance, sale or delivery of the Securities.
 
(xvi) The execution, delivery and performance of the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities and the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Purchase Agreement and in the Registration Statement (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus under the caption "Use of Proceeds") and compliance by the Company with its obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event under or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any subsidiary pursuant to any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument, filed as an exhibit to any report filed by the Company under the 1934 Act subsequent to December 31, 2005 (except for such conflicts, breaches, defaults or Repayment Events or liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by laws of the Company, or any applicable law, statute, rule, or regulation, known to such counsel, of any government, or government instrumentality having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties, assets or operations.
(xvii) The Company is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be required, to register as an "investment company" under the 1940 Act.
In addition, such counsel shall state that nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that the Original Registration Statement or any amendment thereto, including the Rule 430B Information (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom and the Form T-1, as to which such counsel need make no statement), at the time such Original Registration Statement or any such amendment became effective, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; that the Registration Statement, including the Rule 430B Information (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom and the Form T-1, as to which such counsel need make no statement), contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or that the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom and the Form T-1, as to which such counsel need make no statement), at the time the Prospectus was issued, at the time any such amended or supplemented prospectus was issued or at the Closing Time, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or that the General Disclosure Package, other than the financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel need make no statement, as of the Applicable Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. With respect to statements
 
contained in the General Disclosure Package, any statement contained in any of the constituent documents shall be deemed to be modified or superseded to the extent that any information contained in subsequent constituent documents modifies or replaces such statement.
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact (but not as to legal conclusions), to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials. Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991).
 
Exhibit E-2
(i) The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non assessable.
(ii) Each Significant Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect; except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non assessable, except as set forth in 12 U.S.C. Section 55, and, to the best knowledge of such counsel, is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity.
(iii) The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which such counsel need express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
(iv) To the knowledge of such counsel, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or threatened, against or affecting the Company or any subsidiary, (a) which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement (other than as disclosed therein), or (b) which is reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder.
(v) To the knowledge of such counsel, there are no contracts or agreements which are material to the operation of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries to which the Company or any subsidiary is a party or by which the Company or any subsidiary or any of their respective property or assets may be bound, which have not been filed as exhibits to the reports filed by the Company under the 1934 Act subsequent to December 31, 2005.
(vi) The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities and the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement (including the issuance and sale of the Securities and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Prospectus under
 
the caption "Use of Proceeds") and compliance by the Company with its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities do not and will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by laws of any Significant Subsidiary, any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, known to such counsel, of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or any of their properties, assets or operations, or any judgment, order, writ, or decree known to such counsel, of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary
Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991).
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact (but not as to legal conclusions), to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
NOTE: This Reconciliation and Tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
1
This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
Note:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I, dated as of August 15, 2006, between Northern Trust Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "), having its principal office at Fifty South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, a national banking association duly organized and existing under the laws of the United States, having a corporate trust office at 227 West Monroe Street, Suite 2600, Chicago, Illinois 60606, as trustee hereunder (herein called the ").
NDENTURE
Corporation"
Trustee"
The Corporation has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of the Corporation's unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein collectively called the "," and individually called a "), which may or may not be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person, to be issued in one or more series as provided in this Indenture.
Securities
Security"
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Corporation, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder that are required to be part of this Indenture and, to the extent so required, shall be governed by such provisions.
N, T, T I W:
OW
HEREFORE
HIS
NDENTURE
ITNESSETH
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Section 1.1 Definitions.
(a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(b) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them in the Trust Indenture Act;
(c) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America at the date of such computation;
 
(d) the words "herein," "hereof," "hereto" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
(e) the word "or" is always used inclusively (for example, the phrase "A or B" means "A or B or both," not "either A or B but not both").
Certain terms used principally in certain Articles are defined in those Articles.
"," when used with respect to any Holder of a Security, has the meaning specified in Section 1.4.
Act
" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate"
" means any Person or Persons authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate one or more series of Securities.
Authenticating Agent"
" means a newspaper, in an official language of the country of publication or in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
Authorized Newspaper"
" means The Northern Trust Company, an Illinois banking corporation, and its successors (whether by consolidation, merger, conversion or transfer of substantially all their assets and business or otherwise) so long as The Northern Trust Company or any successor is a Subsidiary.
Bank"
" means Title 11 of the United States Code or any similar United States federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law"
" means any Security established pursuant to Section 2.1 which is payable to bearer and shall bear the legend specified in Section 2.5.
Bearer Security"
" means the board of directors of the Corporation or any committee thereof duly authorized to act on behalf of the Board of Directors in respect of any matter.
Board of Directors"
 
" means a copy of a resolution, certified by the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary of the Corporation to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution"
" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banks and trust companies located in the municipality in which the Corporate Trust Office is located are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed.
Business Day"
" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission"
" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents, however designated, whether voting or non-voting, of that Person's equity, other than preferred stock of that Person, whether now outstanding or issued after the date of this Indenture, including, without limitation, all series and classes of common stock.
Common Stock"
" means a corporate trust office of the Trustee at which at any particular time this Indenture shall be administered, which office on the date of execution of this Indenture is located at 227 West Monroe Street, Suite 2600, Chicago, Illinois 60606, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities of a series for payment or for registration of transfer or exchange, such term shall mean the office or agency of the Trustee designated for such purpose from time to time.
Corporate Trust Office"
" includes any corporation, association, company, limited liability company, joint stock company or statutory or business trust.
corporation"
"" means the Person named as the "" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "" shall mean such successor corporation.
Corporation
Corporation
Corporation
" has the meaning specified in Section 3.7.
Defaulted Interest"
" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.1, or any successor clearing agency registered under such Act as contemplated by Section 3.5.
Depositary"
" or " means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Dollar"
$"
 
" has the meaning specified in Section 5.1.
Event of Default"
" means a Security bearing the legend specified in Section 2.4 evidencing all or part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or nominee.
Global Security"
"," when used with respect to any Security, means in the case of a Registered Security the Person in whose name the Security is registered in the Security Register and in the case of a Bearer Security the bearer thereof and, when used with respect to any coupon, means the bearer thereof.
Holder
" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof.
Indenture"
"," when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security, which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
Interest
"," when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
"," when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, the President, a Vice President, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary, of such Person and, if no other Person is designated in this Indenture, of the Corporation.
Officer"
" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary, of the Corporation, that complies with the requirements of Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act and is delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate"
" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Corporation, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee, that complies with the requirements of Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act and Section 1.2 of this Indenture.
Opinion of Counsel"
" means any Security, which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2.
Original Issue Discount Security"
"," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
 
(a) Securities of such series theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(b) Securities of such series for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Corporation) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Corporation (if the Corporation shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities and any coupons thereto appertaining andthat if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of which redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
,
(c) Securities of such series which have been paid pursuant to Section 3.6 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Corporation;
and that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series or all series, as the case may be, have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series for quorum purposes, Securities of such series owned by the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series or any Affiliate of the Corporation or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities of such series which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities of such series so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Corporation or of such other obligor.
provided further,
" means any Person authorized by the Corporation to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Corporation.
Paying Agent"
" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity.
Person"
"," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 3.1.
Place of Payment
" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.6 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security"
 
"," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
"," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
" means any Security established pursuant to Section 2.1 that is registered in the Security Register.
Registered Security"
" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Registered Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.1.
Regular Record Date"
" or " means a written request or order signed in the name of the Corporation, by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Request"
Order"
"," when used with respect to the Trustee, means any Vice President, any assistant secretary, any assistant treasurer, any cashier, any assistant cashier, any senior trust officer, any trust officer or assistant trust officer, any assistant controller or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing corporate trust functions on behalf of the Trustee and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
has the meaning specified in Section 10.6
"Section 10.6 Indemnitee"
and " have the meanings stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, the term "Securities," with respect to any such Person, shall mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
"Securities"
Security"
provided,
" and " have the respective meanings specified in Section 3.5.
Security Register"
Security Registrar"
" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.7.
Special Record Date"
"," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security or a coupon representing such installment of interest as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
 
" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Corporation and one or more other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary"
" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and any reference herein to the Trust Indenture Act or a particular provision thereof shall mean such Trust Indenture Act or provision, as the case may be, as amended or replaced from time to time or as supplemented from time to time by rules or regulations adopted by the Commission under or in furtherance of the purposes of such Trust Indenture Act or provision, as the case may be.
Trust Indenture Act"
" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such with respect to one or more series of Securities pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter the term "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder and, if at any time there is more than one such Person, the term "Trustee," as used with respect to the Securities of any series, shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee"
" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia), its territories and possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United States"
" means any Person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual, a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, or a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, for United States federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual or a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.
United States Alien"
"," when used with respect to the Corporation or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
Vice President
" means the class or classes of stock which ordinarily have voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Voting Stock"
Upon any application or request by the Corporation to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Corporation shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that, in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel need be furnished under this Section 1.2.
Section 1.2 Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
Every Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
(a) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Section 1.3 Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
Any certificate or opinion of an Officer of the Corporation may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such Officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an Officer or Officers of the Corporation, stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Corporation, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
.
Section 1.4
Acts of Holders; Record Dates
(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders may, alternatively, be embodied in and evidenced by the record of Holders of Securities voting in favor thereof, either in person or by proxies duly appointed in writing, at any meeting of Holders of Securities duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article
 
Thirteen, or a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Corporation or both. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the " of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments and so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.1) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Corporation if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 13.6.
Act"
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Global Security, nothing herein shall prevent the Corporation, the Trustee, or any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee, from giving effect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in this Indenture to be given or taken by a Depositary or impair, as between a Depositary and such holders of beneficial interests, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of the Depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of any Security.
Without limiting the generality of this Section 1.4, unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to this Indenture, a Holder, including a Depositary that is a Holder of a Global Security, may make, give or take, by a proxy or proxies duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders, and a Depositary that is a Holder of a Global Security may give its proxy or proxies to the Depositary's participants or the beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security, as the case may be, through such Depositary's standing instructions and customary practices.
Subject to the next succeeding paragraph, the Corporation may, in the circumstances permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, fix any day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities of any series entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, or to vote on any action, authorized or permitted to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series. If not set by the Corporation prior to the first solicitation of a Holder of Securities of such series made by any Person in respect of any such action, or in the case of any such vote, prior to such vote, the record date for any such action or vote shall be the 30th day prior to such first solicitation or vote, or, if later, the date of the most recent list of Holders required to be provided pursuant to Section 7.1, as the case may be. With regard to any record date for action to be taken by the Holders of one or more series of Securities, only the Holders of Securities of such series on such date (or their duly designated proxies) shall be entitled to give or take, or vote on, the relevant action.
The Trustee shall fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons who are beneficial owners of interests in any permanent Global Security held by a Depositary and who are entitled under the procedures of such Depositary to make, give or take, by a proxy or proxies duly appointed in writing, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided in or pursuant to this Indenture to be made, given or taken by
 
Holders. If such a record date is fixed, the Holders on such record date or their duly appointed proxy or proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to make, give or take such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. No such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action shall be valid or effective if made, given or taken more than 90 days after such record date.
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any manner that the Trustee deems sufficient.
(c) The principal amount and serial numbers of Registered Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d) The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person executing any such instrument or writing as a Holder of Securities, and the date of his holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Bearer Securities or by a certificate executed, as depositary, by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the Bearer Securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person executing such instrument or writing as a Holder of Securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee and the Corporation may assume that such ownership of any Bearer Security continues until (1) another certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Bearer Security is produced, or (2) such Bearer Security is produced to the Trustee by some other Person, or (3) such Bearer Security is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security, or (4) such Bearer Security is no longer Outstanding.
(e) The fact and date of execution of any such instrument or writing, the authority of the Person executing the same, the principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by the Person so executing such instrument or writing and the date of holding the same may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient; and the Trustee may in any instance require further proof with respect to any of the matters referred to in this Section.
(f) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, election, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Corporation in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, election, waiver or other Act of Holders of a series of Securities or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
Section 1.5 Notices, Etc., to Trustee, Corporation.
 
(a) the Trustee of such series by any Holder of a Security of such series or by the Corporation shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee of such series at its Corporate Trust Office, or
(b) the Corporation by the Trustee of such series or by any Holder of a Security of such series shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Corporation, addressed to the attention of its Corporate Secretary, at Fifty South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee of such series by the Corporation.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Securities (of any series) of any event,
Section 1.6 Notice to Holders of Securities; Waiver.
(a) such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Registered Securities of such series if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of a Registered Security of such series affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such Notice; and
(b) such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Bearer Securities of such series if published in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and, if the Securities of such series are then listed on The London Stock Exchange and the Republic of Ireland and such stock exchange shall so require, in London and, if the Securities of such series are then listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and such stock exchange shall so require, in Luxembourg and, if the Securities of such series are then listed on any other stock exchange outside the United States and such stock exchange shall so require, in any other required city outside the United States or, if not practicable, in Europe, on a Business Day at least twice, the first such publication to be not earlier than the earliest date and not later than the latest date prescribed for the giving of such notice.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder of a Registered Security shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities or the sufficiency of any notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities given as provided above.
In case by reason of the suspension of publication of any Authorized Newspaper or Authorized Newspapers or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to publish any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities of any series as provided above, then such notification to Holders of such Bearer Securities as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee for such series shall constitute sufficient notice to such Holders for every purpose hereunder. Neither failure to give notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, nor any defect in any notice so published, shall affect the sufficiency of any notice mailed to Holders of Registered Securities as provided above.
 
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders of Securities shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, election or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
Section 1.7 Language of Notices, Etc.
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with any duties under any required provision of the Trust Indenture Act deemed included herein by Section 318(c) thereof, such required provision shall control.
Section 1.8 Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 1.9 Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Corporation shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Section 1.10 Successors and Assigns.
In case any provision in this Indenture or the Securities or coupons shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.11 Separability Clause.
Nothing in this Indenture or the Securities or coupons, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, their successors hereunder and the Holders of Securities and coupons, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 1.12 Benefits of Indenture.
This Indenture and the Securities and coupons shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal law of the State of New York.
Section 1.13 Governing Law.
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities or coupons) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity; that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Section 1.14 Legal Holidays.
provided,
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Corporation or any Affiliate thereof. No such indenture, loan or debt agreement may be used to interpret this Indenture.
Section 1.15 No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 1.16 Execution in Counterparts.
The Registered Securities, if any, of each series and the Bearer Securities, if any, of each series and related coupons and the Global Securities, if any, issued pursuant to this Indenture shall be in such form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution of the Corporation or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the Officers executing such Securities or coupons, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities or coupons (but which do not affect the rights or duties of the Trustee). If the forms of Securities or coupons of any series are established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary of the Corporation and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Order of the Corporation contemplated by Section 3.3 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities or coupons.
Section 2.1 Forms Generally.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article or Article Six.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, the Securities of each series shall be issuable in global and registered form without coupons. If so provided as contemplated by Section 3.1, the Securities of a series also shall be issuable in bearer form, with or without interest coupons attached.
The definitive Securities and coupons, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner permitted by the rules of any applicable securities exchange, all as determined by the Officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons.
Subject to Section 6.14, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Section 2.2 Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
This is one of the Securities of the series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, any such Security may provide that it or any number of such Securities shall represent the aggregate amount of all Outstanding Securities of such series (or such lesser amount as is permitted by the terms thereof) from time to time endorsed thereon and may also provide that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be increased or reduced to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of any Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, or changes in the rights of Holders, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made in such manner and by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Order of the Corporation to be delivered pursuant to Sections 3.3 or 3.4 with respect thereto. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.3 and, if applicable, Section 3.4, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Order of the Corporation. If the Order of the Corporation pursuant to Sections 3.3 or 3.4 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Corporation with respect to a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not be accompanied by or contained in an Officers' Certificate and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
Section 2.3 Securities in Global Form.
Any Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, or in such other form that is acceptable to the Depositary and the Trustee:
Section 2.4 Form of Legend for Global Securities.
"Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary."
Any Bearer Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Section 2.5 Form of Legend for Bearer Securities.
"Any United States person who holds this Security shall be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitation provided in Sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended."
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
Section 3.1 Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
 
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
(a) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from securities of all other series issued by the Corporation);
(b) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 9.6 or 11.7);
(c) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
(d) the right, if any, to extend the Stated Maturity on which the Corporation shall pay any installment of principal of or interest on the Securities of the series;
(e) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or any method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the basis upon which interest shall be computed if other than that specified in Section 3.10, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for the interest payable on Registered Securities on any Interest Payment Date;
(f) the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable;
(g) whether Securities of the series may be redeemed and, if so, the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation;
(h) the obligation, if any, of Corporation to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(i) the right, if any, of the Corporation or a third party to redeem or purchase Securities of the series and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such right;
(j) whether Bearer Securities of the series are to be issuable;
(k) if Bearer Securities of the series are to be issuable, whether interest in respect of any portion of a temporary Bearer Security in global form (representing all of the Outstanding Bearer Securities of the series) payable in respect of an Interest Payment Date prior
 
to the exchange of such temporary Bearer Security for definitive Securities of the series shall be paid to any clearing agency with respect to the portion of such temporary Bearer Security held for its account and, in such event, the terms and conditions (including any certification requirements) upon which any such interest payment received by a clearing agency shall be credited to the Persons entitled to interest payable on such Interest Payment Date;
(l) the date as of which any Bearer Securities of the series, any temporary Bearer Security in global form and any Global Securities shall be dated if other than the date of original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued;
(m) the denominations in which Registered Securities of the series, if any, shall be issuable if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, and the denominations in which Bearer Securities of the series, if any, shall be issuable if other than the denomination of $5,000;
(n) the currency or currencies, including composite currencies, in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of the series shall be payable (if other than the currency of the United States of America);
(o) if the amount of payments of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(p) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2;
(q) any additional Events of Default or additional covenants of the Corporation pertaining to the Securities of the series
;
(r) whether and under what circumstances the Corporation shall pay additional amounts on the Securities of the series held by a Person who is a United States Alien in respect of taxes or similar charges withheld or deducted and, if so, whether the Corporation shall have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such additional amounts;
(s) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, if so, (a) the Depositary with respect to such Global Security or Securities and (b) the circumstances under which beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security may exchange such interest for Securities of the same series and of like tenor and of any authorized form and denomination, and the circumstances under which any such exchange may occur, if other than as set forth in Section 3.5;
(t) if any Securities of the series are to be issued in global form and are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, the form and terms of such certificates, documents, or conditions;
 
(u) the date or dates, if any, after which the Holders may convert Securities of the series into shares of Common Stock or preferred stock of the Corporation and the terms for that conversion; and
(v) any other terms of the Securities of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series and the coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities of such series, if any, shall be substantially identical except, in the case of Registered Securities, as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution and set forth in the Officers' Certificate, or provided in the indenture supplemental hereto, establishing the series.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary of the Corporation and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series. Such Board Resolution may provide general terms or parameters for Securities of such series and may provide that the specific terms of particular Securities of such series, and the Persons authorized to determine such terms or parameters may be determined in accordance with or pursuant to the Order of the Corporation referred to in the third paragraph of Section 3.3.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, the Registered Securities of each series, if any, shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and the Bearer Securities of each series, if any, shall be issuable in the denomination of $5,000.
Section 3.2 Denominations.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Corporation by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its President or one of its Vice Presidents, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Corporate Secretary or one of its Assistant Corporate Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. Coupons shall bear the facsimile signature of the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation.
Section 3.3 Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
Securities and coupons bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time relevant to the authorization thereof the proper officers of the Corporation shall bind the Corporation, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Corporation may deliver Securities of any series executed on behalf of the Corporation to the Trustee for authentication by the Trustee together with an Order of the Corporation for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; that in connection with its original issuance, a Bearer Security may be delivered only outside the United States and only if the Trustee shall have received from the Person entitled to receive such Bearer Security a
provided,
 
certificate in the form required by Section 3.11; and that, with respect to Securities of a series constituting a medium-term note program, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver Securities of such series for original issue from time to time in the aggregate principal amount established for such series pursuant to such procedures acceptable to the Trustee and to such recipients as may be specified from time to time by an Order of the Corporation. The maturity dates, original issue dates, interest rates and any other terms of the Securities of a subseries of any medium-term note program shall be determined by or pursuant to such Order of the Corporation and such procedures.
provided further,
In authenticating Securities in accordance with an Order of the Corporation, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Sections 315(a) through 315(d) of the Trust Indenture Act) shall be fully protected in relying upon:
(a) the Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto establishing the form of the Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.1 and the terms of the Securities of the series pursuant to Section 3.1 (or, in the case of a Board Resolution, pursuant to which such form and terms are established);
(b) an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 3.1 and complying with Section 1.2; and
(c) an Opinion of Counsel complying with Section 1.2 stating,
(i) that the forms of such Securities and coupons, if any, have been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or by an indenture supplemental hereto, as permitted by Section 2.1 and in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(ii) that the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or by an indenture supplemental hereto, as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1 and in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(iii) that such Securities, together with the coupons, if any, appertaining thereto, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Corporation in the manner and subject to any customary conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, shall constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Corporation entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, except to the extent that the enforcement of such obligations may be subject to bankruptcy laws or insolvency laws or other similar laws, general principles of equity and such other qualifications as such counsel shall conclude are customary or do not materially affect the rights of the Holders of such Securities;
(iv) that all laws and requirements in respect of the execution and delivery of the Securities have been complied with; and
 
(v) such other matters as the Trustee may reasonably request.
With respect to Securities of a subseries of a medium-term note program, the Trustee may conclusively rely on the documents and opinion delivered pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 3.1 and this Section 3.3, as applicable (unless revoked by superseding comparable documents or opinions), with respect to the establishment of the medium-term note program as to the authorization of the Board of Directors of the Corporation of any Securities delivered hereunder, the form thereof and the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.1 and of the preceding two paragraphs, if not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 3.1 or the documents otherwise required pursuant to the preceding clauses (a), (b) or (c) prior to or at the time of issuance of each Security, but such documents shall be delivered prior to or at the time of issuance of the first Security of such series and shall pertain to all of the Securities of such series. After any such first delivery, any separate Request by the Corporation that the Trustee authenticate Securities of such series for original issue shall be deemed to be a certification by the Corporation that all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to authentication and delivery of such Securities continue to have been complied with.
If such forms or terms have been so established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or by an indenture supplemental hereto as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities of such series:
(x) if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken;
(y) if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors, executive committee or a committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to Holders of any Outstanding series of Securities; or
(z) if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture shall affect the Trustee's own rights, duties and immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not acceptable to the Trustee.
If the Corporation shall establish pursuant to Section 3.1 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section and the Order of the Corporation with respect to such series, authenticate and deliver one or more Global Securities in permanent form that (A) shall represent and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by such Global Security or Securities, (B) shall be registered, if in registered form, in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities or the nominee of such Depositary, (C) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction and (D) shall bear a legend as required by Section 2.4.
 
Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Each Global Security, each Bearer Security and any temporary Bearer Security in global form shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated by Section 3.1.
No Security or related coupon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. Except as permitted by Section 3.6 or 3.7, the Trustee shall not authenticate and deliver any Bearer Security unless all appurtenant coupons for interest then matured and paid or payment duly provided for have been detached and canceled.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Corporation may execute, and upon an Order of the Corporation the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form or, if authorized, in bearer form with one or more coupons or without coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities (but which do not affect the rights or duties of the Trustee). In the case of Bearer Securities of any series, such temporary Securities may be in global form, representing all of the outstanding Bearer Securities of such series.
Section 3.4 Temporary Securities.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form, which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions thereof, if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Corporation shall cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Corporation in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series (accompanied by any unmatured coupons appertaining thereto), the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor (at an office or agency of the Corporation in the case of Bearer Securities) a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor; that no definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Registered Security; and that no definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Bearer Security unless the Trustee shall have received from the Person entitled to receive the definitive Bearer Security a certificate in the form required by Section 3.11. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities of any series, including temporary Securities in global form, shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
provided,
provided further,
The Corporation shall cause to be kept at one of its offices or agencies designated pursuant to Section 10.2 a register (referred to as the ") in which, subject to such regulations as it
Section 3.5 Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
Security Register"
 
may prescribe, the Corporation shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities of each series and of transfers and exchanges of Registered Securities of such series. Said office or agency is hereby appointed the security registrar (referred to as the ") for the purpose of registering Registered Securities of each series and transfers and exchanges of Registered Securities of such series as herein provided.
Security Registrar"
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment maintained for such purpose for such series, the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series, Stated Maturity and original issue date, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount.
At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series (except a Global Security representing all or a portion of such series) may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series, Stated Maturity and original issue date, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency.
At the option of the Holder, Bearer Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series, Stated Maturity and original issue date, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Bearer Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency, with all unmatured coupons and all matured coupons in default thereto appertaining. If the Holder of a Bearer Security is unable to produce any such unmatured coupon or coupons or matured coupon or coupons in default, such exchange may be effected if the Bearer Securities are accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Corporation and the Trustee in an amount equal to the face amount of such missing coupon or coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Corporation and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security surrenders to any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which such a payment shall have been made, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount of such payment; that except as otherwise provided in Section 10.2, interest represented by coupons shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons at an office or agency located outside the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at any such office or agency in exchange for a Registered Security of the same series after the close of business at such office or agency on (1) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (2) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date or proposed date of payment, as the case may be.
provided,
Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Corporation, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Corporation or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.4, 9.6 or 11.7 not involving any transfer.
The Corporation shall not be required (a) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange Securities of any series during a period of 15 Business Days immediately preceding the date notice is given identifying the serial numbers of the Securities of that series called for redemption, or (b) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, or (c) to exchange any Bearer Security so selected for redemption except that such a Bearer Security may be exchanged for a Registered Security of that series, that such Registered Security shall be immediately surrendered for redemption with written instruction for payment consistent with the provisions of this Indenture.
provided,
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to this Section 3.5 or Sections 3.4, 3.6, 9.6 or 11.7 for Securities registered in the name of, and a transfer of a Global Security of any series may be registered to, any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or its nominee only if:
(i) such Depositary notifies the Corporation that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security, or such Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Corporation within 90 days;
(ii) the Corporation executes and delivers to the Trustee an Order of the Corporation that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable and the transfer thereof so registrable; or
(iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default or an event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series.
Upon the occurrence in respect of any Global Security of any series of any one or more of the conditions specified in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the preceding sentence or such other conditions
 
as may be specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for such series, then without unnecessary delay, but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, the Corporation shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Security, executed by the Corporation.
On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such Global Securities shall be surrendered from time to time by the Depositary and in accordance with instructions given to the Trustee and the Depositary (which instructions shall be in writing but need not be contained in or accompanied by an Officers' Certificate or be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel), as shall be specified in the Order of the Corporation with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Corporation's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without service charge. The Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in exchange for each portion of such surrendered Global Security, a like aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such Global Security to be exchanged which (unless the Securities of the series are not issuable both as Bearer Securities and as Registered Securities, in which case the definitive Securities exchanged for the Global Security shall be issuable only in the form in which the Securities of the series are issuable, as specified as contemplated by Section 3.1) shall be in the form of Bearer Securities or Registered Securities, or any combination thereof, as shall be specified by the beneficial owner thereof; that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 Business Days before any selection of Securities of the series to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date; and that (unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1) no Bearer Security delivered in exchange for a portion of a Global Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States.
provided,
provided further,
Promptly following any such exchange in part, such Global Security shall be returned by the Trustee to the Depositary in accordance with the instructions of the Corporation referred to above. If a Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a Global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on any Regular Record Date for such Security and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the next Interest Payment Date, or any Special Record Date for such Security and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, interest shall not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Registered Security, but shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such Global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
If any mutilated Security or a Security with a mutilated coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the Trustee, the Corporation shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series, Stated Maturity and original issue date, and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security.
Section 3.6 Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
 
If there shall be delivered to the Corporation and the Trustee (1) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security or coupon and (2) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Corporation or the Trustee that such Security or coupon has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Corporation shall execute and upon its Request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for the Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains (with all appurtenant coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen), a new Security of the same series, Stated Maturity and original issue date, and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Corporation in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security or coupon; that payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and any interest on Bearer Securities shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 10.2, be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States; and that with respect to any such coupons, interest represented thereby (but not any additional amounts payable as provided in Section 10.6), shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto.
provided,
provided further,
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Corporation may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series, with its coupons, if any, issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, or in exchange for a Security to which a destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Corporation, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security and its coupons, if any, or the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and any such new Security and coupons, if any, shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series and their coupons, if any, duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.1 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Registered Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Interest, if any, on any Bearer Securities shall be paid to Holders of coupons. In case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security of such series
Section 3.7 Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
 
after the close of business (at an office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series) on any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business (at such office or agency) on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date and interest shall not be payable on such Interest Payment Date in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but shall be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Any interest on a Registered Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Corporation, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below:
Defaulted Interest
(a) The Corporation may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Corporation shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Registered Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Corporation shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as provided in this clause. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Corporation of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Corporation, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Registered Securities of such series at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. The Trustee may, in its discretion, in the name and at the expense of the Corporation, cause a similar notice to be published at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment, but such publication shall not be a condition precedent to the establishment of such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (b). In case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series in exchange for a Registered Security of such series after the close of business at such office or agency on any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such proposed date of payment and Defaulted Interest shall not be payable on such proposed date of payment in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but shall be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
 
(b) The Corporation may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Corporation to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the absolute owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.7) interest, if any, on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security is overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 3.8 Persons Deemed Owners.
The Corporation, the Trustee and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee may treat the bearer of any Bearer Security and the bearer of any coupon as the absolute owner of such Security or coupon for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security or coupon is overdue, and neither the Corporation, the Trustee nor any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No holder of any beneficial interest in any Global Security held on its behalf by a Depositary (or its nominee) shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to such Global Security or any Security represented thereby, and such Depositary may be treated by the Corporation, the Trustee, and any agent of the Corporation or the Trustee as the owner of such Global Security or any Security represented thereby for all purposes whatsoever. None of the Corporation, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
All Securities and coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. The Corporation may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Corporation may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall
Section 3.9 Cancellation.
 
be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities and coupons held by the Trustee shall be destroyed and certification of their destruction delivered to the Corporation, unless an Order of the Corporation shall direct that canceled Securities be returned to the Corporation.
The repayment of any principal amount of Securities pursuant to any option of the Holder to require repayment of Securities before their Stated Maturity, for purposes of this Section 3.9, shall not operate as a payment, redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the Corporation, at its option, shall deliver or surrender the same to the Trustee with an Order of the Corporation directing that such Securities be canceled.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1(d) for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Section 3.10 Computation of Interest.
Whenever any provision of this Indenture or the form of Security contemplates that certification be given by a Person entitled to receive a Bearer Security, such certification shall be provided substantially in the form of the following certificate, with only such changes as shall be approved by the Corporation and of which the Corporation shall have given written notice to the Trustee:
Section 3.11 Form of Certification by a Person Entitled to Receive a Bearer Security.
This is to certify that the above-captioned Security is not being acquired by or on behalf of a United States person, or for offer to resell or for resale to a United States person, or, if a beneficial interest in the Security is being acquired by a United States person, that such person is a financial institution or is acquiring through a financial institution and that the Security is held by a financial institution that has agreed in writing to comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder and that such person or financial institution is not purchasing for offer to resell or for resale within the United States. If this certificate is being provided by a clearing organization, it is based on statements provided to it by its member organizations. As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), its territories and possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction, and "United States person" means any citizen or resident of the United States, any corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof and any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source. If the undersigned is a dealer, the undersigned agrees to obtain a similar certificate from each person entitled to delivery of any of the above-captioned
 
Securities in bearer form purchased from it; that if the undersigned has actual knowledge that the information contained in such a certificate is false, the undersigned shall not deliver a Security in temporary or definitive bearer form to the person who signed such certificate notwithstanding the delivery of such certificate to the undersigned.
provided,
We undertake to advise you by telecopy if the above statement as to beneficial ownership is not correct on the date of delivery of the above-captioned Securities in bearer form as to all of such Securities.
We understand that this certificate is required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
Dated: , 20                                                                                                                             
                        
    
                                                          
 
The Corporation in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP," "ISIN" or "Common Code" numbers (if then generally in use) and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers, "ISIN" or "Common Code" in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; , , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.
Section 3.12 CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code Numbers.
provided
however
This Indenture shall upon a Request of the Corporation cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange or conversion of Securities herein expressly provided for, and any right to receive additional amounts, as provided in Section 10.6), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Corporation, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when:
Section 4.1 Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
(a) either
(i) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered and all coupons appertaining thereto (other than (w) coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities surrendered for exchange for Registered Securities and maturing after such exchange, whose surrender is not required or has been waived as provided in Section 3.5, (x) Securities and coupons which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.6, (y) coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender has been waived as provided in Section 11.6, and (z) Securities and coupons for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Corporation and thereafter repaid to the Corporation or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 10.3) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(ii) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
(1) have become due and payable, or
(2) shall become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(3) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Corporation,
and the Corporation, in the case of (ii)(1), (2) or (3) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust dedicated solely for such purpose an amount sufficient, without reinvestment, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities and coupons not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(b) the Corporation has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Corporation; and
(c) the Corporation has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate of the Corporation and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
In the event there are Securities of two or more series hereunder, the Trustee shall be required to execute an instrument acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture only if requested to do so with respect to Securities of all series as to which it is Trustee and if the other conditions thereto are met. In the event there are two or more Trustees hereunder, then the effectiveness of any such instrument shall be conditioned upon receipt of such instruments from all Trustees hereunder.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Corporation to the Trustee under Section 6.7, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 6.14 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (ii) of clause (a) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Sections 3.5, 3.6, 4.2, 10.2 and 10.3 shall survive.
Subject to the provision of the last paragraph of Section 10.3, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.1 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, the coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Corporation acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons
Section 4.2 Application of Trust Money.
 
entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee, but such money need not be segregated from other funds, except to the extent required by law.
"," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
Section 5.1 Events of Default.
Event of Default
(a) the Corporation defaults in the payment of any interest (including any additional amounts due under Section 10.6 as specified therein) upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(b) the Corporation defaults in the payment of the principal (including any additional amounts due under Section 10.6 as specified therein) of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
(c) the Corporation defaults in the deposit of any sinking fund payment when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series; or
(d) the Corporation defaults in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Corporation in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in or pursuant to this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Corporation by the Trustee, or to the Corporation and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(e) a default under any bond, debenture, note or other evidence of indebtedness for money borrowed by the Corporation (including a default with respect to Securities of any series other than that series) or under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any indebtedness for money borrowed by the Corporation (including this Indenture), whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, which default shall constitute a failure to pay in excess of $25,000,000 of the principal or interest of such indebtedness when due and payable after the expiration of any applicable grace period with respect thereto or shall have resulted in such indebtedness in an amount in excess of $25,000,000 becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, without such indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been rescinded or annulled within a period of 30 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified
 
mail, to the Corporation by the Trustee or to the Corporation and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default and requiring the Corporation to cause such indebtedness to be discharged or cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; that subject to the provisions of Sections 6.1 and 6.2, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of such default unless either (a) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee assigned to Worldwide Securities Services (or any successor division or department of the Trustee) shall have actual knowledge of such default or (b) the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof from the Corporation, from any Holder, from the holder of any such indebtedness or from the trustee under any such mortgage indenture or other instrument; or
provided,
(f) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (a) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Corporation in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (b) a decree or order adjudging the Corporation bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition by one or more Persons other than the Corporation or any Affiliates thereof seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Corporation under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official for the Corporation or for any substantial part of the property of the Corporation, or ordering the liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(g) the commencement by the Corporation of a case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of it in a case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official in respect of it or any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or its admission in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or its taking of corporate action in furtherance of any such action; or
(h) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Corporation (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.
Section 5.2 Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
 
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Corporation and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(a) the Corporation has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay:
(i) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series;
(ii) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates, if any, prescribed therefor in such Securities;
(iii) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities; and
(iv) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due to the Trustee under Section 6.7;
and
(b) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series, which has become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13.
No such rescission and annulment shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
The Corporation covenants that if:
Section 5.3 Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
(a) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(b) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof and such default continues for a period of three Business Days,
the Corporation shall, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and coupons, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, with interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest, to the extent that payment of such
 
interest shall be legally enforceable, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due to the Trustee under Section 6.7.
If the Corporation fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Corporation or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Corporation or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture, or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Corporation or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Corporation or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Corporation or any other obligor for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
Section 5.4 Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any) and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due to the Trustee under Section 6.7) and of the Holders of Securities and coupons allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
(b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder of Securities and coupons to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders of Securities and coupons, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.7.
 
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder of a Security or coupon any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or coupons or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder of a Security or coupon in any such proceeding.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or coupons may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or coupons or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities and coupons in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 5.5 Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities or Coupons.
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, upon presentation of the Securities or coupons, or both, as the case may be, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Section 5.6 Application of Money Collected.
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.7; and
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities and coupons in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, respectively; and
THIRD: To the Corporation.
No Holder of any Security of any series or any related coupons shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
Section 5.7 Limitation on Suits.
(a) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(b) the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(c) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
 
(d) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(e) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security or coupon shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.7) interest, if any, on such Security or payment of such coupon on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security or coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 5.8 Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
.
If the Trustee or any Holder of a Security or coupon has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Corporation, the Trustee and the Holders of Securities and coupons shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 5.9 Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons in the last paragraph of Section 3.6, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise shall, not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 5.10 Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security or coupon to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or coupons may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities or coupons, as the case may be.
Section 5.11 Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
 
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series; that:
Section 5.12 Control by Holders of Securities.
provided,
(a) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, expose the Trustee to personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joined therein; and
(b) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series and any related coupons waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default:
Section 5.13 Waiver of Past Defaults.
(a) in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series; or
(b) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security or coupon by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder of any Security or coupon for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security or the payment of any coupon on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
Section 5.14 Undertaking for Costs.
 
The Corporation covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Corporation (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 5.15 Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
Section 6.1 Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
(a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series:
(i) the Trustee undertakes to perform, with respect to Securities of such series, such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may, with respect to Securities of such series, conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
(b) In case an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise, with respect to Securities of such series, such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
(c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(i) this subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of subsection (a) of this Section;
(ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
 
(iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
(iv) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, notice of all such defaults hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; that except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series; and that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 5.1(d) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
Section 6.2 Notice of Defaults.
provided,
provided further,
Subject to Sections 315(a) through 315(d) of the Trust Indenture Act:
Section 6.3 Certain Rights of Trustee.
(a) the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Corporation mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Request or Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities of any series pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Corporation personally or by agent or attorney;
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; and
(h) except as otherwise provided in Section 5.1(e), the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless either (a) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee assigned to its Worldwide Securities Services unit (or any successor division or department of the Trustee) shall have actual knowledge of the Event of Default or (b) written notice of such Event of Default shall have been given to the Trustee by the Corporation, any other obligor on such Securities or by any Holder of such Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities (except the Trustee's certificates of authentication) and in any coupons shall be taken as the statements of the Corporation, and the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or coupons, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Corporation are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. The Trustee or any Authenticating Agent shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Corporation of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 6.4 Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
 
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Corporation, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and coupons and, subject to Sections 310(b) and 311 of the Trust Indenture Act, may otherwise deal with the Corporation or an Affiliate thereof with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
Section 6.5 May Hold Securities.
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Corporation.
Section 6.6 Money Held in Trust.
The Corporation agrees:
Section 6.7 Compensation and Reimbursement
.
(a) to pay to the Trustee and each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(b) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel and any Authenticating Agent), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith; and
(c) to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Trustee and its directors, employees, Affiliates and agents ("indemnitees") for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense (including the fees and expenses of counsel) arising out of or incurred in connection with (i) the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, except to the extent with respect to any indemnitee that such loss, liability or expense was due to such indemnitee's negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith, and (ii) any action taken, suffered or omitted upon the Order of the Corporation.
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Corporation under this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on particular Securities. The obligations of the Corporation under this Section shall survive the discharge of this Indenture and the succession of the Trustee hereunder.
If at any time the Trustee fails to comply with the obligations imposed upon it by the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to Securities of any series after written request therefor by the Corporation or by any Holder of a Security of such series who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months then, (1) the Corporation, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities or the Securities of such series, or (2) subject to Section 315(e) of the Trust Indenture Act, any Holder who has been a bona fide
Section 6.8 Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
 
Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities of such series and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees. The Trustee shall comply with the terms of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, or any other Person permitted by the Trust Indenture Act to act as trustee under an indenture qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and that has a combined capital and surplus (computed in accordance with Section 310(a)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act) of at least $50,000,000, is subject to supervision or examination by federal, state or District of Columbia authority and is not otherwise ineligible under Section 310(a)(5) of the Trust Indenture Act. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee ceases to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
Section 6.9 Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
.
Section 6.10 Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11.
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Corporation. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 6.11 is not delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Trustee and the Corporation.
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 6.8 after written request therefor by the Corporation or by any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months; or
(2) the Trustee ceases to be eligible under Section 6.9 and fails to resign after written request therefor by the Corporation or by any such Holder; or
 
(3) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting or is adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property is appointed or any public officer takes charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
then, in any such case, (i) the Corporation by Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 315(e) of the Trust Indenture Act, any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all other similarly situated Holders, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
(e) If the Trustee resigns, is removed or becomes incapable of acting, or if a vacancy occurs in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Corporation, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series is appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Corporation and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 6.11, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Corporation. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series is so appointed by the Corporation or the Holders of Securities and accepts appointment in the manner required by Section 6.11, any Holder of a Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(f) The Corporation shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Registered Securities, if any, of such series as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register and, if Securities of such series are issuable as Bearer Securities, by publishing notice of such event once in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment located outside the United States. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
.
Section 6.11 Acceptance of Appointment by Successor
(a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and
 
deliver to the Corporation and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Corporation or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder; that such property and money shall continue to be subject to any lien in favor of the retiring Trustee provided for in Section 6.7.
provided,
(b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Corporation, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Corporation or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its lien provided for in Section 6.7, with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
(c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Corporation shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
(d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
 
Any Person into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, if such Person is otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Section 6.12 Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
If and when the Trustee is or becomes a creditor of the Corporation (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of Section 311 and any other provision of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Corporation (or any such other obligor), as the case may be.
Section 6.13 Preferential Collection of Claims Against Corporation.
At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 3.6, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Corporation and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus (computed in accordance with Section 310(a)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act) of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by federal, state or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent ceases to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Section 6.14 Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, if such corporation is otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Corporation. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Corporation. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent ceases to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Corporation and shall (1) mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Registered Securities, if any, of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent shall serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, and (2) if Securities of the series are issuable as Bearer Securities, publish notice of such appointment at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the place where such successor Authenticating Agent has its principal office if such office is located outside the United States. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The provisions of Sections 3.8, 6.4 and 6.5 shall be applicable to each Authenticating Agent.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
In accordance with Section 312(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Corporation shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
Section 7.1 Corporation to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
 
(a) semi-annually, not later than June 1 and December 1, in each year, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, containing all the information in the possession or control of the Corporation, or any of its Paying Agents other than the Trustee, as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities as of the preceding May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Corporation of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
that no such list need be furnished if the Trustee is the Security Registrar.
provided,
Section 7.2 Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(a) The Trustee shall comply with the obligations imposed upon it pursuant to Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act.
(b) Every Holder of Securities or coupons, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Corporation and the Trustee that neither the Corporation nor the Trustee nor any agent of any of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 7.3 Reports by Trustee.
(a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the first May 15 following the first issuance of Securities pursuant to Section 3.1, if required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall transmit, pursuant to Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, a brief report dated as of such May 15 with respect to any of the events specified in said Section 313(a) which may have occurred since the later of the immediately preceding May 15 and the date of this Indenture.
(b) The Trustee shall transmit the reports required by Section 313(b) of the Trust Indenture Act at the times specified therein.
(c) Reports pursuant to this Section shall be transmitted in the manner and to the Persons required by Sections 313(c) and 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act.
The Corporation, pursuant to Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, shall:
Section 7.4 Reports by Corporation.
(a) file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Corporation is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Corporation may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or, if the Corporation is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
(b) file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Corporation with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and
(c) transmit, within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, to the Holders of Securities, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Corporation pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
The Corporation shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Section 8.1 Corporation May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
(a) the Person formed by any such consolidation or into which it is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, its properties and assets substantially as an entirety shall be organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture to be performed or observed on the part of the Corporation;
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
(c) the Corporation has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease complies with this Section 8.1 and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
Upon any consolidation by the Corporation with or merger by the Corporation into any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the Corporation's properties and assets substantially as an entirety in accordance with
Section 8.2 Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Section 8.1, the successor formed by such consolidation or into which it is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Corporation under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Corporation herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
Without the consent of any Holders of Securities or coupons, the Corporation, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any one or more of the following purposes only:
Section 9.1 Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders.
(a) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Corporation and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Corporation herein and in the Securities and coupons; or
(b) to add to the covenants of the Corporation for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Corporation; or
(c) to add any additional Events of Default; or
(d) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Bearer Securities may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal (or premium, if any) on Registered Securities or of principal (or premium, if any) or any interest on Bearer Securities, to permit Registered Securities to be exchanged for Bearer Securities or to permit the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons in any material respect; or
provided,
(e) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
provided,
(f) to secure the Securities; or
(g) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series and any related coupons as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 3.1; or
(h) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series, to contain such provisions
 
as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the predecessor Trustee, and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 6.11(b); or
(i) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture; that such change shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture and shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons in any material respect; or
provided,
(j) to conform this Indenture to any amendments to the Trust Indenture Act.
With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Corporation and the Trustee, the Corporation, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons under this Indenture; that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security or coupon affected thereby:
Section 9.2 Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
provided,
(a) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or of any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or change the method of calculating the rate of interest thereon, or change any obligation of the Corporation to pay additional amounts pursuant to Section 10.6 (except as contemplated by Section 8.1(a) and permitted by Section 9.1(a)), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.2, or change any Place of Payment in the United States where, or the currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date);
(b) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the requirements of Section 13.4 for quorum or voting;
 
(c) change any obligation of the Corporation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment, or any obligation of the Corporation to maintain an office or agency outside the United States pursuant to Section 10.2;
(d) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 5.13 or Section 10.5, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder of a Security or coupon with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 10.4, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6.11(b) and 9.1(h).
provided,
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders of Securities under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
The Corporation shall have the right to set a record date for the solicitation of any consents under this Article Nine, which record date shall be set in accordance with Section 1.4.
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties, immunities or liabilities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 9.3 Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder and of any coupons appertaining thereto shall be bound thereby.
Section 9.4 Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Section 9.5 Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Corporation shall so
Section 9.6 Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
 
determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Corporation, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Corporation and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
The Corporation covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it shall duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of such Securities and this Indenture.
Section 10.1 Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
The Corporation shall maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Corporation in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Corporation initially appoints the Trustee, acting through its Corporate Trust Office, as its agent for said purposes. The Corporation shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any change in the location of any such office or agency. If at any time the Corporation fails to maintain such office or agency or fails to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Corporation hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Section 10.2 Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Corporation may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all of such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designations; , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Corporation of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Corporation shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation and any change in the location of any such office or agency.
provided, however
If the Corporation at any time acts as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it shall, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest) on any of the Securities of such series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and shall promptly notify the Trustee of its failure so to act.
Section 10.3 Money for Securities Payments to be Held in Trust.
Whenever the Corporation shall have one or more Paying Agents, it shall, prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, on any Securities, deposit with a Paying
 
Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, and if the Corporation fails to make such deposit (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Corporation shall promptly notify the Trustee of its failure so to act.
The Corporation shall cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent shall:
(a) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, on the Securities of a series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(b) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Corporation (or any other obligor upon such Securities) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, in respect of any Security of any series;
(c) at any time during the continuance of any default with respect to a series of Securities, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent with respect to such series; and
(d) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent.
The Corporation may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by an Order of the Corporation direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Corporation or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Corporation or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Corporation in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest (including any Additional Interest), if any, has become due and payable shall (unless otherwise required by mandatory provision of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law) be paid on Request of the Corporation, or (if then held by the Corporation) shall (unless otherwise required by mandatory provision of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law) be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Corporation for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Corporation as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Corporation cause to be
provided, however
 
published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Corporation.
The Corporation shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Corporation ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate covering the preceding calendar year, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Corporation is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of or compliance with any of the terms, provisions, covenants and conditions of this Indenture, and if the Corporation is in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. For the purpose of this Section 10.4, compliance shall be determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice provided pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
Section 10.4 Statement as to Compliance.
The Corporation may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition provided pursuant to Section 3.1, 9.1(b) or 9.1(g) with respect to the Securities of any series, if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Corporation in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10.5 Waiver of Certain Covenants.
If the Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts, the Corporation shall pay to the Holder of any Security of any series or any coupon appertaining hereto additional amounts upon the terms and subject to the conditions provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any contexts, the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or any related coupon or the net proceeds received on the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of additional amounts provided for in the terms of such Securities and this Section to the extent that, in such context, additional amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section, and express mention of the payment of any additional amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding additional amounts in those provisions hereof where express mention is not made.
Section 10.6 Additional Sums.
If the Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts, at least 10 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series shall not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal (and premium, if any) is made), and at least 10 days prior to each date of payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the above-mentioned Officers' Certificate, the Corporation shall furnish to the Trustee and the Corporation's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, an Order instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether such
 
payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series or the related coupons who are United States Aliens without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of that series. If any such withholding shall be required, then such Order shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on such payments to such Holders of Securities or coupons, and the Corporation shall pay to the Trustee or such Paying Agent the additional amounts, if any, required by the terms of such Securities and the first paragraph of this Section. The Corporation shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Trustee and any Paying Agent and any director, employee, Affiliate or agent of either (a "") against any loss, liability or expense, including without limitation any penalties and the fees and expenses of counsel, arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted in reliance on any Order furnished pursuant to this Section, except to the extent with respect to any Section 10.6 Indemnitee any loss, liability or expense is due to the negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of such Section 10.6 Indemnitee.
Section 10.6 Indemnitee
. For each year during which any Original Issue Discount Securities are Outstanding, the Corporation shall furnish to each Paying Agent in a timely fashion such information as may be reasonably requested by each Paying Agent in order that each Paying Agent may prepare the information which it is required to report for such year on Internal Revenue Service Forms 1096 and 1099 pursuant to Section 6049 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Such information shall include the amount of original issue discount includible in income for each $1,000 of principal amount at Stated Maturity of outstanding Securities during such year.
Section 10.7 Original Issue Discount
So long as any Securities remain outstanding, but subject to the provisions of Article Eight, the Corporation shall not sell, assign, transfer, grant a security interest in or otherwise dispose of any shares of, securities convertible into or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Voting Stock of the Bank or of any Subsidiary which owns Voting Stock of the Bank, nor will it permit the Bank to issue any shares of, or securities convertible into, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase, shares of, Voting Stock of the Bank or to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its property, assets and business except that (a) the Corporation or the Bank, as the case may be, may make any such sale, assignment, transfer, grant of a security interest, lease or other disposition for fair market value on the date thereof, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (which determination shall be conclusive) and evidenced by a duly adopted Board Resolution (provided, that if such consideration includes securities of any Person, such Person would not be an Affiliate of the Corporation immediately after the consummation of such transaction), and (b) if, in the case of any sale, assignment, transfer, grant of a security interest or other disposition of shares of, securities convertible into or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of Voting Stock of the Bank or of any such Subsidiary, after giving effect thereto (and assuming, for purposes of this clause (b), that all such convertible securities have been fully converted and all such options, warrants or rights have been fully exercised), the Corporation shall own at least 80% of the Voting Stock of the Bank then issued and outstanding free and clear of any security interest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and subject to provisions of Article Eight, the Corporation may merge, consolidate or combine with the Bank or the Corporation and the Bank may merge, consolidate or combine with a third corporation.
Section 10.8 Limitation on Disposition of Stock or Assets of the Bank.
 
Securities of any series that are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 11.1 Applicability of Article.
The election of the Corporation to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Corporation of all of the Securities of any series, the Corporation shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Corporation (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date. In case of any redemption at the election of the Corporation of less than all the Securities of any series, the Corporation shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Corporation (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (1) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (2) pursuant to an election of the Corporation which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities, the Corporation shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
Section 11.2 Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee from the Outstanding Securities of such series (other than Securities of such series held by the Corporation), not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. Unless otherwise provided in the Securities of a series, partial redemptions must be in an amount not less than $1,000,000 principal amount of Securities.
Section 11.3 Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Corporation in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in Section 1.6 to the Holders of Securities to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.
Section 11.4 Notice of Redemption.
All notices of redemption shall state:
(a) the Redemption Date,
(b) the Redemption Price,
(c) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
(d) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price shall become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon shall cease to accrue on and after said date,
(e) the place or places where such Securities, together in the case of Bearer Securities with all coupons appertaining thereto, if any, maturing after the Redemption Date, are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, which shall be the office or agency maintained by the Corporation in each Place of Payment pursuant to Section 10.2, and
(f) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case.
A notice of redemption published as contemplated by Section 1.6 need not identify particular Registered Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Corporation shall be given by the Corporation or, at the Corporation's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Corporation.
On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Corporation shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Corporation is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.3) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date is an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
Section 11.5 Deposit of Redemption Price.
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, and the conditions, if any, set forth in such notice having been satisfied, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Corporation defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any,) such Securities shall cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be redeemed, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security shall be
Section 11.6 Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
 
paid by the Corporation at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; that installments of interest on Bearer Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of coupons for such interest (at an office or agency located outside the United States except as otherwise provided in Section 10.2); and that installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.7.
provided,
provided further,
If any Bearer Security surrendered for redemption is not accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the Redemption Price an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Corporation and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security surrenders to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made from the Redemption Price, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons at an office or agency located outside of the United States except as otherwise provided in Section 10.2.
provided,
If any Security called for redemption is not so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Corporation or the Trustee so requires with respect to any Registered Security, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Corporation and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series, Stated Maturity and of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Section 11.7 Securities Redeemed in Part.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1, if a Global Security is so surrendered, the Corporation shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depositary in global form, without service charge, a new Global Security or Securities of the same series, Stated Maturity and of any authorized denomination as requested by the Depositary, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Global Security so surrendered.
 
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.1 for Securities of such series.
Section 12.1 Applicability of Article.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.2. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
The Corporation (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption), together in the case of any Bearer Securities of such series with all unmatured coupons appertaining thereto, and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Corporation pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
Section 12.2 Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
provided,
Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Corporation shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 12.2 and stating the basis for such credit and that such Securities have not previously been so credited and shall also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.3 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Corporation in the manner provided in Section 11.4. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 11.6 and 11.7.
Section 12.3 Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
 
If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
Section 13.1 Purposes for Which Meetings May be Called.
Section 13.2 Call Notice and Place of Meeting.
(a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 13.1, to be held at such time and at such place in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or in London, as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided in Section 1.6, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
(b) In case at any time the Corporation, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 13.1, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Corporation or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or in London for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in subsection (a) of this Section.
To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Corporation and its counsel.
Section 13.3 Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings.
The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case, the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the
Section 13.4 Quorum; Action.
 
adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Except as provided by Section 13.5(d), notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 13.2(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of an adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as provided above, of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum.
Except as limited by the proviso to Section 9.2, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted only by the affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; that, except as limited by the proviso to Section 9.2, any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
provided,
Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series and the related coupons, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
Section 13.5 Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of such series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 1.4, and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 1.4. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 1.4 or other proof.
(b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Corporation or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 13.2(b), in which case the Corporation or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
 
(c) At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities of such series held or represented by him; that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or proxy.
provided,
(d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 13.2 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in triplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in triplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting, and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 13.2 and, if applicable, Section 13.4. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting, and one such copy shall be delivered to the Corporation and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
Section 13.6 Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings.
In lieu of a vote of Holders at a meeting as hereinbefore contemplated in this Article, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action may be made, given or taken by Holders by written instruments as provided in Section 1.4.
Section 13.7 Action Without Meeting.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on any Securities, or any part thereof, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, or of the indebtedness
Section 14.1 Liability Solely Corporate.
 
represented thereby, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement under this Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, past, present or future of the Corporation or of any predecessor or successor Corporation (either directly or through the Corporation or a predecessor or successor Corporation), whether by virtue of any constitutional provision, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that this Indenture and all the Securities are solely corporate obligations, and that no personal liability whatsoever shall attach to, or be incurred by, any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director or employee, past, present or future, of the Corporation or of any predecessor or successor Corporation, either directly or indirectly through the Corporation or any predecessor or successor Corporation, because of the indebtedness hereby authorized or under or by reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or to be implied herefrom or therefrom, and that any such personal liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as part of the consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of the Securities.
 
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
I W W
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
UNLESS THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION OR ITS AGENT OR AGENTS FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY GLOBAL NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE, AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
 
Northern Trust Corporation, a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co, or registered assigns, the principal sum of Two Hundred Fifty Million Dollars on August 29, 2011.
Interest Payment Dates: August 28 and February 28
Record Dates: August 13 and February 13
Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
Dated: August 28, 2006
 
This is one of the Notes of the series
referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
1. Interest
Northern Trust Corporation, a Delaware corporation (such corporation, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum shown above. The Company will pay interest semiannually on August 28 and February 28 of each year, commencing February 28, 2007. Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from August 28, 2006. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The Company will pay interest on overdue principal and premium at the above rate and will pay interest on overdue installments of interest at such rate to the extent lawful.
2. Method of Payment
The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the August 13
th
or February 13
th
next preceding the Interest Payment Date even if Notes are canceled after the Record Date and on or before the Interest Payment Date. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal and interest in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payments in respect of the Notes represented by a Global Note (including principal and interest) will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by The Depository Trust Company.
3. Paying Agent and Security Registrar
Initially, the Trustee will act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to the Holders. The Company may act as Paying Agent or Security Registrar.
4. Indenture
The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of August 15, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), and pursuant to an Officers' Certificate of the Company dated August 28, 2006 (the "Officers' Certificate"). The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and the Officers' Certificate and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. sections 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Officers' Certificate (the "Act"). Capitalized terms used herein and defined in the Indenture but not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the Act for a statement of those terms.
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company. The Notes issued on the Issue Date will be treated as a single class for all purposes under the Indenture.
5. Additional Notes
The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, create and issue Additional Notes ranking equally with the Notes in all respects, including having the same CUSIP number, so that such Additional Notes shall be consolidated and form a single series with the Notes and shall have the same terms as to status, redemption or otherwise as the Notes. No Additional Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes.
6. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Security Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements or transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.
7. Persons Deemed Owners
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of it for all purposes.
8. Unclaimed Money
If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall pay the money back to the Company at its request. After any such payment, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company, and not to the Trustee or the Paying Agent, for payment.
9. Satisfaction and Discharge
Under the Indenture, the Company can terminate its obligations with respect to the Notes not previously delivered to the Trustee for cancellation when those Notes have become due and payable or will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year. The Company may terminate its obligations with respect to the Notes by depositing with the Trustee, as funds in trust dedicated solely for that purpose, an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes. In that case, the Indenture will cease to be of further effect and the Company's obligations will be satisfied and discharged with respect to the Notes (except as to the Company's obligations to pay all other amounts due under the Indenture and to provide certain Officers' Certificates and Opinions of Counsel to the Trustee). At the expense of the Company, the Trustee will execute proper instruments acknowledging the satisfaction and discharge.
10. Amendment, Waiver
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture and the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount outstanding of the Notes and (ii) any default or noncompliance with any provision may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount outstanding of the Notes. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee shall be entitled to amend the Indenture to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to evidence the succession of another Person as obligor under the Indenture, or to add to the Company's covenants or to surrender any right or power conferred on the Company under the Indenture, or to add events of default, or to secure the Notes, or to evidence or provide for the acceptance or appointment by a successor Trustee or facilitate the administration of the trusts under the Indenture by more than one trustee, or to effect assumption by one of the Company's Subsidiaries of the Company's obligations under the Indenture, or to conform the Indenture to any amendment of the Trust Indenture Act.
11. Defaults and Remedies
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include: (i) default by the Company in the payment of any interest upon any Note and the continuance of such default for 30 days; (ii) default by the Company in the payment of principal of or any premium on any Note when due at Stated Maturity; (iii) default by the Company in the performance of or breach of any covenant or warranty in the Indenture and continuance of such default for 60 days after written notice to the Company from the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee from the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes; (iv) default by the Company under any bond, debenture, note or other evidence of indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company, or default by the Company under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, secured or evidenced indebtedness constituting a failure to pay in excess of $25,000,000 of the principal or interest when due and payable, subject to certain cure rights; (v) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in the interest of the Holders.
12. Trustee Dealings with the Company
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Act, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
13. No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company or the Trustee shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
14. Authentication
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee (or an Authenticating Agent) manually signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
15. Abbreviations
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
16. CUSIP, ISIN and Common Code Numbers
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. To the extent such numbers have been issued, the Company has caused ISIN and Common Code numbers to be similarly printed on the Notes and has similarly instructed the Trustee. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
17. Governing Law.
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO CONTRARY CONFLICT OF LAWS OR CHOICE OF LAWS PROVISIONS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Northern Trust Corporation
50 South LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Attention: Treasurer
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                             
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Media Contact:
Richard Jurek, Vice President
(312) 444-5281
www.northerntrust.com
 , a multibank holding company, agreed to sell $250 million of five-year non-callable fixed rate notes through lead manager Merrill Lynch & Co. and co-managers J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and UBS Securities LLC.
CHICAGO  August 23, 2006
Northern Trust Corporation
The notes are priced at 99.85 with a coupon of 5.30 percent to yield 5.335 percent. The notes mature on August 29, 2011.
Northern Trust intends to use the proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes.
The notes are being offered pursuant to a shelf registration statement covering up to $500 million of debt and equity securities that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 20, 2003. Copies of the prospectus and prospectus supplement may be obtained from Merrill Lynch & Co., 4 World Financial Center, Prospectus Department, New York, N.Y. 10080.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy in any jurisdiction where the offer or sale is not permitted.
About Northern Trust
Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) is a leading provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions and affluent individuals worldwide. Northern Trust, a multibank holding company based in Chicago, has a growing network of 84 offices in 18 U.S. states and has international offices in 12 locations in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. As of June 30, 2006, Northern Trust had assets under custody of $3.2 trillion, and assets under investment management of $640 billion. Northern Trust, founded in 1889, has earned distinction as an industry leader in combining high-touch service and expertise with innovative products and technology. For more information, visit .
http://www.northerntrust.com


