FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20070221111455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15 (d)
 
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 20, 2007
 
NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (312)
 
630-6000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 20, 2007, Northern Trust Corporation (the "Company") and William A. Osborn, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, by mutual agreement, terminated the Employment Security Agreement, dated May 21, 2002, between Mr. Osborn and the Company (the "Employment Security Agreement"). The letter, dated February 20, 2007, from Mr. Osborn, countersigned on behalf of the Company by Timothy P. Moen, Executive Vice President and Head of Human Resources and Administration, memorializing the termination of the Employment Security Agreement is attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein as Exhibit 10.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
4
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10
 
 
William A. Osborn
Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer
February 20, 2007
 
Mr. Timothy P. Moen
Executive Vice President and
Head of Human Resources and Administration
 
Dear Tim:
 
This is to advise that I voluntarily terminate the Employment Security Agreement, dated May 21, 2002, between myself and Northern Trust Corporation effective the date hereof. Because of my seniority and longevity both at Northern Trust and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, I have significant equity ownership in Northern Trust and am retirement eligible. Accordingly, my unique situation is such that an employment security agreement for me is unnecessary.
 
If the foregoing is acceptable to Northern Trust Corporation, kindly so indicate by signing this letter, which shall be kept in the permanent records and minute books of the company to memorialize the termination of the Employment Security Agreement.
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ William A. Osborn              
William A. Osborn
 
Accepted and Agreed:
 
Northern Trust Corporation
 
By:
/s/ Timothy P. Moen                      
Timothy P. Moen,
Executive Vice President and
Head of Human Resources and Administration
 
 
 
 


