FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20071113172058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In October 2007, Northern Trust, as a member of Visa U.S.A. Inc. (Visa U.S.A.), received shares of restricted stock in Visa, Inc. (Visa) as a result of its participation in the global restructuring of Visa U.S.A., Visa Canada Association, and Visa International Service Association in preparation for an initial public offering. On November 7, 2007, Visa announced that it had reached a settlement with American Express related to an antitrust lawsuit. As reported by Visa in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2007, the settlement became effective upon receipt of the requisite approval of Visa U.S.A. members on November 9, 2007. Northern Trust and other Visa U.S.A. member banks are obligated to share in potential losses resulting from this and certain other litigation. In consideration of the announced American Express settlement, Northern Trust's proportionate membership share of Visa U.S.A., and accounting guidance that we have been informed was provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Northern Trust will record in the fourth quarter of 2007 a liability and corresponding expense of approximately $50 million pre-tax, which is expected to result in an approximate $.15 reduction in diluted earnings per share. The other Visa litigation matters that are being evaluated may result in further litigation accruals by Northern Trust in the current or future quarters.
As disclosed in Visa's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 7, 2007, Visa intends that payments related to the above litigation matters will be funded from an escrow account to be established with a portion of the proceeds from its planned initial public offering. Northern Trust currently anticipates that its proportional share of the proceeds of the planned initial public offering by Visa will more than offset any liabilities related to Visa litigation.
This report may include forward-looking statements, such as statements that relate to Northern Trust's financial goals, dividend policy, expansion and business development plans, anticipated expense levels and projected profit improvements, business prospects and positioning with respect to market, demographic and pricing trends, strategic initiatives, re-engineering and outsourcing activities, new business results and outlook, changes in securities market prices, credit quality including reserve levels, planned capital expenditures and technology spending, anticipated tax benefits and expenses, and the effects of any extraordinary events and various other matters (including developments with respect to litigation, other contingent liabilities, and regulation involving Northern Trust and changes in accounting policies, standards and interpretations) on Northern Trust's business and results. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases, such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "may increase," "may fluctuate," "plan," "goal," "target," "strategy," and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "may," "will," "should," "would," and "could." Forward-looking statements are Northern Trust's current estimates or expectations of future events or future results. Actual results could differ materially from those indicated by these statements because the realization of those results is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Northern Trust Corporation's 2006 Financial Annual Report to Shareholders, including the section of Management's Discussion and Analysis captioned "Factors Affecting Future Results," and periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the section captioned "Risk Factors," contain additional information about factors that could affect
actual results, including: economic, market, and monetary policy risks; operational risks; investment performance, fiduciary, and asset servicing risks; credit risks; liquidity risks; holding company risks; regulation risks; litigation risks; tax and accounting risks; strategic and competitive risks; and reputation risks. All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available at the time of the report, and Northern Trust Corporation assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


