FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20071116143601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On November 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") adopted amendments to the Corporation's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code"). The amended Code supersedes the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on November 14, 2006. A copy of the Code, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 14.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The following is a summary of the adopted amendments: (a) language was added to expressly recognize the responsibility of all directors, officers and employees to treat all persons without bias, discrimination or harassment; (b) language was added that specifies in more detail certain laws that must be adhered to; (c) language was added to expand the discussion of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; (d) language was added to clarify that questions about the legality of proposed or actual conduct should be addressed to the General Counsel or the Code of Ethics Contact Person; and (e) language was added to clarify that the scope of corporate property and assets covered by the Code includes intangible property and proprietary rights of the Corporation.
The amendments took effect upon adoption by the Board of Directors.
 
On November 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of Corporation adopted amendments to the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines (the "Guidelines"). The amended Guidelines supercede the Corporate Governance Guidelines adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on November 14, 2006. A copy of the Guidelines, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The amendment to the Guidelines clarifies that the Chairman of the Board will normally chair the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 14.1
This Code applies to all directors of Northern Trust Corporation and all officers and employees of Northern Trust worldwide. More detailed Northern Trust policies and procedures set forth in other documents, including the Guidelines Relating to Standards of Conduct applicable to employees, some of which apply to all directors, officers and employees and some of which apply only to specified groups of persons, are separate requirements that are not part of this Code.
This Code applies to all directors of Northern Trust Corporation and all officers and employees of Northern Trust worldwide. More detailed Northern Trust policies and procedures set forth in other documents, including the Guidelines Relating to Standards of Conduct applicable to employees, some of which apply to all directors, officers and employees and some of which apply only to specified groups of persons, are separate requirements that are not part of this Code.
The Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation (with its subsidiaries, "Northern Trust") has adopted this code of ethics (this "Code") to:
 
 
 
 
 
All directors of Northern Trust Corporation and all officers and employees of Northern Trust worldwide are expected to be familiar with this Code and to adhere to those principles and procedures set forth in this Code that apply to them. More detailed Northern Trust policies and procedures set forth in other documents, including the Guidelines Relating to Standards of Conduct applicable to employees, some of which apply to all directors, officers and employees and some of which apply only to specified groups of persons, are separate requirements that are not part of this Code.
For purposes of this Code, the "Code of Ethics Contact Person" will be the Corporate Secretary.
Northern Trust may waive provisions of this Code. Any waiver of a provision of this Code for directors or executive officers of Northern Trust may be made only by the Board of Directors. For purposes of this Code "executive officer" means a member of the Northern Trust Management Committee or the Controller. A waiver and the reasons for granting the waiver for a director or executive officer must be disclosed in the manner required by Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") rules. Any waiver for other employees may be made only by the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
promptly
 
Each director, officer and employee owes a duty to Northern Trust to act with integrity and to treat colleagues, clients, suppliers and other third parties with dignity and respect. Integrity requires, among other things, being honest, ethical and candid. Deceit and subordination of principle are inconsistent with integrity.
Each director, officer and employee must:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A "conflict of interest" occurs when an individual's real or perceived private interest interferes or appears to interfere with the interests of Northern Trust. A conflict of interest can arise when a director, officer or employee takes action or has an interest that may make it difficult to perform his or her Northern Trust work objectively and effectively. For example, a conflict of interest would arise if a director, officer or employee, or a member or his or her family, receives an improper personal benefit as a result of his or her position in Northern Trust. For these purposes, a family member includes the person's spouse, domestic partner, parents, grandparents, children, brothers, sisters, mother- and father-in-law, sons- and daughters-in-law, and brothers- and sisters-in-law.
Any material transaction or relationship that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest should be discussed in advance with the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
Service to Northern Trust should never be subordinated to personal gain or advantage; accordingly, conflicts of interest should be avoided whenever possible.
 
Clear conflict of interest situations involving directors, officers and employees who occupy supervisory positions or who have discretionary authority in dealing with any third party specified below may include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such situations, if material, should always be discussed with the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
All persons covered by this Code should recognize that some situations that would present a conflict for a director, officer or employee may also present a conflict if a member of his or her family were in the same situation.
 
Each director, officer or employee involved in Northern Trust's disclosure process, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller (the "Senior Financial Officers"), is required to be familiar with and comply with Northern Trust's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, to the extent relevant to his or her area of responsibility, so that Northern Trust's public reports and documents filed with the SEC comply in all material respects with the applicable U.S. securities laws and SEC rules. In addition, any person having direct or supervisory authority regarding these SEC filings or Northern Trust's other public communications concerning its general business, results, financial condition and prospects should, to the extent appropriate within his or her area of responsibility, consult with other Northern Trust officers and employees and take other appropriate steps regarding these disclosures with the goal of making full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure.
Each director, officer or employee who is involved in Northern Trust's disclosure process, including the Senior Financial Officers, must:
 
 
 
 
It is Northern Trust's policy to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, all applicable banking laws, antitrust and competition laws, anti-money laundering laws (such as those under the USA PATRIOT ACT, for which Northern Trust has a separate anti-money laundering policy), anti-boycott laws, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States and securities laws. It is the personal responsibility of each director, officer and employee to adhere to the standards and restrictions imposed by those laws, rules and regulations. The following subsections address several types of legal prohibitions.
 
As a general rule, insiders who possess material nonpublic information about an issuer of securities, and persons who have received material nonpublic information from insiders, may be subject to the "abstain or disclose" rulethat is, they may be required by the securities laws either (1) to refrain from both passing such information on to others ("tipping") and from trading in or recommending the purchase or sale of the securities of the corporation of which they or their source is an insider or of options on those securities, or (2) to disclose such information to the investing public before trading in those securities. (In virtually all cases, of course, it will be improper for a Northern Trust director, officer or employee to disclose that nonpublic information without the express permission of the original source of the information, such as the corporation from which the information was obtained.) Impermissible tipping includes advising another person or entity to trade in a security when the director, officer or employee is prohibited from trading in that security.
It is also generally impermissible to trade in securities of company when the information was initially disclosed, or would be used, in breach of a duty to maintain the information in confidence, such as nonpublic information obtained from a client that is material to the value of a security issued by another company. This is sometimes referred to as "misappropriation," another type of unlawful insider trading.
any
The prohibitions in the prior two paragraphs remain in effect until the information has been substantially disclosed to the public or is no longer material.
A similar rule may apply to the sales of loans under principles of common law fraud where similar factual circumstances exist.
 
Any director, officer or employee who is uncertain about the application of legal rules involving a purchase or sale of any Northern Trust securities or any securities in companies that he or she is familiar with by virtue of that person's relationship with Northern Trust should consult with Northern Trust's legal department before making any such purchase or sale.
 
Under the U.S. Bank Bribery Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions throughout the world, no Northern Trust director, officer or employee may corruptly solicit, demand or accept any gifts or other items of value intended to influence or reward that person in connection with any aspect of Northern Trust business.
Similarly, under U.S. law and the laws of other jurisdictions, no Northern Trust director, officer or employee may give a bribe, kickback or other similar remuneration to government officials in order to obtain business for Northern Trust or secure an improper advantage. For instance, under U.S. law no Northern Trust staff member may make or grant a loan or gratuity to any bank examiner having authority over Northern Trust.
Under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") it is a crime for a Northern Trust director, officer or employee or any agent, representative, or business partner of or consultant for Northern Trust to give or offer to give money or anything of value with the intent to improperly influence the business decisions of officials or employees of a foreign government or its entities who have discretionary authority, including officials of public international organizations. Providing gifts, travel, entertainment or other items of value, or directing business to particular vendors (e.g., when specifically directed to do so by a foreign government) may constitute FCPA violations. The FCPA applies to U.S. persons or companies acting either inside or outside the United States as well as to foreign persons if they commit an act in furtherance of a bribe while in the United States. There are similar laws in other jurisdictions, and all Northern Trust directors, officers and employees are expected to adhere to the more stringent of local law and the FCPA as well as Northern Trust's separate FCPA Policy.
 
The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for applying this Code to specific situations in which questions are presented to it and for evaluating whether there is any need for revisions to this Code.
Any director, officer or employee who becomes aware of any suspected past, ongoing, or potential violation of the law, rules, regulations or this Code is required to notify the Code of Ethics Contact Person promptly. Failure to do so is itself a violation of this Code. In addition, any director, officer or employee who has been charged with any felony or sanctioned by any regulatory agency shall immediately report that event to the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
Any questions relating to how this Code should be interpreted or applied, including questions about the legality of any proposed or actual conduct, should be addressed to the General Counsel or the Code of Ethics Contact Person. The General Counsel shall provide interpretations of this Code. These interpretations are subject to the ultimate authority of the Corporate Governance
 
Committee. A director, officer or employee who is unsure whether proposed conduct by that person or any other person violates this Code should discuss the situation with the Code of Ethics Contact Person to prevent possible misunderstandings and embarrassment at a later date.
Each director, officer or employee must:
 
 
Northern Trust will follow the following procedures in investigating and enforcing this Code, and in reporting on this Code:
 
 
Northern Trust may waive provisions of this Code. Any waiver of a provision of this Code for directors or executive officers of Northern Trust may be made only by the Board of Directors and must be disclosed as required by SEC or Nasdaq rules. Any waiver for other employees may be made only by the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
promptly
 
Directors, officers and employees owe a duty to Northern Trust to advance Northern Trust's business interests when the opportunity to do so arises. Directors, officers and employees are prohibited from taking (or directing to a third party) a business opportunity that is discovered through the use of corporate property, information or position, unless Northern Trust has already been offered the opportunity and declined it. More generally, directors, officers and employees are prohibited from using corporate property (including intangible property and proprietary rights of Northern Trust), information or position for personal gain and from competing with Northern Trust.
Sometimes the line between personal and Northern Trust benefits is difficult to draw, and sometimes there are both personal and Northern Trust benefits in certain activities. Directors, officers and employees who intend to make use of Northern Trust property or services in a manner not solely for the benefit of Northern Trust should consult beforehand with the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
 
In carrying out Northern Trust's business, directors, officers and employees often learn confidential or proprietary information about Northern Trust, its clients, suppliers, or others with which it does business. Directors, officers and employees must maintain the confidentiality of all information so entrusted to them, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. Confidential or proprietary information of Northern Trust, and of other companies, includes any non-public information the disclosures of which would be harmful to the relevant company or useful or helpful to competitors.
 
Northern Trust has a history of succeeding through honest business competition. It does not seek competitive advantage through illegal or unethical business practices. Each director, officer and employee should endeavor to deal fairly with Northern Trust's clients, service providers, suppliers, competitors and employees. No director, officer or employee should take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other unfair dealing practice.
 
All directors, officers and employees should protect Northern Trust's assets (including intangible property and proprietary rights of Northern Trust) and ensure their efficient use. All Northern Trust assets should be used only for legitimate business purposes. Theft of corporate assets is prohibited and carelessness and waste should be avoided.
 
Each year, at the time of the filing of Northern Trust's Form 10-K, the Chief Executive Officer of Northern Trust, after consultation with the General Counsel and the Code of Ethics Contact Person, shall certify to the Board of Directors that he or she is not aware of any violation by Northern Trust of any Nasdaq corporate governance listing standard.
 
This Code shall be posted on Northern Trust's website. The fact that this Code is posted on the website shall be disclosed in Northern Trust's Form 10-K each year. Northern Trust shall make such other disclosure of this Code as is required by law.
Adopted by the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation on November 13, 2007.
 

Exhibit 99.1
These Corporate Governance Guidelines (these "Guidelines") were adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") on November 13, 2007 and supersede the corporate governance guidelines adopted by the Board on November 14, 2006. These Guidelines are intended to comply with the corporate governance rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq").
 
1. . In recent years, the Board has had between 12 and 16 members. A size in this range makes the Board large enough to allow for a diversity of perspectives and backgrounds without being so large as to impede effective discussion. The quality of the individuals serving and the overall balance of the Board are more important than the precise number of members. The Corporate Governance Committee periodically reviews the size of the Board, and these considerations could lead the Corporate Governance Committee to recommend to the Board, from time to time, a Board outside this range.
Size
2. . A majority of the Board consists of "independent directors," as defined under Nasdaq rules. No director shall qualify as "independent" unless the Board affirmatively determines that the has no relationship with the Corporation which, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director and has no material relationship with the Corporation (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Corporation). To assist it in making determinations of independence, the Board may adopt, and disclose on its website, categorical standards. The Corporation will disclose, in its annual proxy statement, the names of those directors that the Board has determined to be independent under the Nasdaq rules and any categorical standards adopted by the Board and will describe, by specific category or type, for each director or nominee for director determined to be independent, any transactions, relationships or arrangements not disclosed in the proxy statement that were considered by the Board in making the determination. The Board would not expect to have more than two employee directors except in unusual circumstances, such as during a transition in leadership.
Independence
director
3. . No director may stand for election to the Board after his or her 72
Retirement
nd
birthday except in unusual circumstances approved by the Board. It is also expected that employee directors will resign from the Board at the time they resign or retire from the Corporation.
4. . A director who resigns or is terminated from the primary position that such director held when elected to the Board shall tender his or her resignation as a director to the Corporate Governance Committee, effective upon the Board's
Change of Job Responsibility
acceptance of the resignation. The Corporate Governance Committee will review the desirability of the director's continued service on the Board under the circumstances and will make a recommendation to the Board as to whether or not the Board should accept the resignation.
5. . The Board as a whole is responsible for selecting candidates for director. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for screening and recommending candidates. In discharging this responsibility, the Committee considers the nature of the expertise and experience required for the performance of the duties of a director of a corporation engaged in the Corporation's business and such matters as the relevant business and industry experience, professional background, age, current employment, community service and other board service of candidates for directors, as well as the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee seeks to identify, as candidates for director, persons with a for and record of integrity and good business judgment who (1) have experience in positions with a high degree of responsibility and are leaders in the organizations with which they are affiliated, (2) are free from conflicts of interest that could interfere with a director's duties to the Corporation and its stockholders, and (3) are willing and able to make the necessary commitment of time and attention required for effective Board service. The Corporate Governance Committee also takes into account the candidate's level of financial literacy. The Corporate Governance Committee monitors the mix of skills and experience of the directors in order to assess whether the Board has the necessary tools to perform its oversight function effectively.
Candidates
reputation
6. . Although the Corporate Governance Committee will consider length of service in recommending for re-election, the Board does not believe that adopting a set term limit for directors serves the interests of the Corporation.
Term Limits
candidates
7. . No may serve on the board of directors of more than four public companies, in addition to the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee takes into account the competing demands on a person's time in deciding whether or not to recommend to the Board such person's nomination or renomination as a director.
Service on Other Boards
director
8. . The Board should remain free to configure leadership of the Board and the Corporation in the way that best serves Corporation's interests at the time and, accordingly, has no fixed policy with respect to combining or separating the offices of Chairman and CEO.
Leadership
the
9. . Director compensation should be set by the Board. The Compensation and Benefits Committee, with the assistance of the Corporation's staff, reviews the amount and composition of director compensation from time to time and makes recommendations to the Board when it changes are needed. In recommending director compensation, the Compensation and Benefits Committee considers the potential negative effect on director independence if director compensation and perquisites exceed customary levels.
Compensation
concludes
 
1. . In an uncontested election of directors (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board), any incumbent director who
Required Resignation
 
fails to receive a majority of the votes present and voting at the meeting of stockholders will promptly tender his or her resignation to the Chairman of the Board (or such other director designated by the Board if the director failing to receive the majority of votes cast is the Chairman of the Board) following of the stockholder vote. Such resignation shall be effective upon its acceptance by the Board.
certification
2. . The Corporate Governance Committee will promptly consider the resignation submitted by an incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes, and the Corporate Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to accept the tendered resignation or reject it. In considering whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, the Corporate Governance Committee will consider all factors deemed relevant by the members of the Corporate Governance Committee including, without limitation, any stated reasons stockholders did not support such director, the length of service and qualifications of the director whose resignation has been tendered, the director's contributions to the Corporation, and the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Consideration of Resignation
3. . The Board will act on the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation no later than 90 days following the date of the stockholders' meeting where the election occurred. In considering the Governance Committee's recommendation, the Board will consider the factors considered by the Corporate Governance Committee and such additional information and factors the Board believes to be relevant. Following the Board's decision on the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, the Corporation will promptly publicly disclose the Board's decision whether to accept the resignation as tendered (providing a full explanation of the process by which the decision was reached and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation) in a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Board Action
Corporate
4. . To the extent that one or more directors' resignations are accepted by the Board, the Corporate Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to fill such vacancy or vacancies or to reduce the size of the Board.
Vacancies
5. . Any director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this provision will not participate in the Corporate Governance Committee recommendation or Board consideration regarding whether or not to accept the tendered resignation. If a majority of the members of the Corporate Governance Committee failed to receive a majority of the votes at the same , then the independent directors who are on the Board who did receive a majority of the votes (or who were not standing for election) will appoint a Board committee amongst themselves solely for the purpose of considering the tendered resignations and will recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject them. This Board committee may, but need not, consist of all of the independent directors who received a majority of the votes or who were not standing for election.
Recusal of Certain Directors
election
6. . This corporate governance guideline will be summarized or included in each proxy statement to an election of directors of the Corporation.
Inclusion in Proxy Statement
relating
 
1. . Directors are expected to exercise their business judgment in good faith and in what they reasonably believe to be the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders. In discharging those obligations, directors should be entitled to rely on the honesty and of the Corporation's senior management and outside advisors and auditors.
General Responsibilities of Directors
integrity
2. . Directors shall be entitled to indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law and by the Corporation's charter and By-laws and to exculpation as provided by state law and by the Corporation's charter. Directors shall also be entitled to have the Corporation purchase reasonable directors' and officers' liability insurance on their behalf.
Indemnification
3. . The Chairman of the Board is responsible for setting and circulating in advance an agenda for each meeting. Any director may suggest items for inclusion on the agenda or may raise, at any Board meeting, subjects that are not on the agenda for that meeting. The Board expects that meeting agendas will include on a regular basis a review of financial performance and a review of the Corporation's business strategies and practices.
Agendas
4. . Directors are expected to attend Board meetings and to spend the time needed to discharge their responsibilities as directors. Materials with respect to matters on which action is expected to be taken are circulated to the Board at least several days in advance of the meeting whenever possible, and directors are expected to review these materials in advance of the meeting. Financial reports, certain Committee minutes and other background materials are also circulated in advance of the meeting and during months when the Board is not scheduled to meet.
Meeting Attendance and Preparation
5. . Directors are expected to attend the annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders.
Attendance at Annual Meeting of Stockholders
6. . The independent members of the Board meet, without management, at regularly scheduled executive sessions which may take place after a regularly scheduled meeting of the full board. Such executive sessions shall be held at least twice a year. The Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee or, in his or her absence, the Chairman of either the Audit, Compensation and Benefits, Business Risk, or Business Strategy Committee presides at the executive sessions, as disclosed in the Corporation's annual proxy statement.
Executive Sessions of Independent Directors
7. . The Corporation discloses, in its annual proxy statement and on its website, one or more methods by which stockholders and other interested parties may communicate directly with the Board of Directors, including the Corporate Governance Committee Chairman, who presides over executive sessions of the Board, and the independent directors as a group.
Communications with Directors
8. . The Board expects that senior officers of the Corporation will regularly attend Board and Committee meetings, present proposals and otherwise assist in the work of the Board. Members of the Board have direct access to any of the Corporation's employees.
Access to Employees
 
9. . The Board has the power to hire independent legal, financial or other advisors as it deems necessary, without consulting or obtaining the approval of any officer of the Corporation in advance, and the Corporation will pay any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the engagement.
Authority to Engage Advisors
 
1. . The Corporation will have at all times Audit, Corporate Governance, and Compensation and Benefits Committees. The Corporation also has Business Risk, Business Strategy, and Executive Committees. The responsibilities of each Committee and any membership requirements are contained in the Corporation's By-laws and a charter approved by the Board. The Corporation complies with all applicable Nasdaq rules and regulatory requirements concerning the membership of Board Committees, including those with respect to the independence of the directors who serve on those Committees. Employees of the Corporation do not serve on any of the Committees other than the Executive Committee, although the staff work needed for each Committee is coordinated by a designated officer of the Corporation. The Corporate Governance Committee reviews the Committee structure of the Board and the membership of the various Committees at least annually and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
Numbers and Composition of Committees
2. . The Board believes that Committee assignments should be based on the director's knowledge, interests and areas of expertise. The Chairman of the Board will normally chair the Executive Committee. The Chairmanship of other Committees should change at intervals of approximately five years, and there should also be a regular rotation in the membership of the Committees, balancing in each case the need for fresh perspective with the need for experience and continuity.
Committee Chairmen and Membership
3. . The Committee Chairman, in consultation with the Committee members, determines the frequency of Committee meetings. Directors are expected to attend meetings of the Committees on which they sit and to spend the time needed to discharge their responsibilities as members of those Committees. The agenda and any background materials for Committee meetings may be developed in consultation with Committee members, management, or the executive officer responsible for supporting the Committee and are circulated in advance of a meeting whenever practical. Committee members are expected to review these materials in advance of the meeting. The Committee Chairmen report to the Board after each meeting, and minutes of the Committees are circulated to the Board.
Committee Meeting Procedures
 
1. . A key responsibility of the Board is to monitor the performance of the CEO and, in consultation with the CEO, the performance of other senior officers. The Compensation and Benefits Committee annually conducts a formal management development and succession planning review, to which all of the Corporation's directors are invited, and reports to the Board.
Evaluation of Senior Officers
 
2. . The Compensation and Benefits Committee reviews, and following Committee discussions, with and without the CEO, and the Committee's annual management development and succession planning review to which all of the Corporation's directors are invited, makes recommendations to the Board concerning management development and succession planning activities. The Corporate Governance Committee discusses succession planning in the event of the unexpected death, incapacity or resignation of the CEO and recommends to the Board, after consultation with the Chairman of the Corporation's Compensation and Benefits Committee, an appropriate successor under such circumstances.
Succession Planning
3. . Management speaks for the Corporation. Inquiries from institutional investors, the press and others should be referred to the CEO or other appropriate officers.
Communication
 
All new directors are required to participate in an orientation program, which is generally conducted within four months of each annual meeting at which new directors are elected. The orientation program includes the introduction of the new directors to the Corporation's principal officers and presentations by senior management to familiarize new directors with the Corporation's strategic plans and business units and generally includes a visit to the Corporation's headquarters. Continuing professional development opportunities for all other directors will be conducted through the Corporation's regular Board meetings and Board meeting materials; periodic Board or Board Committee presentations by the Corporation's officers concerning the Corporation's strategies, initiatives, business plans, management structure, compliance programs, and significant financial, accounting and risk management issues; Board or Board Committee presentations by outside parties concerning industry issues and other business, legal and regulatory matters; copies of periodic filings and significant presentations made to investors; attendance at the orientation program for new directors, if desired; and other professional development opportunities, if appropriate and relevant to the duties of a director of the Corporation, including presentations and programs offered by various outside organizations, with appropriate expenses paid by the Corporation.
 
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board reviews and reassesses these Guidelines periodically and submits any recommended changes to the Board for its approval.
 
The Corporate Governance Committee leads the Board in an annual self-evaluation to determine whether the Board and its committees are functioning effectively and in compliance with these Corporate Governance Guidelines. Such evaluation includes a review and assessment of the continuing independence of the Board's non-management directors. The Corporate Governance Committee solicits comments from all of the directors and reports annually to the Board on its assessment of the Board's performance and its recommendations for improvement.
 
All directors are encouraged to make suggestions at any time for the improvement of the Board's practices.
Copies of these Guidelines are available on the Corporation's website at . Copies will also be mailed to shareholders of the Corporation or other interested persons upon written request to:
www.northerntrust.com
Rose A. Ellis
Corporate Secretary
Northern Trust Corporation
50 South La Salle Street, M-9
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 


