FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20090914160320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 15, 2009 at approximately 9:00 a.m. (ET), Frederick H. Waddell, President and Chief Executive Officer of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Company"), will speak at the Barclays Capital 2009 Global Financial Services Conference (the "Conference") in New York City. The audio webcast of the presentation will be available live and for replay for 30 days from the presentation date and can be accessed from the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website at www.northerntrust.com/presentations. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 are the slides that Mr. Waddell will present at the Conference.
Also in attendance at the Conference will be Steven L. Fradkin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and William L. Morrison, Executive Vice President and co-President of Personal Financial Services. As announced by the Company on Tuesday, September 8, 2009, Mr. Fradkin has been named President of the Company's Corporate & Institutional Services Business Unit. Mr. Morrison will assume Mr. Fradkin's role as Chief Financial Officer.
The information in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 




