FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20090908090347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 3, 2009, Timothy J. Theriault resigned as PresidentCorporate and Institutional Services of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Company"), effective September 18, 2009, to pursue opportunities outside the financial sector.
On September 3, 2009, the Company's board of directors appointed Steven L. Fradkin as PresidentCorporate and Institutional Services, effective September 18, 2009. Mr. Fradkin, 47, has served as an Executive Vice President of the Company since January 21, 2003 and as Chief Financial Officer of the Company since January 20, 2004.
On September 3, 2009, the Company's board of directors appointed William L. Morrison to assume Mr. Fradkin's role as Chief Financial Officer, effective September 18, 2009. Mr. Morrison, 59, has served as an Executive Vice President of the Company since May 21, 2002 and as PresidentPersonal Financial Services of the Company since March 14, 2003.
The Company issued a press release announcing the leadership changes with respect to Mr. Theriault, Mr. Fradkin and Mr. Morrison on September 8, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
http://www.northerntrust.com
 
 Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) announced today that Steven L. Fradkin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2004, has been named President of Northern Trust's Corporate & Institutional Services Business Unit (C&IS).
CHICAGO, September 8, 2009
William L. Morrison, Executive Vice President and co-President of Personal Financial Services since 2003, will assume Mr. Fradkin's role as Chief Financial Officer.
Sherry Barrat, President, Northern Trust Personal Financial Services, will assume Bill Morrison's current responsibilities.
Fradkin, Morrison and Barrat will continue to report to President and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell.
Timothy J. Theriault is stepping down as C&IS President to pursue interests outside of the financial services sector.
"Today's announcements are a testament to the depth and strength of the leadership at Northern Trust to enable us to make these changes, which reinforce our commitment to industry-leading service, integrity and expertise to our personal and institutional clients," Waddell said. "I know that these experienced leaders will continue to make significant contributions to Northern Trust's success. We appreciate Tim's many contributions to Northern Trust over the past 25 years and we wish him well in all of his future endeavors."
C&IS is a global provider of asset servicing, asset management, and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies and government funds. In 2008, its reported revenues totalled $2.6 billion.
About Northern Trust
Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) is a leading provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, banking solutions and fiduciary services for corporations, institutions and affluent individuals worldwide. Northern Trust, a financial holding company based in Chicago, has offices in 18 U.S. states and 15 international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. As of June 30, 2009, Northern Trust had assets under custody of US$3.2 trillion, and assets under investment management of US$558.9 billion. For 120 years, Northern Trust has earned distinction as an industry leader in combining exceptional service and expertise with innovative products and technology. For more information, visit .
http://www.northerntrust.com


