FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20090617170922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 17, 2009, Northern Trust Corporation (the "Company") entered into a Repurchase Letter Agreement (the "Repurchase Agreement") with the United States Department of the Treasury (the "Treasury"), pursuant to which the Company repurchased all 1,576,000 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, without par value and with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), for an aggregate repurchase price of $1.576 billion plus a final accrued dividend. Previously, the Company had issued and sold to the Treasury (i) the Preferred Shares and (ii) a ten-year warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase up to 3,824,624 shares of the Company's common stock, par value $1.66 2/3 per share (the "Common Stock"), at an exercise price of $61.81 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $1.576 billion in cash, pursuant to the terms of a Letter Agreement, dated November 14, 2008, and the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms attached thereto (collectively, the "Securities Purchase Agreement"), as part of the Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program.
The repayment is expected to reduce the Company's net income applicable to common stock by approximately $68.6 million in the second quarter of 2009. This one time reduction is attributable to the accelerated recognition of the remaining difference between the carrying value of the Preferred Shares and their liquidation preference and is in addition to dividends on the Preferred Shares of $19.5 million that were recorded in the current quarter through the redemption date.
Also on June 17, 2009, the Company delivered to the Treasury a notice of intent to repurchase the Warrant in accordance with the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the Repurchase Agreement, if the Company and the Treasury fail to agree on the fair market value of the Warrant pursuant to the procedures and in accordance with the time periods set forth in the Securities Purchase Agreement, or if the Company revokes the delivery of its Warrant Repurchase Notice, the Company must issue and deliver to the Treasury a substitute warrant in substantially the form of the Warrant, except with the deletion of Section 13(H) of the Warrant, within five calendar days of such occurrence.
A copy of the Repurchase Agreement is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On June 17, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the Preferred Stock repurchase transaction and warrant repurchase notice described above. A copy of the press release is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
UST 4
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Letter Agreement incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement  Standard Terms (the ), dated as of the date set forth on Schedule A hereto, between the United States Department of the Treasury (the ) and the company set forth on Schedule A hereto (the . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Securities Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, at the Closing, the Company issued to the Investor the number of shares of the series of its preferred stock set forth on Schedule A hereto (the ) and a warrant to purchase the number of shares of its common stock set forth on Schedule A hereto (the ).
"Securities Purchase Agreement"
"Investor"
"Company")
"Preferred Shares"
"Warrant"
In connection with the consummation of the repurchase (the ) by the Company from the Investor, on the date hereof, of the number of Preferred Shares listed on Schedule A hereto (the ), as permitted by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009:
"Repurchase"
"Repurchased Preferred Shares"
(a) The Company hereby acknowledges receipt from the Investor of the share certificate(s) set forth on Schedule A hereto representing the Preferred Shares; and
(b) The Investor hereby acknowledges receipt from the Company of a wire transfer to the account of the Investor set forth on Schedule A hereto in immediately available funds of the aggregate purchase price set forth on Schedule A hereto, representing payment in full for the Repurchased Preferred Shares at a price per share equal to the Liquidation Amount per share, together with any accrued and unpaid dividends to, but excluding, the date hereof.
The Investor and the Company hereby agree that, notwithstanding Section 4.4 of the Securities Purchase Agreement, immediately following consummation of the Repurchase, but subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, the Investor shall be permitted to Transfer all or a portion of the Warrant or Substitute Warrant (as defined below) with respect to, and/or exercise the Warrant or Substitute Warrant for, all or a portion of the number of shares of Common Stock issuable thereunder, at any time and without limitation, and Section 4.4 of the Securities Purchase Agreement shall be deemed to be amended in order to permit the foregoing. The Company shall take all steps as may be reasonably requested by the Investor to facilitate any such Transfer.
In addition, the Company agrees that within 15 calendar days of the date hereof the Company shall either (a) deliver to the Investor a notice of intent to repurchase the Warrant in accordance with Section 4.9(b) of the Securities Purchase Agreement (the ), or (b) issue and deliver to the Investor a new warrant, in substantially the form of the Warrant, except
"Warrant Repurchase
Notice"
UST 4
 
with the deletion of Section 13(H) thereof, to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock into which the Warrant is then exercisable (the ), which Substitute Warrant shall be deemed the for all purposes under the Securities Purchase Agreement.
"Substitute Warrant"
"Warrant"
In the event that the Company delivers a Warrant Repurchase Notice and the Company and the Investor fail to agree on the Fair Market Value of the Warrant pursuant to the procedures (including the Appraisal Procedure), and in accordance with the time periods, set forth in Section 4.9(c) of the Securities Purchase Agreement or the Company revokes the delivery of such Warrant Repurchase Notice, then the Company shall deliver a Substitute Warrant to the Investor within 5 calendar days of the earlier of the failure to agree on the Fair Market Value and the revocation of the Warrant Repurchase Notice.
Effective as of the date of receipt of the Substitute Warrant, if applicable, the Investor hereby provides notice, pursuant to Section 4.5(p) of the Securities Purchase Agreement, of its intention to sell the Substitute Warrant.
This letter agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the federal law of the United States if and to the extent such law is applicable, and otherwise in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
This letter agreement may be executed in any number of separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts will together constitute the same agreement. Executed signature pages to this letter agreement may be delivered by facsimile and such facsimiles will be deemed sufficient as if actual signature pages had been delivered.
 
UST 4
 
In witness whereof, the parties have duly executed this letter agreement as of the date first written above.
 
UST 4
 
SCHEDULE A
:
General Information
Date of Letter Agreement incorporating the Securities Purchase Agreement: November 14, 2008
Name of the Company: Northern Trust Corporation
Corporate or other organizational form of the Company: Corporation
Jurisdiction of organization of the Company: Delaware
Number and series of preferred stock issued to the Investor at the Closing: 1,576,000 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
Number of Initial Warrant Shares: 3,824,624
:
Terms of the Repurchase
Number of Preferred Shares repurchased by the Company: 1,576,000
Share certificate number (representing the Preferred Shares previously issued to the Investor at the Closing): B 01
Per share Liquidation Amount of Preferred Shares: $1,000
Accrued and unpaid dividends on Preferred Shares: $7,004,444.44
: $1,583,004,444.44
Aggregate purchase price for Repurchased Preferred Shares
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
http://www.northerntrust.com
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) announced today that it has repaid in full the $1.576 billion preferred share investment made by the U.S. Department of the Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The total purchase price included a final accrued dividend.
Chicago, June 17, 2009
"The TARP Capital Purchase Program played a necessary role in helping to stabilize the financial system during a period of crisis, and Northern Trust was proud to participate in the program as a strong, well-capitalized bank," said Northern Trust President and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell. "With today's action, the government has realized a positive return on its investment in Northern Trust. We would like to take this opportunity to once again acknowledge the taxpayers' support of the financial system during these difficult times."
The repayment is expected to reduce Northern Trust net income applicable to common stock by approximately $68.6 million in the second quarter of 2009. This one time reduction is attributable to the accelerated recognition of the remaining difference between the carrying value of the preferred shares and their liquidation preference and is in addition to dividends on the preferred shares of $19.5 million that were recorded in the current quarter through the redemption date.
Northern Trust also gave notice of its intention to buy back a related warrant issued to the Treasury that permits the purchase of up to 3,824,624 shares of common stock at $61.81 per share within a 10-year period, in accordance with the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement.
About Northern Trust
Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) is a leading provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, fiduciary and banking solutions for corporations, institutions and affluent individuals worldwide. Northern Trust, a financial holding company based in Chicago, has a network of 85 offices in 18 U.S. states and has international offices in 15 locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. As of March 31, 2009, Northern Trust had assets under custody of US$2.8 trillion, and assets under investment management of US$522.3 billion. Northern Trust, founded in 1889, has earned distinction as an industry leader in combining exceptional service and expertise with innovative products and technology. For more information, visit .
http://www.northerntrust.com


