FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20091110164512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.05. Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
On November 10, 2009, the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") adopted amendments to the Corporation's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code"). The amended Code supersedes the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on November 11, 2008. A copy of the Code, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 14.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The following is a summary of the adopted amendments: (a) all persons covered by the Code are expressly instructed not to speak about the Corporation on the Internet and other media unless expressly authorized; (b) the list of laws in the Code with which the Corporation and its directors, officers, and employees must comply, which is not an exhaustive list, was expanded to refer to laws regulating political contributions and lobbying; (c) the statement of legal prohibitions states that certain laws may be violated when acting through a conduit; (d) the section of the Code on bribery and kickbacks underscores the broad scope of the applicable laws; (e) the obligation to report certain events was expanded to expressly include suspected criminal or regulatory violations; (f) the Code expressly states, consistent with long-standing policy, that the Corporation has proprietary rights in all property created or developed for it or created using the Corporation's resources, including the use of the Corporation's name; (g) the detailed provisions in Section VI of the Code regarding the disposition of reports made pursuant to the Code have been relocated, without substantive change, to an internal policy of the Corporation.
The amendments took effect upon adoption by the Board of Directors.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Also on November 10, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopted amendments to the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines (the "Guidelines"). The amendments to the Guidelines provide, among other things, that the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint up to three advisory directors to serve until the meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of stockholders or until such advisory director's earlier resignation or termination.
The amended Guidelines supersede the Corporate Governance Guidelines adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on January 23, 2009. A copy of the Guidelines, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 14.1
This Code applies to all directors of Northern Trust Corporation, all directors of subsidiaries of Northern Trust Corporation and all officers and employees of Northern Trust worldwide. More detailed Northern Trust policies and procedures that apply to all employees or certain groups are set forth in other documents. None of these other policies and procedures are part of this Code. Everyone covered by this Code is expected to conduct himself or herself consistently with this Code and all other policies that address specific legal requirements imposed by laws and regulations in countries in which Northern Trust does business.
We expect everyone covered by this Code to adhere to our overriding commitment to the highest standards of integrity, ethics, honesty and respect for all persons with whom we deal, within and outside Northern Trust. This Code helps us enhance our relationships with our clients, each other, and all of the people that contribute to Northern Trust's success. Compliance with the Code, other Northern Trust policies and procedures, and the laws and regulations referred to in those documents is an important part of that commitment.
Frederick H. Waddell
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Board of Directors has adopted this Code to:
 
 
 
 
 
All Northern Trust directors, officers and employees are expected to be familiar with this Code and to adhere to all of the Code's applicable principles and procedures. More detailed policies and procedures, which are not part of this Code, also apply to some or all of Northern Trust's directors, officers and employees.
 
"Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation
"Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer" means the Corporation's Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
"Code" means this Northern Trust Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
"Code of Ethics Contact Person" is the Corporate Secretary
"Corporation" means Northern Trust Corporation
"General Counsel" means the Corporation's General Counsel
"Northern Trust," "we" or "our" refers to the Corporation and its direct and indirect subsidiaries
"You" means each person covered by this Code
Each of our directors, officers and employees owes a duty to Northern Trust to act with integrity and to treat colleagues, clients, suppliers and other third parties with dignity and respect. Integrity requires, among other things, being honest, ethical and candid.
Each Northern Trust director, officer and employee must:
 
 
 
 
 
This Code presents a number of obligations and prohibitions. In fulfilling your daily responsibilities to Northern Trust you may confront ethical questions from time to time. We expect our directors, officers and employees to be able to resolve many uncertainties themselves. It will sometimes be necessary, however, to contact the Code of Ethics Contact Person or some other person in authority to resolve a question. When faced with a difficult ethical question, you should:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A "conflict of interest" occurs when an individual's real or apparent private interest interferes or appears to interfere with the interests of Northern Trust. A conflict of interest can arise when you take action or have an interest that may make it difficult to perform your Northern Trust work objectively and effectively. For example, a conflict of interest would arise if you or a member of your family received an improper personal benefit as a result of your position in Northern Trust. For these purposes, a family member includes the person's spouse, domestic partner, parents, stepparents, grandparents, children, stepchildren, brothers, sisters, mother- and father-in-law, sons- and daughters-in-law, and brothers- and sisters-in-law, as well as other persons living in the person's home (other than a tenant who is not otherwise included in the preceding list).
Any material transaction or relationship that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest should be discussed in advance with the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
Personal gain or advantage should be allowed to interfere with, or be given a higher priority than, service to Northern Trust. Accordingly, conflicts of interest should be avoided whenever possible. All business decisions regarding Northern Trust must be based solely on what is in the best interest of Northern Trust, without regard to any conflicting interest you may have.
never
Clear conflict of interest situations involving Northern Trust directors, officers and employees who occupy supervisory positions or who have discretionary authority in dealing with any third party specified below may include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such situations, if significant, should always be discussed with the Code of Ethics Contact Person. Some of the issues that present potential conflicts, such as the receipt of gifts, are dealt with in separate policies, not part of this Code, that are applicable to particular parts of the Northern Trust organization. Everyone must adhere to any applicable separate policies dealing with conflicts of interest in specific operations of Northern Trust or in specific places where Northern Trust does business.
You should recognize that some situations that would present a conflict for you may also present a conflict if a family member were in the same situation.
 
Each of our directors, officers or employees involved in Northern Trust's public disclosure process, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Corporation (the "Senior Financial Officers"), is required to be familiar with and comply with our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, to the extent relevant to his or her area of responsibility. As a publicly held corporation, the Corporation files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that must comply in all material respects with the applicable U.S. securities laws and SEC rules. In addition, any person having direct or supervisory authority regarding these SEC filings or our other public communications concerning its general business, results, financial condition and prospects should, to the extent appropriate within his or her area of responsibility, consult with other Northern Trust officers and employees and take other appropriate steps regarding these disclosures with the goal of making full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure.
Each of our directors, officers and employees who is involved in Northern Trust's public disclosure process, including the Senior Financial Officers, must:
 
 
 
Unless expressly authorized to speak for Northern Trust, no director, officer, or employee shall provide information regarding, or comment on matters pertaining to, Northern Trust in any media, including Internet chatrooms, networking sites, bulletin boards or blogs.
 
Northern Trust is committed to complying with all applicable laws, rules, codes and regulations wherever Northern Trust does business. These include applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist finance (collectively "AML") laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Northern Trust does business around the globe. They also include anti-bribery laws, fair dealing laws, economic sanction laws, anti-trust laws, anti-boycott laws, securities laws, banking laws, civil rights laws, and laws regulating political contributions and lobbying of all jurisdictions in which Northern Trust does business. It is the personal responsibility of each of you to adhere to the standards and restrictions imposed by applicable laws, rules and regulations. The following subsections address several types of legal prohibitions.
As a general rule, persons who possess material nonpublic information about an issuer of securities  whether it is the Corporation itself or another public company, such as a Northern Trust client  may be subject to the "abstain or disclose" rule. That is, they may be required by the securities laws either (1) to refrain from both trading in or recommending the purchase or sale of the securities of the corporation about which they have material nonpublic information, or of options on those securities, or from passing such information on to others ("tipping"), or (2) to disclose such information to the investing public before trading in those securities. In virtually all cases, of course, it will be improper for any of our directors, officers or employees to disclose that nonpublic information without the express permission of the original source of the information, such as the client from which the information was obtained. Impermissible tipping includes advising another person or entity to trade in a security when the director, officer or employee is prohibited from trading. These restrictions apply not only to our directors, officers and employees but in many situations to outsiders to whom Northern Trust provides information on a confidential basis, such as our accountants, attorneys and consultants.
It is also generally impermissible to trade in securities of company when the information was initially disclosed, or would be used, in breach of a duty to maintain the information in confidence, such as nonpublic information obtained from a client that is material to the value of a security issued by another company such as the client. This is sometimes referred to as "misappropriation."
any
The prohibitions in the prior two paragraphs remain in effect until the information has been substantially disclosed to the public or is no longer material.
Anyone who is uncertain about the application of legal rules in any jurisdiction involving a purchase or sale of any Northern Trust securities or any securities in companies that he or she is familiar with by virtue of that person's relationship with Northern Trust should consult with the General Counsel or the Corporation's Corporate Secretary before making any such purchase or sale.
 
Many jurisdictions have anti-bribery laws under which it is unlawful for any Northern Trust director, officer or employee to directly or indirectly (including through a conduit) solicit, demand or accept any gifts or other items of value intended to influence or reward that person in connection with any aspect of Northern Trust business.
Similarly, under the laws of numerous countries where Northern Trust does business, including the U.S., no Northern Trust director, officer or employee may directly or indirectly (including through a conduit) give a bribe, kickback or other similar payment or consideration to government officials in order to obtain business for Northern Trust or secure an improper advantage. For instance, under U.S. law, no Northern Trust staff member may make or grant a loan or gratuity to any bank examiner having authority over Northern Trust.
Many jurisdictions in addition to the U.S. impose prohibitions on behavior similar to those contained in the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). Under the FCPA, for example, it is a crime for a Northern Trust director, officer or employee or any agent, representative, or business partner of or consultant for Northern Trust  wherever that person is located worldwide  to give or offer to give money or anything of value with the intent to improperly influence the business decisions of officials or employees of a foreign government or its entities who have discretionary authority, including officials of
public international organizations. Providing gifts, travel, entertainment or other items of value (for example, favorable loan terms or debt forgiveness), or directing business directly or indirectly to particular vendors (for example, when specifically directed to do so by a foreign government) may constitute FCPA violations. The FCPA applies to U.S. persons or companies acting either inside or outside the United States as well as to foreign persons if they commit an act in furtherance of a bribe while in the United States. All of our directors, officers and employees are expected to adhere to local law and the Northern Trust Anti-Bribery/Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Compliance Policy (which is not part of this Code), always conforming to the most stringent requirement where multiple laws may apply.
 
AML laws and regulations are intended to safeguard the global financial system and the financial institutions that make up that system from the abuses of financial crime, including money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit financial transactions. Northern Trust is committed to complying with applicable AML laws and regulations of all countries in which it does business, as well as applicable U.S. government sanctions laws, including orders and regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, and all other applicable government sanctions laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Northern Trust does business. In order to maintain a strong global AML compliance program, the Corporation has adopted the Global Anti-Money Laundering/Anti-Financial Crimes and Economic Sanctions Compliance Policy (which is not part of this Code).
 
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for applying this Code to specific situations in which questions are presented to it and for evaluating whether there is any need for revisions to this Code.
Any Northern Trust director, officer or employee who becomes aware of any suspected past, ongoing, or potential violation of law, rules or regulations is required to notify the Code of Ethics Contact Person promptly. Alternatively, reports may be made using the procedures set forth in the Northern Trust Employee Hotline Information and Statement of Responsibility Regarding Business Abuse, which is posted on the Northern Trust Intranet. Failure to report is itself a violation of this Code.
Any questions relating to how this Code should be interpreted or applied, including questions about the legality of any proposed or actual conduct in any jurisdiction, should be addressed to the General Counsel, the Code of Ethics Contact Person or the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer. A Northern Trust director, officer or employee who is unsure whether proposed conduct by that person or any other person violates this Code should discuss the situation with the Code of Ethics Contact Person to prevent possible misunderstandings or worse at a later date. The General Counsel provides interpretations of this Code, which are subject to the final authority of the Corporate Governance Committee. Questions about the interpretation of other Northern Trust policies may be directed as provided in the Employee Hotline Information and Statement of Responsibility Regarding Business Abuse (which is not part of this Code). These documents address how anonymous reports of violations of Northern Trust policies may be made to The Network.
You must:
 
 
 
 
Any waiver of a provision of this Code for directors or executive officers of the Corporation may be made only by the Board of Directors. A waiver and the reasons for granting such a waiver must be disclosed in the manner required by the rules of the SEC or The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq"). Any waiver for directors of subsidiaries of the Corporation, or for Northern Trust officers or employees other than executive officers of the Corporation, may be made only by the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
promptly
 
Each of our directors, officers and employees owes a duty to Northern Trust to advance our business interests when the opportunity to do so arises. Our directors, officers and employees are prohibited from taking (or directing to a third party) a business opportunity that is discovered through the use of corporate property, information or position, unless Northern Trust has already been offered the opportunity and declined it.
More generally, directors, officers and employees are prohibited from using corporate property, corporate information or their position at Northern Trust for personal gain and from competing with Northern Trust. For these purposes Northern Trust corporate property includes asset owned by, leased by or licensed to Northern Trust, including tangible and intangible property, information assets (including hard copy and electronic data) and proprietary rights (including trademarks). This includes the "Northern Trust" name, which may not be used without authorization.
any
Northern Trust has proprietary rights in all property created or developed for Northern Trust resulting from any work performed by an employee for Northern Trust or that is created with Northern Trust resources. Sometimes the line between personal and Northern Trust benefits is difficult to draw, and sometimes there are both personal and Northern Trust benefits in the same activity. Any Northern Trust director, officer or employee who intends to make use of Northern Trust property or services in a manner not solely for the benefit of Northern Trust should consult beforehand with the Code of Ethics Contact Person.
In carrying out Northern Trust's business, our directors, officers and employees often learn confidential or proprietary information about Northern Trust, its clients, suppliers, or others with which it does business. Our directors, officers and employees must maintain the confidentiality of all information that is entrusted to them, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. Confidential or proprietary information of Northern Trust, and of other companies, includes any non-public information the disclosure of which would be harmful to the relevant company or useful or helpful to competitors. The obligation to maintain the confidentiality of this information continues after the person in possession of the information is no longer affiliated with Northern Trust.
 
We have a history of succeeding through honest business competition. Northern Trust does not seek competitive advantage through illegal or unethical business practices. Each of our directors, officers and employees should endeavor to deal fairly with Northern Trust's clients, service providers, suppliers, competitors and employees. No Northern Trust director, officer or employee should take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other unfair dealing practice. No Northern Trust director, officer or employee should seek to manipulate or otherwise tamper with any market, including the market for any financial instrument such as securities, commodities or loans.
 
All of our directors, officers and employees should protect Northern Trust's property (as specified in Section VII) and ensure its efficient use. All Northern Trust property should be used only for legitimate business purposes. Theft of corporate assets is prohibited and carelessness and waste should be avoided.
 
Each year, when the Corporation's Form 10-K is filed, the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, after consultation with the General Counsel and the Code of Ethics Contact Person, shall certify to the Board of Directors that he or she is not aware of any violation by the Corporation of any Nasdaq corporate governance listing standard.
 
This Code shall be posted on the Corporation's website. The fact that this Code is posted on the website shall be disclosed in the Corporation's Form 10-K each year. Northern Trust shall make such other disclosure of this Code as is required by law.
Adopted by the Board of Directors on November 10, 2009.

Exhibit 99.1
These Corporate Governance Guidelines (these "Guidelines") were adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") on October 20, 2009 and supersede the corporate governance guidelines adopted by the Board on January 23, 2009. These Guidelines are intended to assist the Board in the exercise of its responsibilities.
 
1. . In recent years, the Board has had between 12 and 16 members. A size in this range makes the Board large enough to allow for a diversity of perspectives and backgrounds without being so large as to impede effective discussion. The quality of the individuals serving and the overall balance of the Board are more important than the precise number of members. The Corporate Governance Committee periodically reviews the size of the Board, and these considerations could lead the Corporate Governance Committee to recommend to the Board, from time to time, a Board outside this range but within the range provided for in the Corporation's By-laws.
Size
2. . A majority of the Board shall be independent directors ("Independent Directors") as defined under the listing standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ"). No director shall qualify as an Independent Director unless the Board affirmatively determines that the director has no relationship with the Corporation which, in the opinion of the Board, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director and has no material relationship with the Corporation (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Corporation). To assist it in making determinations of independence, the Board may adopt, and disclose on its website, categorical standards. The Corporation will disclose, in its annual proxy statement, the names of those directors that the Board has determined to be independent under the NASDAQ listing standards and any categorical standards adopted by the Board and will describe, by specific category or type, for each director or nominee for director determined to be independent, any transactions, relationships or arrangements not disclosed in the proxy statement that were considered by the Board in making the determination. The Board would not expect to have more than two employee directors except in unusual circumstances, such as during a transition in leadership.
Independence
3. . No director may stand for election to the Board after his or her 72
Retirement
nd
birthday except in unusual circumstances approved by the Board. It is also expected that employee directors will resign from the Board at the time they resign or retire from the Corporation.
4. . A director who resigns or is terminated from the primary position that such director held when elected to the Board shall tender his or her resignation as a director to the Corporate Governance Committee, effective upon the Board's acceptance of the resignation. The Corporate Governance Committee will review the desirability of the director's continued service on the Board under the circumstances and will make a recommendation to the Board as to whether or not the Board should accept the resignation.
Change of Job Responsibility
5. . The Board as a whole is responsible for selecting candidates for director. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for screening and recommending candidates. In discharging this responsibility, the Committee considers the nature of the expertise and experience required for the performance of the duties of a director of a corporation engaged in the Corporation's business and such matters as the relevant business and industry experience, professional background, age, current employment, community service and other board service of candidates for directors, as well as the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee seeks to identify, as candidates for director, persons with a reputation for and record of integrity and good business judgment who (1) have experience in positions with a high degree of responsibility and are leaders in the organizations with which they are affiliated, (2) are free from conflicts of interest that could interfere with a director's duties to the Corporation and its stockholders, and (3) are willing and able to make the necessary commitment of time and attention required for effective Board service. The Corporate Governance Committee also takes into account the candidate's level of financial literacy. The Corporate Governance Committee monitors the mix of skills and experience of the directors in order to assess whether the Board has the necessary tools to perform its oversight function effectively.
Candidates
6. . Although the Corporate Governance Committee will consider length of service in recommending candidates for re-election, the Board does not believe that adopting a set term limit for directors serves the interests of the Corporation.
Term Limits
7. . No director may serve on the board of directors of more than four public companies, in addition to the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee takes into account the competing demands on a person's time in deciding whether or not to recommend to the Board such person's nomination or renomination as a director.
Service on Other Boards
8. . The Board should remain free to configure leadership of the Board and the Corporation in the way that best serves the Corporation's interests at the time and, accordingly, has no fixed policy with respect to combining or separating the offices of Chairman and CEO.
Leadership
9. . Director compensation should be set by the Board. The Compensation and Benefits Committee, with the assistance of the Corporation's staff, reviews the amount and composition of director compensation from time to time and makes recommendations to the Board when it concludes changes are needed. In recommending director compensation, the Compensation and Benefits Committee considers the potential negative effect on director independence if director compensation and perquisites exceed customary levels.
Compensation
10. . The Board may, from time to time, by majority vote, appoint up to three advisory directors to serve until the Board meeting following the next annual meeting of stockholders or until such advisory director's earlier resignation or termination by a majority of the Board. Advisory Directors may be invited to meetings of the Board or any committees of the Board and, if present, may participate in the discussions occurring at such meetings. Advisory Directors also may be appointed as Advisory Directors to one or more committees of the Board, as determined by the Board's Corporate Governance Committee. Advisory Directors shall not be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum of the Board or a committee of the Board is present and shall not have any of a director's rights, powers or privileges, including the right to vote at such meetings. Advisory Directors will be entitled to receive fees for such service in such form and amount as recommended by the Compensation and Benefits Committee and approved by the Board, and shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel and other out-of-pocket business expenses incurred in connection with attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees. Advisory Directors shall be subject to all of the Corporation's policies applicable to directors, including the Corporation's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. References in the Corporation's By-laws to "Directors" shall not include Advisory Directors.
Advisory Directors
1. . In an uncontested election of directors (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board), any incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes present and voting at the meeting of stockholders will promptly tender his or her resignation to the Chairman of the Board (or such other director designated by the Board if the director failing to receive the majority of votes cast is the Chairman of the Board) following certification of the stockholder vote. Such resignation shall be effective upon its acceptance by the Board.
Required Resignation
2. . The Corporate Governance Committee will promptly consider the resignation submitted by an incumbent director who fails to receive a majority of the votes, and the Corporate Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to accept the tendered resignation or reject it. In considering whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, the Corporate Governance Committee will consider all factors deemed relevant by the members of the Corporate Governance Committee including, without limitation, any stated reasons stockholders did not support such director, the length of service and qualifications of the director whose resignation has been tendered, the director's contributions to the Corporation, and these Guidelines.
Consideration of Resignation
3. . The Board will act on the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation no later than 90 days following the date of the stockholders' meeting where the election occurred. In considering the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, the Board will consider the factors considered by the Corporate Governance Committee and such additional information and factors the Board believes to be relevant. Following the Board's decision on the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, the Corporation will promptly publicly disclose the Board's decision whether to accept the resignation as tendered (providing a full explanation of the process by which the decision was reached and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation) in a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Board Action
4. . To the extent that one or more directors' resignations are accepted by the Board, the Corporate Governance Committee will recommend to the Board whether to fill such vacancy or vacancies or to reduce the size of the Board.
Vacancies
5. . Any director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this provision will not participate in the Corporate Governance Committee recommendation or Board consideration regarding whether or not to accept the tendered resignation. If a majority of the members of the Corporate Governance Committee failed to receive a majority of the votes at the same election, then the independent directors who are on the Board who did receive a majority of the votes (or who were not standing for election) will appoint a Board committee amongst themselves solely for the purpose of considering the tendered resignations and will recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject them. This Board committee may, but need not, consist of all of the Independent Directors who received a majority of the votes or who were not standing for election.
Recusal of Certain Directors
6. . These Guidelines will be summarized or included in each proxy statement relating to an election of directors of the Corporation.
Inclusion in Proxy Statement
1. . Directors are expected to exercise their business judgment in good faith and in what they reasonably believe to be the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders. In discharging those obligations, directors should be entitled to rely on the honesty and integrity of the Corporation's senior management and outside advisors and auditors.
General Responsibilities of Directors
2. . Directors shall be entitled to indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law and by the Corporation's charter and By-laws and to exculpation as provided by state law and by the Corporation's charter. Directors shall also be entitled to have the Corporation purchase reasonable directors' and officers' liability insurance on their behalf.
Indemnification
3. . The Chairman of the Board is responsible for setting and circulating in advance an agenda for each meeting. Any director may suggest items for inclusion on the agenda or may raise, at any Board meeting, subjects that are not on the agenda for that meeting. The Board expects that meeting agendas will include on a regular basis a review of financial performance and a review of the Corporation's business strategies and practices.
Agendas
4. . Directors are expected to attend Board meetings and to spend the time needed to discharge their responsibilities as directors. Materials with respect to matters on which action is expected to be taken are circulated to the Board at least several days in advance of the meeting whenever possible, and directors are expected to review these materials in advance of the meeting. Financial reports, certain Committee minutes and other background materials are also circulated in advance of the meeting and during months when the Board is not scheduled to meet.
Meeting Attendance and Preparation
5. . Directors are expected to attend the annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders.
Attendance at Annual Meeting of Stockholders
6. . The Independent Directors shall meet, without management, at regularly scheduled executive sessions which may take place after a regularly scheduled meeting of the full board. Such regularly scheduled executive sessions shall be held at least twice a year. The Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee also may call a special executive session of the Independent Directors at any time. Such special executive sessions may take place after a regular or special meeting of the full board or at such other time as the Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee deems appropriate. The Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee or, in his or her absence, the Chairman of the Audit, Compensation and Benefits, Business Risk or Business Strategy Committee shall preside at the executive sessions, as disclosed in the Corporation's annual proxy statement.
Executive Sessions of Independent Directors
7. . The Corporation discloses, in its annual proxy statement and on its website, one or more methods by which stockholders and other interested parties may communicate directly with the Board of Directors, including the Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee, who presides over executive sessions of the Independent Directors, and the Independent Directors as a group.
Communications with Directors
8. . The Board expects that senior officers of the Corporation will regularly attend Board and Committee meetings, present proposals and otherwise assist in the work of the Board. Members of the Board have direct access to any of the Corporation's employees.
Access to Employees
9. . The Board has the power to hire independent legal, financial or other advisors as it deems necessary, without consulting or obtaining the approval of any officer of the Corporation in advance, and the Corporation will pay any fees and expenses incurred in connection with the engagement.
Authority to Engage Advisors
 
1. . The Corporation will have at all times Audit, Corporate Governance, and Compensation and Benefits Committees. The Corporation also has Business Risk, Business Strategy, and Executive Committees. The responsibilities of each Committee and any membership requirements are contained in the Corporation's By-laws and a charter approved by the Board. The Corporation complies with all applicable NASDAQ listing standards and regulatory requirements concerning the membership of Board Committees, including those with respect to the independence of the directors who serve on those Committees. Employees of the Corporation do not serve on any of the Committees other than the Executive Committee, although the staff work needed for each Committee is coordinated by a designated officer of the Corporation. The Corporate Governance Committee reviews the Committee structure of the Board and the membership of the various Committees at least annually and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
Numbers and Composition of Committees
2. . The Board believes that Committee assignments should be based on the director's knowledge, interests and areas of expertise. The Chairman of the Board will normally chair the Executive Committee. The Chairmanship of other Committees should change at intervals of approximately five years, and there should also be a regular rotation in the membership of the Committees, balancing in each case the need for fresh perspective with the need for experience and continuity.
Committee Chairmen and Membership
3. . The Committee Chairman, in consultation with the Committee members, determines the frequency of Committee meetings. Directors are expected to attend meetings of the Committees on which they sit and to spend the time needed to discharge their responsibilities as members of those Committees. The agenda and any background materials for Committee meetings may be developed in consultation with Committee members, management, or the executive officer responsible for supporting the Committee and are circulated in advance of a meeting whenever practical. Committee members are expected to review these materials in advance of the meeting. The Committee Chairmen report to the Board after each meeting, and minutes of the Committees are circulated to the Board.
Committee Meeting Procedures
 
1. . A key responsibility of the Board is to monitor the performance of the CEO and, in consultation with the CEO, the performance of other senior officers. The Compensation and Benefits Committee annually conducts a formal management development and succession planning review, to which all of the Corporation's directors are invited, and reports to the Board.
Evaluation of Senior Officers
2. . The Compensation and Benefits Committee reviews, and following Committee discussions, with and without the CEO, and the Committee's annual management development and succession planning review to which all of the Corporation's directors are invited, makes recommendations to the Board concerning management development and succession planning activities. The Corporate Governance Committee discusses succession planning in the event of the
Succession Planning
unexpected death, incapacity or resignation of the CEO and recommends to the Board, after consultation with the Chairman of the Corporation's Compensation and Benefits Committee, an appropriate successor under such circumstances.
3. . Management speaks for the Corporation. Inquiries from institutional investors, the press and others should be referred to the CEO or other appropriate officers.
Communication
 
All new directors are required to participate in an orientation program, which is generally conducted within four months of each annual meeting at which new directors are elected. The orientation program includes the introduction of the new directors to the Corporation's principal officers and presentations by senior management to familiarize new directors with the Corporation's strategic plans and business units and generally includes a visit to the Corporation's headquarters. Continuing professional development opportunities for all other directors will be conducted through the Corporation's regular Board meetings and Board meeting materials; periodic Board or Board Committee presentations by the Corporation's officers concerning the Corporation's strategies, initiatives, business plans, management structure, compliance programs, and significant financial, accounting and risk management issues; Board or Board Committee presentations by outside parties concerning industry issues and other business, legal and regulatory matters; copies of periodic filings and significant presentations made to investors; attendance at the orientation program for new directors, if desired; and other professional development opportunities, if appropriate and relevant to the duties of a director of the Corporation, including presentations and programs offered by various outside organizations, with appropriate expenses paid by the Corporation.
 
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board reviews and reassesses these Guidelines periodically and submits any recommended changes to the Board for its approval.
 
The Corporate Governance Committee leads the Board in an annual self-evaluation to determine whether the Board and its committees are functioning effectively and in compliance with these Guidelines. Such evaluation includes a review and assessment of the continuing independence of the Board's non-management directors. The Corporate Governance Committee solicits comments from all of the directors and reports annually to the Board on its assessment of the Board's performance and its recommendations for improvement. All directors are encouraged to make suggestions at any time for the improvement of the Board's practices.
Rose A. Ellis
Corporate Secretary
Northern Trust Corporation
50 South La Salle Street, M-9
Chicago, Illinois 60603


