FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20100526110106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 26, 2010, beginning at approximately 10:30 a.m. (ET), the following officers of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") will speak at the Corporation's 2010 Investor Day event to be held at the NASDAQ MarketSite in New York City: Frederick H. Waddell, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; William L. Morrison, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Sherry S. Barrat, President  Personal Financial Services; Steven L. Fradkin, President  Corporate & Institutional Services; Stephen N. Potter, President  Northern Trust Global Investments; and Robert P. Browne, Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer. The audio webcast of the presentations will be available live and for replay for 30 days from the presentation date and can be accessed from the "Investor Relations" section of the Corporation's website at www.northerntrust.com/presentations. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 are the slides that will be presented at the Corporation's 2010 Investor Day.
The information in this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 




