FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20110419142242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective April 19, 2011, William D. Smithburg retired from the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") consistent with the retirement guidelines in the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
 
On April 19, 2011, the Corporation announced that Martin P. Slark was elected to the Board at the Corporation's 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. As previously reported, Mr. Slark will fill the Board seat vacated by Mr. Smithburg. Following Mr. Slark's election to the Board, the Board appointed him to its Business Risk and Business Strategy Committees.
The press release announcing the retirement of William D. Smithburg and the election of Martin P. Slark is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
http://www.northerntrust.com
 
 Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) announced today that Martin P. Slark has been elected to its board of directors. William D. Smithburg has stepped down after 30 years of distinguished service, consistent with retirement guidelines for directors.
CHICAGO, April 19, 2011
"We are very pleased to welcome Martin to the board," Northern Trust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell said. "Northern Trust will benefit greatly from Martin's extensive global management experience and personal leadership."
Martin P. Slark is vice chairman and chief executive officer at Molex Incorporated. Slark has served Molex for 35 years and held senior leadership positions including president and chief operating officer, president of the Americas Region, and president of the Far East South Region. He has held positions in the U.S., Europe and Asia, and is responsible for starting Molex entities in Hong Kong, China, India, South Africa, Malaysia and Thailand. He also serves on the board of directors at Molex, Liberty Mutual Holding Company, and Hub Group, Inc.
Molex delivers interconnect solutions for markets that include data communications, telecommunications, consumer electronics, industrial, automotive, medical, military, lighting and solar. Established in 1938, the corporation operates 39 manufacturing locations in 16 countries, employs more than 35,000 people worldwide and had revenues of $3 billion in its fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. In 2010 Molex reported 76 percent net revenue outside of the United States, with 60 percent originated in Asia-Pacific and 16 percent in Europe.
Effective today, William D. Smithburg concluded his service to Northern Trust Corporation's board of directors. Smithburg is a retired chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Quaker Oats Company. He sits on the board of directors of Abbott Laboratories, Corning Incorporated and Barry-Wehmiller Companies, Inc.
"Bill's knowledge and counsel has significantly contributed to Northern Trust's successful growth," Waddell said. "We are grateful for his leadership and thank him for his many years of outstanding service to Northern Trust."
About Northern Trust
Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) is a leading provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, banking solutions and fiduciary services for corporations, institutions and affluent individuals worldwide. Northern Trust, a financial holding company based in Chicago, has offices in 18 U.S. states and 16 international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. As of December 31, 2010, Northern Trust had assets under custody of US$4.1 trillion, and assets under investment management of US$643.6 billion. For more than 120 years, Northern Trust has earned distinction as an industry leader in combining exceptional service and expertise with innovative products and technology. For more information, visit .
www.northerntrust.com


