FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20121016134632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 16, 2012, the Board of Directors of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") elected Jose Luis Prado Becerra as a director of the Corporation and The Northern Trust Company, the Corporation's principal subsidiary, effective October 16, 2012. The Board of Directors of the Corporation has also appointed Mr. Prado to the Business Risk and Business Strategy Committees.
Mr. Prado has served as president of Quaker Oats North America, a division of PepsiCo, since 2011, and held leadership roles at the company since 1984. His previous roles within PepsiCo include serving as president and chief executive officer of Grupo Gamesa-Quaker in Monterrey, Mexico, from 2002 to 2010; regional vice president of the Frito Lay International Andean Region from 2000 to 2002; president of PepsiCo Snacks in Argentina from 1997 to 2000; and president of Frito Lay Snacks Caribbean, from 1994 to 1997. His early career included assignments in sales, finance, IT and engineering. Mr. Prado serves on the boards of GENYOUth, a national non-profit organization dedicated to inspiring and motivating children to eat healthy and be active; the Chicago Council on Global Affairs; and the Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility. Within PepsiCo, he is an Executive Sponsor of an employee resource group helping to promote diversity.
Mr. Prado will participate in the Corporation's non-employee director compensation program, which is described in the Corporation's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2012.
 
On October 16, 2012, the Corporation issued a press release announcing the election of Mr. Prado to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the Board of Directors of The Northern Trust Company. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
Media Contact:
Doug Holt
312-557-1571
Doug_Holt@ntrs.com
http://www.northerntrust.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Northern Trust Elects Jose Luis Prado to Board
- (Nasdaq: NTRS) announced today that Jose Luis Prado, president of Quaker Oats North America, has been elected to its board of directors, effective Oct. 16, 2012.
CHICAGO, October 16, 2012
Northern Trust
"We are delighted to welcome Jose Luis Prado to our board," Northern Trust Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell said. "He is an outstanding business leader with more than 30 years of leadership experience building multi-country enterprises. We look forward to his contributions as Northern Trust continues to grow and deliver innovative financial services to clients worldwide."
Prado has served as president of Quaker Oats North America, a division of PepsiCo with $2.5 billion in revenues, since 2011, and held leadership roles at the company since 1984. His previous roles within PepsiCo include serving as president and chief executive officer of Grupo Gamesa-Quaker in Monterrey, Mexico, from 2002 to 2010; regional vice president of the Frito Lay International Andean Region from 2000 to 2002; president of PepsiCo Snacks in Argentina from 1997 to 2000; and president of Frito Lay Snacks Caribbean, from 1994 to 1997. His early career included assignments in Sales, Finance, IT and Engineering.
Prado serves on the boards of GENYOUth, a national non-profit organization dedicated to inspiring and motivating children to eat healthy and be active; the Chicago Council on Global Affairs; and the Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility. Within PepsiCo, he is an Executive Sponsor of an employee resource group helping to promote diversity.
Northern Trust Elects Jose Luis Prado to Board of Directors / Page 2
 
About Northern Trust
Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq: NTRS) is a leading provider of investment management, asset and fund administration, banking solutions and fiduciary services for corporations, institutions and affluent individuals worldwide. Northern Trust, a financial holding company based in Chicago, has offices in 18 U.S. states and 16 international locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. As of June 30, 2012, Northern Trust had assets under custody of US$4.6 trillion, and assets under investment management of US$704.3 billion. For more than 120 years, Northern Trust has earned distinction as an industry leader in combining exceptional service and expertise with innovative products and technology. For more information, visit www.northerntrust.com or follow us on Twitter @NorthernTrust.


