FILE:NTRS/NTRS-8K-20120419111814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(a) Effective April 17, 2012, Robert C. McCormack and Enrique J. Sosa retired from the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Northern Trust Corporation (the "Corporation") consistent with the retirement guidelines in the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
(e) The Board previously approved, subject to stockholder approval, the Northern Trust Corporation 2012 Stock Plan (the "2012 Plan"). According to the results from the Corporation's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on April 17, 2012, the Corporation's stockholders approved the 2012 Plan. A more detailed summary of the material terms of the 2012 Plan appears on pages 83  90 of the Corporation's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 8, 2012 and in the Corporation's Definitive Additional Materials on Schedule 14A, which was filed with the SEC on March 22, 2012. The foregoing description of the 2012 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation was held on April 17, 2012 for the purposes of (i) electing 11 directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, (ii) holding an advisory vote on executive compensation, (iii) approving the 2012 Plan, (iv) ratifying the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Corporation's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year and (v) holding a vote on two stockholder proposals.
All of management's nominees for director as named in the proxy statement for the meeting were elected by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The Corporation's executive compensation was approved, on advisory basis, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The 2012 Plan was approved, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The appointment of KPMG LLP as the Corporation's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year was ratified by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The stockholder proposal regarding accelerated vesting of equity awards in a change in control situation was defeated, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
The stockholder proposal regarding independence of the board chairman was defeated, by the votes set forth in the table below.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Northern Trust Corporation 2012 Stock Plan (the "2012 Plan") was adopted on February 13, 2012 and became effective as of April 17, 2012 (the "Effective Date").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provisions for acceleration and any further provisions and limitations included by the Committee pursuant to subsection (a) must satisfy the requirements of Code Section 409A and applicable regulations and other guidance promulgated thereunder so as to avoid the income tax, interest and penalty provisions of Section 409A.
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change in Control" shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.
For purposes of the foregoing, the following definitions shall apply:
"Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, except that a Person shall not be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any securities with respect to which such Person has properly filed a form 13-G; "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; and "Person" shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except
 
that such term shall not include (i) the Corporation or any of its Affiliates, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefits plan of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Corporation in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A UK individual shall not be entitled to be granted Approved Stock Options unless he is an Eligible Employee on the Date of Grant. Section 3 of the 2012 Plan shall be construed accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exceeding or further exceeding 30,000 or, if different, such other limit contained from time to time in Paragraph 6 of Schedule 4, and "market value" in paragraph 4.3(ii) shall be construed consistently with that Paragraph 6. Section 5 of the 2012 Plan shall be construed accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following paragraphs shall be added to Section 6 of the 2012 Plan to read as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following a variation of share capital (as that phrase is used in Paragraph 22 of Schedule 4) any adjustment proposed under Section 11 of the 2012 Plan shall not be effective in relation to Approved Stock Options unless the prior approval of an officer of HMRC has been obtained for such adjustment. No adjustments pursuant to Section 11 of the 2012 Plan may be made to Approved Stock Options other than in relation to such a variation of share capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then the Optionee may, by agreement with the Successor Company, at any time within the Appropriate Period, release any Approved Stock Option which has not lapsed ("the Old Option") in consideration of the grant to him of an Approved Stock Option (the "New Option") which (for the purposes of Paragraph 27 of Schedule 4) is equivalent to the Old Option but relates to shares in a different company (whether the Successor Company itself or some other company falling within Paragraph 27(2)(b) of Schedule 4). For this purpose, the New Option shall not he regarded as equivalent to the Old Option unless the conditions set out in Paragraph 27(4) of Schedule 4 are satisfied.
 
"Committee" means the Committee of Directors of the company in respect of whose shares New Options have been granted or a duly appointed committee thereof;
"Corporation" means the company or in respect of whose shares new options have been granted; and
"Shares" means fully paid ordinary shares or common stock in the capital of the company over whose shares New Options have been granted and which satisfy the conditions specified in Paragraphs 16 to 20 of Schedule 4.
 
For the purposes of this Addendum, subject to any rights of exercise by the Optionee's personal representative as set out in the Stock Option Agreement, every Approved Stock Option shall be personal to the Optionee and may not be sold, transferred or disposed of in any way. Section 12 of the 2012 Plan shall be construed accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the Corporation shall, to the extent necessary to reimburse the Optionee's Employer, have the right to sell as agent for the Optionee (at the best price which may reasonably be obtained at the time of sale) a sufficient number of the Shares acquired pursuant to that Approved Stock Option, and to procure the payment to the Optionee's Employer out of the net proceeds
 
of sale of those Shares (after deduction of all fees, commissions and expenses incurred in relation to that sale) of monies sufficient to satisfy the indemnity mentioned in paragraph 10.1.
 
The 2012 Plan shall be deemed amended as follows for the purposes of construing this Addendum:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


