FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20020724153444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Change in fiscal year
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Change in fiscal year
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ----------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 JULY 23, 2002 (Date of Report Date of earliest event reported) PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-16463 13-4004153 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) 701 MARKET STREET ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63101 (Address of principal executive offices, including Zip Code) (314) 342-3400 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
ITEM 5 - OTHER EVENTS. On July 23, 2002, the Board of Directors of Peabody Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), adopted a preferred share purchase rights plan (the "Rights Plan"). In connection with the Rights Plan, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Common Shares"). The Rights dividend is payable on August 12, 2002 (the "Record Date") to the stockholders of record on that date. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in an Agreement (the "Rights Agreement"), dated as of July 24, 2002, between the Company and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"). Purchase Price - -------------- Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), at a price of $110 per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share (the "Purchase Price"), subject to adjustment. Flip-In - ------- In the event that any person or group of affiliated or associated persons acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding Common Shares (an "Acquiring Person"), each holder of a Right, other than Rights beneficially owned by the Acquiring Person (which will thereafter be void), will thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise that number of Common Shares having a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. Flip-Over - --------- If the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction or 50% or more of its consolidated assets or earning power are sold after a person or group has become an Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right (other than Rights beneficially owned by the Acquiring Person, which will be void) will thereafter have the right to receive that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time of such transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. None of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation, Lehman Brothers Inc., a Delaware corporation, LB I Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking Partners II Inc., a Delaware corporation, Lehman Brothers Offshore Partners II Ltd, a Bermuda company, Lehman Brothers Merchant Banking Partners II L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Lehman Brothers Offshore Investment Partners II L.P., a Bermuda exempted limited partnership, Lehman Brothers Capital Partners III, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Lehman Brothers Capital Partners IV, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Lehman Brothers MBG partners 1998 (A) L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Lehman Brothers MBG partners 1998 (B) L.P., a Delaware -2-
limited partnership, and Lehman Brothers MBG partners 1998 (C) L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, (collectively the "Lehman Parties") shall be deemed to be an Acquiring Person, as long as the Lehman Parties and their affiliates in the aggregate beneficially own no more than the greater of (1) 15% or more of the Common Shares then outstanding and (2) 21,284,994 Common Shares less the sum of all Common Shares disposed of by the Lehman Parties to non-affiliates after the date of the Rights Agreement. Distribution Date - ----------------- The distribution date (the "Distribution Date") is the earlier of (1) 10 days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons have acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding Common Shares; or (2) 10 business days (or such later date as may be determined by action of the Board of Directors of the Company prior to such time as any person or group of affiliated persons becomes an Acquiring Person) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make, a tender offer or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding Common Shares. Transfer And Detachment - ----------------------- Until the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced either by book entry in the direct registration system of the Company or, with respect to any of the Common Share certificates outstanding as of the Record Date, by such Common Share certificate with a copy of the Summary of Rights attached thereto. Until the Distribution Date (or earlier redemption or expiration of the Rights), the Rights will be transferred with and only with the Common Shares, and transfer of those shares will also constitute transfer of the Rights. As soon as practicable following the Distribution Date, separate certificates evidencing the Rights ("Right Certificates") will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Shares as of the close of business on the Distribution Date and such separate Right Certificates alone will thereafter evidence the Rights. Exercisability - -------------- The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date. The Rights will expire at the earliest of (1) August 11, 2012 (the "Final Expiration Date"), unless the Final Expiration Date is extended, (2) the time at which the Rights are redeemed by the Company, as described below or (3) the time at which the Rights are exchanged by the Company, as described below. Adjustments - ----------- -3-
The Purchase Price payable, and the number of Preferred Shares or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution in the event of stock dividends, stock splits, reclassifications, or certain distributions with respect to the Preferred Shares. The number of outstanding Rights and the number of one one-hundredths of a Preferred Share issuable upon exercise of each Right are also subject to adjustment if, prior to the Distribution Date, there is a stock split of the Common Shares or a stock dividend on the Common Shares payable in Common Shares or subdivisions, consolidations or combinations of the Common Shares. With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments require an adjustment of at least 1% in such Purchase Price. No fractional Preferred Shares will be issued (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, which may, at the election of the Company, be evidenced by depositary receipts) and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the market price of the Preferred Shares on the last trading day prior to the date of exercise. Preferred Shares - ---------------- Preferred Shares purchasable upon exercise of the Rights will not be redeemable. Each Preferred Share will be entitled to a minimum preferential quarterly dividend payment of $1 per share but will be entitled to an aggregate dividend of 100 times the dividend declared per Common Share. In the event of liquidation, the holders of the Preferred Shares will be entitled to a minimum preferential liquidation payment of $100 per share but will be entitled to an aggregate payment of 100 times the payment made per Common Share. Each Preferred Share will have 100 votes, voting together with the Common Shares. Finally, in the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in which Common Shares are exchanged, each Preferred Share will be entitled to receive 100 times the amount received per Common Share. These rights are protected by customary antidilution provisions. The value of the one one-hundredth interest in a Preferred Share purchasable upon exercise of each Right should, because of the nature of the Preferred Shares' dividend, liquidation and voting rights, approximate the value of one Common Share. Exchange - -------- At any time after any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, and prior to the acquisition by such person or group of 50% or more of the outstanding Common Shares, the Board of Directors of the Company may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by the Acquiring Person, which will have become void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one Common Share, or one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share (subject to adjustment). Redemption - ---------- At any time prior to any person or group becoming an Acquiring Person, the Board of Directors of the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a -4-
price of $0.001 per Right (the "Redemption Price"). The redemption of the Rights may be made effective at such time on such basis with such conditions as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may establish. Immediately upon any redemption of the Rights, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the Redemption Price. Amendments - ---------- The terms of the Rights may be amended by the Board of Directors of the Company without the consent of the holders of the Rights, including an amendment to lower certain thresholds described above to not less than the greater of (1) the sum of .001% and the largest percentage of the outstanding Common Shares then known to the Company to be beneficially owned by any person or group of affiliated or associated persons and (2) 10%, except that from and after such time as any person or group of affiliated or associated persons becomes an Acquiring Person no such amendment may adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Rights. Rights And Holders - ------------------ Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends. Anti-Takeover Effects - --------------------- The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by the Company's Board of Directors, except pursuant to any offer conditioned on a substantial number of Rights being acquired. The Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board of Directors since the Rights may be redeemed by the Company at the Redemption Price prior to the time that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Common Shares. Further Information - ------------------- A copy of the Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company, filed on July 24, 2002; the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 24, 2002, between the Company and the Rights Agent, specifying the terms of the Rights and the press release announcing the declaration of the Rights are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1, 4.1 and 99.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Rights is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibits. ITEM 7(C) - EXHIBITS. 3.1 Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company, filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on July 24, 2002. -5-
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed on July 24, 2002.) 4.1 Rights Agreement, dated as of July 24, 2002, between the Company and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent (which includes the form of Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Preferred Stock of the Company as Exhibit A, the form of Right Certificate as Exhibit B and the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares as Exhibit C). (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed on July 24, 2002.) 99.1 Press release, dated July 23, 2002, issued by the Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed on July 24, 2002.) -6-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION Date: July 24, 2002 By: /s/ Richard A. Navarre --------------------------------- Name: Richard A. Navarre Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT LIST EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION NO. ----------- -- 3.1 Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company, filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on July 24, 2002. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed on July 24, 2002.) 4.1 Rights Agreement, dated as of July 24, 2002, between the Company and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent (which includes the form of Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Preferred Stock of the Company as Exhibit A, the form of Right Certificate as Exhibit B and the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares as Exhibit C). (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed on July 24, 2002.) 99.1 Press release, dated July 23, 2002, issued by the Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 8-A, filed on July 24, 2002.)


