FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20031017125135.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) 
October 16, 2003
     Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(314) 342-3400
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
See the Exhibit Index at page 4 of this report.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this report is being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On October 16, 2003, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") issued a press release setting forth Peabody's third quarter 2003 earnings, and providing guidance on Peabody's full year 2003 forecasted results. A copy of Peabody's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This press release includes certain non-GAAP and pro forma financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly related comparable GAAP measure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
The exhibits below are numbered in accordance with the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

 
Exhibit 99.1
ST. LOUIS, Oct. 16  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today reported third quarter income of $21.5 million, or $0.39 per share. Income for the first nine months of 2003 totaled $72.8 million, or $1.33 per share, before previously announced charges for early debt extinguishment and the cumulative effect of accounting changes totaling $63.7 million, or $1.16 per share.
     Third quarter EBITDA of $104.3 million came in at the high end of the company's targets of $95 million to $105 million, and EBITDA for the first nine months totaled $297.8 million.
     "The year is playing out as we expected," said Irl F. Engelhardt. "The Peabody team is holding the line on costs, market fundamentals are improving, and second-half sales volumes are higher."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
     Peabody posted third quarter revenues of $701.9 million, compared with $714.6 million in the prior year. The 2003 third quarter benefited from increased Western production and trading and brokerage sales that overcame softer pricing on contracts signed during 2002, while the prior year included $42.7 million of revenue from favorable Southwest contract resolutions.
     EBITDA totaled $104.3 million for the third quarter and $297.8 million for nine months, compared with $110.4 million and $337.9 million in the prior year (which included $37.1 million in favorable contract resolutions in the third quarter of 2002). Quarterly EBITDA benefited from per-ton operating cost improvement in both the East and the West as operations ran at more optimal levels. The latest industry data confirms that Peabody's Rawhide Mine is the most productive mine in America, and Peabody has three of the seven most productive operations in the country.
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  ADD ONE
     Cost controls offset a longer-than-expected ramp-up of the new 4 million ton-per-year Highland Mine in Western Kentucky due to performance problems with new equipment, start-up issues associated with the Vermilion Grove Mine and damage to an overland conveyor system in West Virginia. Operating profit totaled $35.6 million for the quarter and $100.4 million for the first nine months, compared with respective prior-year results of $51.3 million and $161.5 million that include the contract resolutions.
     Income totaled $21.5 million for the quarter and $72.8 million through nine months, excluding special items, compared with $29.0 million and $75.8 million in the prior-year periods. During the first half of 2003, the company reported $53.5 million in early debt extinguishment charges and a $10.2 million charge for the cumulative effect of accounting changes. Including these items, income totaled $9.1 million for the most recent nine months.
     As expected, results include tax benefits of $8.5 million for the quarter, which is primarily due to the ongoing tax effects of depletion. The company continues to anticipate full-year 2003 tax benefits of approximately $50 million, compared with $40 million in 2002.
     During the quarter, the company also:
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
MINING OPERATIONS: Gross margins from U.S. Mining Operations of $137.8 million increased 5 percent over the second quarter of 2003. Improved capacity utilization and a strong cost control focus overcame operating difficulties mentioned earlier. The company also experienced the normal downtime and higher maintenance expenses associated with scheduled mine vacation shutdowns.
     Capital expenditures eased to $27 million in the third quarter and totaled $119 million
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  ADD TWO
through nine months, after completing the majority of capital investments associated with the development of the Highland and Federal mines in the first half.
     Peabody also received four major awards for excellence in surface coal mining reclamation from the U.S. Department of the Interior. The honors include the first "Gold" Good Neighbor Award for the company's activities on Native American lands in Arizona, and the Director's Award for outstanding results reclaiming wetlands in Indiana. Peabody has earned the Director's Award for four consecutive years.
SALES AND TRADING: Peabody's record third-quarter sales volume of 52.6 million tons reflects a 6 percent increase over the prior year. Peabody's sales volumes were driven by record Powder River Basin shipments of 28.3 million tons in the quarter. Total 2003 sales are targeted in the range of 200  205 million tons, and production is targeted in the range of 175  180 million tons. Nine-month shipments of 150.2 million tons also set a record.
     Trading and brokerage operations continued to perform well, contributing gross margin of $9.3 million for the quarter and $40.7 million year to date.
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: Gross margin from Resource Management activities was $3.0 million for the third quarter and $17.0 million for nine months.
     Peabody also continues to make progress on the development of the Thoroughbred and Prairie State generating projects. The permitting process continues to advance for both projects, and strong interest exists from potential customers and partners for the projects.
MARKET OVERVIEW
     Peabody believes that coal market fundamentals continued to improve in the quarter:
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  ADD THREE
     These favorable factors have allowed Peabody to increase planned production levels from the 175  180 million ton range for 2003 to the 190 - 200 million ton range for 2004. Peabody has committed and priced 168 million tons of planned 2004 production and 111 million tons of planned 2005 production, as of Sept. 30. Peabody has strong upside, with 110  120 million tons of expected production to be priced over the next two years.
OUTLOOK
     Peabody continues to target full-year 2003 EBITDA in the range of $405 million to $415 million. Excluding charges related to early debt extinguishment of approximately $0.98 per share and the cumulative effect of accounting changes of approximately $0.18 per share, full-year 2003 earnings remain targeted in the range of $1.60 to $1.75 per share.
     Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company. Its coal fuels more than 9 percent of all U.S. electricity generation and more than 2 percent of worldwide electricity generation.
EBITDA (also called adjusted EBITDA) is defined as income before the cumulative effect of accounting changes before deducting net interest expense, income taxes, minority interests, asset retirement obligation expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization. EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for operating income, net income and cash flow as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management uses EBITDA as a key measure of operating performance and also believes it is a useful indicator of its ability to meet debt service and capital expenditure requirements.
This information includes certain non-GAAP and pro forma financial measures as defined by new SEC regulations. As required by those regulations, we have provided a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which is available in the "Investor Info" section of
www.PeabodyEnergy.com.
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  ADD FOUR
Certain statements in this press release are forward looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of the date of this release. These risks include, but are not limited to: growth in coal and power markets; coal's market share of electricity generation; the extent of the economic recovery and future economic conditions; milder-than-normal weather; railroad and other transportation performance and costs; the ability to renew sales contracts upon expiration or renegotiation; the ability to successfully implement operating strategies; the effectiveness of cost-cutting measures; regulatory and court decisions; future legislation; changes in post-retirement benefit and pension obligations; credit, market and performance risk associated with customers; modification or termination of long-term coal supply agreements; reductions of purchases by major customers; risks inherent to mining including geologic conditions or unforeseen equipment problems; terrorist attacks or threats affecting our operations or our customers' operations; changes in interpretation of tax law; replacement of reserves; implementation of new accounting standards; inflationary trends; the effects of interest rates on discounting future liabilities; the effects of acquisitions or divestitures; and other risks detailed from time to time in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the control of the company.
 
     
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
6
 
     
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
7
 
     
(In Millions)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
8

 
     
 -  EBITDA (also called adjusted EBITDA) is defined as income before cumulative effect of accounting changes before deducting net interest expense, early debt extinguishment costs, income taxes, minority interests, asset retirement obligation expense and depreciation, depletion and amortization. EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flow as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management uses EBITDA as a key measure of operating performance and also believes it is a useful indicator of its ability to meet debt service and capital expenditure requirements.
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes Full Year 2003 Targets
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share information)
Year Ending December 31, 2003
Certain statements above are forward looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of the date of this release. These risks include, but are not limited to: growth in coal and power markets; coal's market share of electricity generation; the extent of the economic recovery and future economic conditions; milder than normal weather; railroad and other transportation performance and costs; the ability to renew sales contracts upon expiration or renegotiation; the ability to successfully implement operating strategies; the effectiveness of cost-cutting measures; regulatory and court decisions; future legislation; changes in post-retirement benefit and pension obligations; credit, market and performance risk associated with customers; modification or termination of long-term coal supply agreements; reductions of purchases by major customers; risks inherent to mining including geologic conditions or unforeseen equipment problems; terrorist attacks or threats affecting our operations or our customers' operations; changes in interpretation of tax law; replacement of reserves; implementation of new accounting standards; inflationary trends; the effects of interest rates on discounting future liabilities; the effects of acquisitions or divestitures and other risks detailed from time to time in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the control of the company.
 
Reconciliation of Pro Forma Income and Earnings Per Share Results to GAAP Results
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share information)
Certain statements above are forward looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of the date of this release. These risks include, but are not limited to: growth in coal and power markets; coal's market share of electricity generation; the extent of the economic recovery and future economic conditions; milder than normal weather; railroad and other transportation performance and costs; the ability to renew sales contracts upon expiration or renegotiation; the ability to successfully implement operating strategies; the effectiveness of cost-cutting measures; regulatory and court decisions; future legislation; changes in post-retirement benefit and pension obligations; credit, market and performance risk associated with customers; modification or termination of long-term coal supply agreements; reductions of purchases by major customers; risks inherent to mining including geologic conditions or unforeseen equipment problems; terrorist attacks or threats affecting our operations or our customers' operations; changes in interpretation of tax law; replacement of reserves; implementation of new accounting standards; inflationary trends; the effects of interest rates on discounting future liabilities; the effects of acquisitions or divestitures and other risks detailed from time to time in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the control of the company.


