FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20040806165733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosures
        On August 6, 2004, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") issued a press release announcing the adoption by Irl F. Engelhardt, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, of a plan to sell a portion of the Peabody common stock and stock options beneficially owned by him pursuant Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
        The information in Item 9 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of such section, nor shall such information or exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

PEABODY ENERGY CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER ADOPTS 10B5-1 PLAN
ST. LOUIS, Aug. 6  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today announced that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Irl F. Engelhardt has adopted a plan to sell a portion of his company stock and stock options over time as part of a planned sales program. The program would diversify his asset portfolio, provide for his family's long-term financial security and offer transparency to Peabody shareholders.
        The plan was adopted in accordance with guidelines specified under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and Peabody's policies regarding stock transactions. Rule 10b5-1 allows officers and directors to adopt plans to gradually diversify their investment portfolios by having a third-party sell stock over an extended time period. The plans may only be entered into when the officers and directors are not in possession of material and non-public information. After implementation, the executive has no discretion over the shares and options sold under the plan.
        The plan will continue through December 2005 and applies to up to 40 percent of options and shares beneficially owned by Engelhardt. Other Peabody executives may also adopt 10b5-1 plans at their discretion.
        Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company, with 2003 sales of 203 million tons and $2.8 billion in revenues. Its coal products fuel more than 10 percent of all U.S. electricity and more than 2.5 percent of worldwide electricity.


