FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20040921160530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
September 16, 2004
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On September 16, 2004, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") and its wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary ("Seller") closed on an expansion of its accounts receivable securitization facility. Under the terms of the amended Agreement, the total facility capacity was increased from $140 million to $225 million and additional wholly-owned subsidiaries of Peabody are now eligible to participate in the facility. The maturity of the facility was also extended to September 2009. All other terms and conditions remain substantially unchanged.
Under the accounts receivable securitization program, undivided interests in a pool of eligible trade receivables that have been contributed to the Seller are sold, without recourse, to a multi-seller, asset-backed commercial paper conduit ("Conduit"). Purchases by the Conduit are financed with the sale of highly rated commercial paper.
The Seller is a separate legal entity whose assets are available first and foremost to satisfy the claims of its creditors. Eligible receivables, as defined in the securitization agreement, consist of trade receivables from certain of Peabody's domestic subsidiaries, and are reduced for certain items such as past due balances and concentration limits. Of the eligible pool of receivables contributed to the Seller, undivided interests in only a portion of the pool are sold to the Conduit.
If Peabody defaulted under the securitization agreement, or if its pool of eligible trade receivables decreased significantly, Peabody could be required to repurchase all or a portion of the receivables sold to the Conduit.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


