FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20051214165545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 8, 2005, the Board of Directors of Peabody Energy Corporation (the "Company") approved the forms of agreement that will be used to document annual stock option and restricted stock awards to directors who are not employees of the Company or its affiliates ("Outside Directors") under the Companys revised director compensation program. The Board of Directors also agreed that the equity component of each Outside Directors compensation will be awarded on the first business day of each calendar year pursuant to the Companys 2001 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan, and will include non-qualified stock options valued at $37,500 (based on Black-Scholes methodology) and restricted shares of the Companys common stock valued at $37,500 (based on the fair market value of the Companys common stock on the date of grant). The following description is a brief summary of the material terms and conditions of the forms of agreement approved by the Board of Directors for annual equity awards to Outside Directors. This summary is not intended to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and the form of Restricted Stock Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this report. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement Stock options pursuant to this form of agreement will be granted at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Companys common stock on the date of grant, will vest in equal annual installments over three years, and will expire ten years after grant. The options will become fully exercisable upon the date the optionee ceases to be a director of the Company ("Termination Date") or upon a change of control (as defined in the Plan), and the vested portion of the options may be exercised by the optionee, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the earliest to occur of: - The tenth anniversary of the date of grant; - The ninet y (90) day anniversary of the optionees Termination Date, if the termination occurs by the Company with cause; or - The five (5) year anniversary of the optionees Termination Date if the termination occurs by reason of (i) termination by the Company without cause, (ii) termination by the optionee for any reason, or (iii) the optionees death or disability. Restricted Stock Agreement Restricted stock awarded to Outside Directors pursuant to this form of agreement will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. In addition, such restricted shares will become fully vested upon (i) a change of control, or (ii) the date the recipient ceases to be a director of the Company, if such termination occurs by reason of the recipients death, disability or termination by the Company without cause. Except as provided above, the recipient will forfeit any unvested restricted shares upon ceasing to be a director of the Company.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 8, 2005, the Board of Directors agreed to terminate the Companys Non-Employee Director Deferred Compensation Plan prior to its planned January 1, 2006 effective date. The Board agreed to terminate the Plan in order to allow additional time to evaluate the impact of proposed regulations issued pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of , 20is made between PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and the undersigned director of the Company (the "Participant").
     
     
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to afford the Participant the opportunity to purchase shares of its $.01 par value common stock ("Stock");
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to carry out the Peabody Energy Corporation Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Board (as hereinafter defined), appointed to administer the Plan, has determined that it would be to the advantage and best interest of the Company and its stockholders to grant the nonqualified stock option (the "Option") provided herein to the Participant as an incentive for increased efforts during the Participant's term as a director of the Company, and has advised the Company thereof and instructed its officers to issue the said Option.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby agree as follows:
1. . The following words and phrases used in the Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in this paragraph 1:
Terms of Award
Other words and phrases used in the Agreement are defined in the Plan or elsewhere in the Agreement. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term or phrase used in the Plan is similarly used in the Agreement.
2. . The Option is a nonqualified stock option and is not intended to constitute an "incentive stock option" as that term is used in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Nonqualified Stock Option
3. .
Date of Exercise
4. . The Option shall not be exercisable after the Company's close of business on the last business day that occurs prior to the Expiration Date. The "Expiration Date" shall be the earliest to occur of:
Expiration
If the Date of Termination occurs due to any reason described in paragraph 4(b) above, the portion of the Option that is not exercisable shall be immediately forfeited. If the Date of Termination occurs due to any reason described in paragraph 4(c) above, the Option shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with paragraph 3 above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant dies within five (5) years following the Date of Termination and the Option has not already expired, the Option shall be exercisable for two (2) years after the Participant's death or until the five (5) year anniversary of the Date of Termination, if longer, but in no event shall the Option be exercisable following the ten (10) year anniversary of the Grant Date.
5. . Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part by filing a written notice with the Secretary of the Company at its corporate headquarters prior to the Company's close of business on the last business day that occurs prior to the Expiration Date. Such notice shall specify the number of shares of Stock which the Participant elects to purchase, and shall be accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price for such shares of Stock indicated by the Participant's election. Payment shall be by (a) cash, (b) check payable to the Company, (c) by delivery of shares of Stock that have been beneficially owned by the Participant for at least six (6) months before the date of exercise ("Mature Stock") or (d) any combination of the foregoing. The Option shall not be exercisable if and to the extent the Company determines that such exercise would violate applicable state or Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange. If the Company makes such a determination, it shall use all reasonable efforts to obtain compliance with such laws, rules and regulations by making any determination hereunder, the Company may rely on the opinion of counsel for the Company.
Method of Option Exercise
6. . All deliveries and distributions under this Agreement are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes, if any. At the election of the Participant, and subject to such rules and limitations as may be established by the Board from time to time, such withholding obligations, if any, may be satisfied through the surrender of Mature Stock.
Withholding
7. . Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph 7, the Option is not transferable other than as designated by the Participant by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and during the Participant's life may only be exercised by the Participant. However, the Participant may transfer the Option to (a) one or more of the Participant's Family Members; (b) one or more trusts for the benefit of the Participant and/or one or more Family Members; or (c) one or more partnerships (general or limited), corporations, limited liability companies or other entities in which the aggregate interests of the Participant and Family Members exceed eighty percent (80%) of all interests (each a "Permitted Transferee"). In the event of the death of the Participant, the Option may be exercised only by the Permitted Transferee, the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate or the person or persons to whom the Participant's rights passed by will or the laws of descent and distribution and only to the extent that the Participant or the Permitted Transferee was entitled to exercise the Option at the date of the Participant's death.
Transferability
8. .
Definitions
9. . This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Company's assets and business.
Successors and Assigns
10. . The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of this Agreement shall be vested in the Board, and the Board shall have all powers with respect to this Agreement as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Agreement by the Board and any decision made by it with respect to the Agreement is final and binding on all persons.
Administration
11. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of this Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company; and this Agreement is subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations promulgated by the Board from time to time pursuant to the Plan.
Plan Governs
12. . Neither the Plan nor this Agreement shall constitute or be evidence of any agreement, express or implied, that the Participant has a right to continue as a director of the Company for any period of time, or at any particular compensation.
No Right to Continue as a Director
13. . Any written notice to the Company required by any of the provisions of this Plan shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company and shall become effective when it is received.
Notice
14. . The Participant shall not have any rights of a stockholder with respect to the shares subject to the Option, until a stock certificate has been duly issued following exercise of the Option as provided herein.
No Rights as a Stockholder
15. . This Agreement may be amended by written agreement of the Participant and the Company, without the consent of any other person.
Amendment
16. . Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration. Arbitrators shall be selected, and arbitration shall be conducted, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
Dispute Resolution
17. . The laws of the State of Delaware shall govern the interpretation, validity and performance of the terms of this Agreement regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Participant has executed this Agreement, and the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the Grant Date.
PARTICIPANT
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION
By: Its:

Exhibit 10.2
THIS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of is made between PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and the undersigned director of the Company (the "Participant").
     
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to award the Participant shares of its $.01 par value common stock ("Stock") with certain restrictions;
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to carry out the Peabody Energy Corporation Long Term Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Board (as hereinafter defined), appointed to administer the Plan, has determined that it would be to the advantage and best interest of the Company and its stockholders to grant shares of Stock with certain restrictions provided herein to the Participant as an incentive for increased efforts during the Participant's term as a director of the Company.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby agree as follows:
1. . The following words and phrases used in the Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in this paragraph 1:
Terms of Award
Other words and phrases used in the Agreement are defined in the Plan or elsewhere in the Agreement. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term or phrase used in the Plan is similarly used in the Agreement.
2. . The Participant shall be entitled to receive any dividends paid with respect to shares of Restricted Stock that become payable during the Restricted Period; provided, however, that no dividends shall be payable with respect to record dates occurring prior to the Grant Date, or with respect to record dates occurring on or after the date, if any, on which the Participant has forfeited the shares of Restricted Stock. The Participant shall be entitled to vote the shares of Restricted Stock during the Restricted Period to the same extent as would have been applicable to the Participant if the Participant was then vested in the shares; provided, however, that the Participant shall not be entitled to vote the shares with respect to record dates for such vesting rights arising prior to the Grant Date, or with respect to record dates occurring on or after the date, if any, on which the Participant has forfeited the shares of Restricted Stock.
Dividends and Voting Rights
3. . Each certificate issued in respect of shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall be held by the Company's Secretary pending removal of the restrictions.
Deposit of Shares of Restricted Stock
4. . If the Participant's Date of Termination does not occur during the Restricted Period with respect to any shares of Restricted Stock, then, at the end of the Restricted Period for such shares, the Participant shall become vested in those shares of Restricted Stock and shall own the shares free of all restrictions otherwise imposed by this Agreement. The Participant shall become vested in the shares of Restricted Stock, and become owner of the shares free of all restrictions otherwise imposed by this Agreement, prior to the end of the Restricted Period as follows:
Transfer and Forfeiture of Shares
Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered until the expiration of the Restricted Period or, if earlier, until the Participant is vested in the shares. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph 4, if the Participant's Date of Termination occurs during the Restricted Period, the Participant shall forfeit the Restricted Stock as of the Participant's Date of Termination.
5. . All deliveries and distributions under this Agreement are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes, if any. At the election of the Participant, and subject to such rules and limitations as may be established by the Board from time to time, such withholding obligations, if any, may be satisfied through the surrender of Mature Stock.
Withholding
6. .
Definitions
7. . This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Company's assets and business.
Successors and Assigns
8. . The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of this Agreement shall be vested in the Board, and the Board shall have all powers with respect to this Agreement as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Agreement by the Board and any decision made by it with respect to the Agreement is final and binding on all persons.
Administration
9. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of this Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained by the Participant from the office of the Secretary of the Company; and this Agreement is subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations promulgated by the Board from time to time pursuant to the Plan.
Plan Governs
10. . Neither the Plan nor this Agreement shall constitute or be evidence of any agreement, express or implied, that the Participant has a right to continue as a director of the Company for any period of time, or at any particular compensation.
No Right to Continue as a Director
11. . Any written notice to the Company required by any of the provisions of this Plan shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company and shall become effective when it is received.
Notice
12. . This Agreement may be amended by written agreement of the Participant and the Company, without the consent of any other person.
Amendment
13. . Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration. Arbitrators shall be selected, and arbitration shall be conducted, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
Dispute Resolution
14. . The laws of the State of Delaware shall govern the interpretation, validity and performance of the terms of this Agreement regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Participant has executed this Agreement, and the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the Grant Date.
PARTICIPANT
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION
By: Its: EVP Human Resources & Administration


