FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20060707163819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document and the exhibits hereto contain certain statements that describe our management's beliefs concerning future business conditions and prospects, growth opportunities and the outlook for our business, including our business after the proposed acquisition transaction, and the coal industry based upon information currently available. Such statements are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Wherever possible, we have identified these forward-looking statements by words such as "anticipates", "believes", "intends", "estimates", "expects", "projects" and similar phrases. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions our management believes are reasonable. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements, including, among other things, the risks and uncertainties disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time.
Because our forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different and any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They speak only as of the date made and can be affected by assumptions we might make, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this document and the exhibits hereto and in our annual and quarterly reports will be important in determining future results. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our expectations or forecasts expressed in such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Actual future results may vary materially. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of our forward-looking or other statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
The securities referred to herein have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered or sold except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
This document and the exhibits do not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Peabody Energy Corporation (the "Company") announced that it has entered into a Merger Implementation Agreement, dated as of July 6, 2006 (the "Merger Implementation Agreement"), with Excel Coal Limited ("Excel"). The Merger Implementation Agreement contemplates that a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Acquisition Sub") will acquire Excel by means of a scheme of arrangement transaction under Australian law (the "Transaction"), pursuant to which the Company will pay A$8.50 per share for all outstanding shares of Excel.
The Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including approval of the Transaction by an Australian court pursuant to the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) of Australia (the "Corporations Act"), approval of the Transaction by Excel shareholders pursuant to the Corporations Act, the absence of a material adverse change with respect to Excel, the execution by the Company or the Acquisition Sub and its financiers of financing documentation in connection with the Transaction on substantially the terms contemplated by a commitment letter, dated July 4, 2006 (the "Commitment Letter"), from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and provided to the Company prior to the date of the Merger Implementation Agreement, the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent to such funding and customary regulatory approvals. Excel and the Company have made customary representations and warranties and covenants in the Merger Implementation Agreement, including, among others, Excel's agreement not to solicit, encourage, initiate, or communicate any intention to do any of the foregoing, in respect of any proposals with third parties to acquire Excel or a substantial part of its business or participate in any negotiations or discussions related to such proposals with third parties, subject to certain limited exceptions to permit the board of directors to comply with its fiduciary duties.
The Company expects to finance the Transaction with a combination of available cash and the proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity securities. Pursuant to the Commitment Letter, the Company has obtained, subject to the terms and conditions therein, commitments for up to US$1.5 billion of senior unsecured loans. The Company does not intend to draw down on this bridge financing unless funds from the contemplated equity or debt offerings are unavailable at the time of closing. The availability of the bridge financing is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions to consummation, including the consummation of the merger substantially in accordance with the Merger Implementation Agreement (with no amendment or modification materially adverse to the lenders without their consent) and the execution of definitive documents contemplated thereby. The debt commitments expire upon the earliest of (i) consummation of the acquisition, (ii) termination of the Merger Implementation Agreement, (iii) consummation of any debt or equity financing the proceeds of which are used to redeem any bridge loans and (iv) December 1, 2006. The Company has agreed to pay Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. certain fees in connection with the Commitment Letter and has agreed to indemnify them, the other lenders and their respective affiliates and representatives against certain liabilities.
Table of Contents
The Merger Implementation Agreement contains certain termination rights and provides that, upon the termination of the Merger Implementation Agreement under specified circumstances, Excel may be required to pay the Company a termination fee.
The foregoing description of the Merger Implementation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Implementation Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Merger Implementation Agreement contains representations and warranties the Company and Excel made to each other as of specific dates. The assertions embodied in those representations and warranties were made solely for purposes of the contract between the Company and Excel and may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by the Company and Excel in connection with negotiating its terms. Moreover, certain representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date because they are subject to a contractual standard of materiality different from those generally applicable to stockholders, or were used for the purpose of allocating risk between the Company and Excel rather than establishing matters as facts. For the foregoing reasons, no person should rely on the representations and warranties as statements of factual information.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On July 5, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the signing of the Merger Implementation Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 2.1
Execution Copy July 6 2006
Merger Implementation Agreement
Peabody Energy Corporation
Excel Coal Limited
 
Contents
Contents 1
 
Contents
Contents 2
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
Merger Implementation Agreement
page 1
 
Operative part
page 2
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 3
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 4
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 5
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 6
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 7
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 8
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 9
 
1     Definitions and interpretation
page 10
 
2     Agreement to proceed with the Transaction
page 11
 
3     Conditions precedent and pre-implementation steps
page 12
 
3     Conditions precedent and pre-implementation steps
page 13
 
4      Transaction steps
page 14
 
5      Implementation
page 15
 
5       Implementation
page 16
 
5       Implementation
page 17
 
6       Representations and undertakings
page 18
 
6       Representations and undertakings
page 19
 
7      Releases
page 20
 
8      Public announcement
page 21
 
11      Payment of costs
page 22
 
12       Conduct of Court proceedings
page 23
 
13      Termination
page 24
 
14     Duty, costs and expenses
page 25
 
16     General
page 26
 
16      General
page 27
 
16      General
page 28
 
Schedule 1
page 29
 
Schedule 2
page 30
 
page 31
 
page 32
 
Schedule 3
Excel details
The only securities of Excel on issue, or options or other instruments that may convert into Excel Shares, are 214,977,360 ordinary shares.
page 33
 
Signing page
Executed as an agreement:
Peabody
Signed for
Peabody Energy Corporation
 
Annexure A  Scheme
page 35
 
page 36
 
page 37
 
page 38
 
page 39
 
page 40
 
page 41
 
page 42
 
page 43
 
Annexure B  Deed Poll
page 44
 
Deed
Deed Poll
Peabody Energy Corporation
 
 
page 46
 
2 Conditions
page 47
 
4 Warranties
page 48
 
6 General
page 49
 
6 General
page 50
 
Signing page
Executed as a deed poll:
Signed sealed and delivered by by
Peabody Energy Corporation
page 51
 
Signing page
Annexure C  Indicative Timetable
page 52

 
Exhibit 99.1
PEABODY ENERGY
News Release
Vic Svec (314) 342-7768
CONTACT
July 5, 2006
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PEABODY ENERGY SIGNS AGREEMENT TO ACQUIRE
MAJOR AUSTRALIAN COAL PRODUCER EXCEL COAL
ST. LOUIS, July 5  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) announced today that it has signed a merger implementation agreement to acquire Excel Coal Limited (ASX: EXL). Under the terms of the agreement, Peabody will pay A$8.50 per share (US$6.21) in cash for all outstanding shares, representing a total acquisition price of approximately US$1.34 billion plus assumed debt of approximately US$190 million.
     The acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings per share and cash flows in 2007, and significantly accretive beyond as new capacity comes online. The transaction represents a 10.2 percent premium over Excel's one-month weighted average share price.
     Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company, and Excel Coal is one of the largest independent coal companies in Australia.
     "This transaction increases Peabody's position in the world's largest coal-exporting nation, and marks another step in our strategy to expand into high-growth global markets," said Peabody President and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "The combined entity creates one of the largest coal companies in Australia with some of the highest-quality products, mines and reserves. Excel is clearly the premier independent coal company in Australia, and we have very high regard for both the people and the assets."
     Nearly one-third of the world's coal exports come from Australia, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration projects that Australian coal exports are expected to increase 55 percent by 2030. Australian metallurgical and thermal coal serves the fast-growing Asian markets that will account for the majority of growth in the global coal industry in coming decades.
 
PEABODY ENERGY TO ACQUIRE EXCEL COAL  PAGE TWO
     The combination of Peabody's Australian operations and Excel's assets creates a major new player in the Australian coal sector, with substantial market diversity, a broad portfolio of metallurgical and thermal coal products, both domestic and seaborne customers, and the capacity to utilize multiple railroads and ports.
     Peabody currently produces 9 million tons of mostly metallurgical coal per year in Queensland. The purchase provides Peabody with extensive growth opportunities from its core operations, along with major metallurgical and thermal coal mines in the latter stages of development by Excel Coal. Excel produced approximately 5.6 million tons of coal in calendar year 2005. Excel operations are expected to produce up to 15 million tons in calendar year 2007, and up to 20 million tons per year in 2008, from coal mines in New South Wales and Queensland. The transaction also provides substantial synergies in the areas of sales and trading, and reserve holdings in Queensland near existing Peabody operations. Excel has more than 500 million tons of metallurgical and thermal coal reserves.
     The acquisition would greatly expand Peabody's existing Queensland base. In the past five years, Peabody purchased the Wilkie Creek thermal coal mine, acquired the Burton and North Goonyella metallurgical coal mines, developed the Eaglefield metallurgical mine, and developed the Baralaba thermal and PCI mine. It also marks a return to New South Wales, where the company has significant experience and success.
     The transaction by way of "Scheme of Arrangement" is subject to various approvals including regulatory, court, Excel shareholders, and other conditions. Excel's directors have agreed not to solicit alternative proposals or competing transactions and not to respond to unsolicited approaches except as required by their fiduciary duties. In addition, Peabody is entitled to a reimbursement fee of A$18 million under certain situations outlined in the merger implementation agreement. Closing is targeted for early in the fourth quarter 2006.
     Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company, with 2005 sales of 240 million tons of coal and $4.6 billion in revenues. Its coal products fuel approximately 10 percent of all U.S. and 3 percent of worldwide electricity.
[One ton equals 0.9 metric tons, or tonnes.]
Peabody Energy will hold a conference call with investors at 10:00 a.m. CDT on Thursday, July 6. Participants should call (888) 428-4480 in the United States or (651) 291-0900 internationally. Slides and a replay of the call will be available on PeabodyEnergy.com.
 
PEABODY ENERGY TO ACQUIRE EXCEL COAL  PAGE THREE
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of July 5, 2006. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the control of the company. These risks include, but are not limited to: growth in coal and power markets; future worldwide economic conditions; economic strength and political stability of countries in which we have operations or serve customers; weather; transportation performance and costs, including demurrage; ability to renew sales contracts; successful implementation of business strategies; regulatory and court decisions; legislation and regulations; negotiation of labor contracts and labor availability and relations; capacity and cost of surety bonds and letters of credit; effects of changes in currency exchange rates; risks associated with customers, including credit risk; risks associated with performance of suppliers; availability and costs of key commodities such as steel, tires, diesel fuel and explosives; performance risks related to high-margin metallurgical coal production; geology and equipment risks inherent to mining; terrorist attacks or threats; replacement of reserves; inflationary trends; effects of interest rates; effects of acquisitions or divestitures; success in integrating new acquisitions; revenues related to synthetic fuel production; revenues and other risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The use of "Peabody," "the company," and "our" relate to Peabody, its subsidiaries and majority-owned affiliates.


