FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20071106172605.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
2
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On October 31, 2007, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody" or the "Company") completed the spin-off of its wholly-owned subsidiary Patriot Coal Corporation ("Patriot"), which was accomplished through a special dividend of all outstanding shares of Patriot to Peabody shareholders. Holders of Peabody common stock of record at the close of business on October 22, 2007 received a dividend of one share of Patriot common stock for every ten shares of Peabody common stock that they owned. As a result of the spin-off, Patriot is no longer owned by Peabody and is now an independent public company. Shares of Patriot common stock began trading on a when-issued basis on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") on October 18, 2007, and began trading "regular way" on the NYSE on November 1, 2007 under the symbol "PCX".
     In connection with the spin-off, the Company has entered into definitive agreements with Patriot that, among other things, set forth the terms and conditions of the spin-off and provide a framework for the Company's relationship with Patriot after the spin-off. A summary of certain important terms of these definitive agreements can be found under Item 1.01 of our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 25, 2007 (the "October 25 Form 8-K") and is incorporated herein by reference. Further information concerning the spin-off and related matters is contained in the Information Statement, dated October 22, 2007, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Patriot's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on October 24, 2007. Peabody is not aware of any material relationship, other than in respect of the spin-off, between Patriot and Peabody, or any of Peabody's affiliates, or any director or officer of Peabody, or any associate of any such director or officer, except as disclosed herein or in the October 25 Form 8-K.
     A copy of the press release relating to our announcement of the completion of the spin-off is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     On October 31, 2007, Irl F. Engelhardt's resignation from the Board of Directors of Peabody became effective and Mr. Engelhardt stepped down form his position as a director. Contemporaneously with his stepping down, Mr. Engelhardt joined the Board of Directors of Patriot and assumed the position of Chairman of Patriot's Board of Directors.
     On October 31, 2007, Richard M. Whiting elected to resign from his position as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Peabody in connection with the spin-off of Patriot from Peabody. Mr. Whiting assumed the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of Patriot.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Peabody (the "Pro Forma Financial Statements") reflecting the spin-off of Patriot from Peabody described under Item 2.01 above are attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference. The Pro Forma Financial Statements include the following information:
 
3
 
4
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 6, 2007
 
5

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 1, 2007
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PEABODY ENERGY COMPLETES SPIN-OFF
OF PATRIOT COAL CORPORATION
ST. LOUIS, Nov. 1  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today announced that it has completed the spin-off of coal assets and operations in West Virginia and Kentucky to BTU shareholders. The spin-off was accomplished on Oct. 31, 2007, through a special dividend of all outstanding shares of Patriot Coal Corporation, at a ratio of one share of Patriot Coal stock for every 10 shares of Peabody held. Patriot trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol PCX and has 26.6 million shares outstanding.
     "Completing this spin-off was a key element in transforming our business portfolio," said Peabody Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "Peabody and Patriot will both benefit by a distinct business focus and growth opportunities to build shareholder value. Peabody remains focused on high-margin, high-growth markets by expanding globally and building on our leading U.S. position in the Powder River Basin, Colorado and the Midwest."
     Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company. Its coal products fuel approximately 10 percent of all U.S. electricity generation and more than 2 percent of worldwide electricity.
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may be beyond our control and may cause our actual future results to differ materially from expectations. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect our results include, but are not limited to: the outcome of our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our West Virginia and Kentucky subsidiaries; the outcome of commercial negotiations involving sales contracts or other transactions; customer performance and credit risk; supplier performance, and the availability and cost of key equipment and commodities; availability and costs of transportation; geologic, equipment and operational risks associated with mining; our ability to replace coal reserves; labor availability and relations; the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; legislative and regulatory developments; the outcome of pending or future litigation; coal and power market conditions; weather patterns affecting energy demand; availability and costs of competing energy resources; worldwide economic and political conditions; global currency exchange and interest rate fluctuation; wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; political risks, including expropriation; and other risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 
Exhibit 99.2
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is based on the historical financial statements of Peabody Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries (Peabody), including certain pro forma adjustments, and has been prepared to illustrate the pro forma effect of the spin-off of Patriot Coal Corporation (Patriot). The spin-off of Patriot was completed on October 31, 2007. Prior to the spin-off, Patriot was a component of our Eastern U.S. Mining Operations business segment, with operations and coal reserves in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Patriot operations are engaged in the mining, preparation and sale of steam coal, sold primarily to electric utilities, as well as the mining of metallurgical coal.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 assume that the spin-off of Patriot occurred as of the beginning of the periods presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2007 is presented as if the spin-off had occurred as of that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information has been prepared based upon available information and certain assumptions and estimates that Peabody believes are reasonable. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations that might have occurred had the spin-off occurred as of the dates stated above. The pro forma adjustments are described in the notes hereto.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and notes thereto and the related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) included in Peabody's Annual Report an Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as amended by the Form 10-K/A filed September 10, 2007, and unaudited interim financial statements and related MD&A included in the respective March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2007
 
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SEPTEMBER 30, 2007
 
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006
 
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005
 
PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004
 


