FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20081016082512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 16, 2008, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") issued a press release setting forth Peabody's third quarter 2008 financial results and updating guidance on Peabody's full year 2008 forecasted results. A copy of Peabody's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Oct. 16, 2008
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ST. LOUIS, Oct. 16  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today reported record third quarter revenues of $1.91 billion on 66.0 million tons sold. EBITDA grew 190 percent to $609.8 million, driving income from continuing operations to a new high of $377.1 million with earnings per share of $1.38.
          "Peabody had an outstanding quarter, delivering record results that reflect the benefits of our recent investments and expanding global platform," said Peabody Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "We continue to differentiate ourselves with a very strong financial and operating performance, rising cash flows, major contract backlog and rapidly growing international contributions. In the face of current economic conditions, we are pleased to be raising our outlook."
RESULTS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
          Third quarter volumes reached 66.0 million tons, 6 percent above year-ago levels. Higher volumes combined with improved pricing in all regions led to record revenues of $1.91 billion, a $707.2 million increase over the prior year.
          Peabody's Australian coal shipments grew 21 percent over the prior year quarter and 15 percent year to date. Higher contracted prices led to significantly improved realized revenues per ton: 114 percent above the year-ago quarter and 66 percent year to date. U.S. operations also delivered improved performance over last year, reflecting a 15 percent increase in realized prices and contributions from the new El Segundo Mine in the Southwest.
1
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 2
          EBITDA for the quarter was $609.8 million versus $210.0 million in the prior year, a 190 percent improvement. EBITDA from mining operations nearly tripled, and Trading and Brokerage increased 168 percent. EBITDA margins grew to a record 32 percent of revenues. Operating profit rose 324 percent to $490.2 million.
          Third quarter income from continuing operations was a record $377.1 million with earnings of $1.38 per share. This compares with $55.0 million and $0.20 per share in the comparable prior-year quarter. During the quarter, operating cash flows reached a new high of $462.0 million, and the company repaid more than $100 million in debt.
          "We are seeing the first full quarter of benefits from our multi-year capital investment program," said Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael C. Crews. "We have improved volumes, stablized costs, expanded margins and generated strong cash flows that enabled us to repay debt and repurchase shares during the quarter."
          Also in the quarter, Standard & Poor's upgraded Peabody's corporate credit rating to BB+' on the basis of strengthened credit measures due to the company's financial performance and favorable outlook.
          Through nine months, the company also set records on all financial measures. Sales volumes rose 7 percent to 187.0 million tons; revenues increased 40 percent to $4.71 billion; EBITDA rose 86 percent to $1.33 billion; operating profit improved 128 percent to $1.01 billion; earnings per share from continuing operations increased 188 percent to $2.53; and operating cash flow climbed 48 percent to $783.0 million.
          Peabody operations recorded a 27 percent safety improvement year to date and are on track for the safest year ever. Also, Peabody's Miller Creek Mine was honored for reclamation excellence, receiving the U.S. Department of the Interior's National Award of Excellence in Surface Mining for innovative techniques to restore prime farmland and wildlife habitat in Indiana.
GLOBAL COAL MARKETS AND PEABODY'S POSITION
          "While there is uncertainty in today's economy, any easing of demand growth is likely to be offset by diminished global coal supply," said Peabody President and Chief Commercial Officer Richard A. Navarre. "Supply challenges around the world and lack of capital to respond to market shortages will continue to drive a tight global supply-demand balance for coal. In addition, we believe that the long-term coal demand profile is very strong and will continue to be led by emerging economies."
2
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 3
          Global coal use continues to increase to satisfy steel demand and serve a growing number of coal-fueled generating plants.
          International steel consumption is projected to be 3 percent higher than last year, representing approximately 25 million tons of incremental annualized metallurgical coal demand. Global thermal coal demand is growing as nations attempt to replenish stockpiles and fuel new coal plants. Physical coal prices are above published coal prices in most markets, as an exodus of financial participants has created a temporary overhang on financial coal products.
          Coal demand growth and tight global supplies are expected to continue, given a number of factors:
3
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 4
          These conditions have led to significant global price increases year over year. Physical coal prices have remained near the strong contract levels set in April for both met and thermal coal products. Long-term Powder River Basin prices remain much higher than current spot prices and are approximately double the spot prices of early 2007.
          During the quarter, Peabody priced premium Powder River Basin products at levels 49 percent above realized 2007 pricing. Pricing for Illinois Basin coal has doubled since the start of the year, due to its proximity to Eastern U.S. and export markets. Peabody is the number-one producer in both the Powder River Basin and Illinois Basin.
          Peabody is now largely contracted for 2009. The company has 10 to 20 million tons of U.S. production unpriced for 2009 and 75 to 85 million tons for 2010. Peabody has 6 to 7 million tons of Australian-based metallurgical coal available to be priced for the last three quarters of 2009 and 10 to 11 million tons for 2010. Unpriced Australian thermal coal volumes include 6 to 7 million tons for the last three quarters of 2009 and 12 to 13 million tons for 2010.
APPROACH AND OUTLOOK
          The company has a growing earnings profile, strong balance sheet, solid liquidity and access to credit and low sustaining capital needs. "Peabody has never been better positioned to capitalize on market opportunities," said Boyce. "We are taking prudent steps to navigate through the near-term economic conditions, while positioning for long-term growth in what remains an energy-short world."
          Peabody will continue to exercise tight capital discipline and a balanced capital structure to best utilize rising cash flows and capitalize on long-term opportunities. Peabody continues to
4
 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 5
advance long-term projects that expand access to high-growth markets. For instance, the company is joining with Chinese partners to explore development of a large surface mine and coal conversion facility. And construction of the new NCIG terminal at Newcastle is on time and on budget, with startup targeted for 2010. As the second largest sponsor of the export facility, Peabody will receive nearly 6 million tons of dedicated allocation.
          Peabody is raising its targets for the full year. 2008 EBITDA is targeted at $1.75 to $1.85 billion, as much as 92 percent higher than 2007. 2008 earnings per share from continuing operations is targeted at $3.00 to $3.25, an increase of as much as 103 percent from 2007. Final 2008 results will be contingent on a number of factors, including the level of export shipments in the fourth quarter.
          Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company. Its coal products fuel approximately 10 percent of all U.S. electricity generation and 2 percent of worldwide electricity.
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of Oct. 16, 2008. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company's control. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect the company's results include, but are not limited to: the outcome of commercial negotiations involving sales contracts or other transactions; credit and performance risk associated with customers, suppliers, trading and financial counterparties; the availability, timing of delivery and cost of key equipment and commodities; transportation availability, performance and costs including demurrage; geologic, equipment and operational risks associated with mining; our ability to replace coal reserves; worldwide economic and political conditions; labor availability and relations; the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; legislative and regulatory developments, including mercury and carbon dioxide-related limitations; the outcome of pending or future litigation; coal and power market conditions; impact of weather on demand, production and transportation; availability and costs of competing energy resources; risks associated with our Btu Conversion initiatives; global currency exchange and interest rate fluctuation; liquidity and access to capital; wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; political risks, including expropriation; and other risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
This information includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations. We have included reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in this release. EBITDA (also called Adjusted EBITDA) is defined as income from continuing operations before deducting net interest expense, income taxes, minority interests, asset retirement obligation expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization. EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for operating income, net income and cash flow as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management uses EBITDA as a key measure of operating performance and also believes it is a useful indicator of its ability to meet debt service and capital expenditure requirements.
5
 
Condensed Income Statements (Unaudited) For the Quarters Ended September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008, and September 30, 2007 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 and 2007
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
6
 
Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited) For the Quarters Ended September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008, and September 30, 2007 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 and 2007
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
          (Dollars in Millions)
Condensed Balance Sheets September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007
 
     
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
8
 
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations (Unaudited) For the Quarters Ended September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008, and September 30, 2007 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2008 and 2007
(Dollars in Millions)
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations  2008 Targets (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
9


