FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20080916113326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On September 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of Peabody Energy Corporation (the "Company") approved amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws (as amended, the "By-Laws"), which changes are effective immediately. The principal changes to the By-Laws resulting from the amendments are as follows:
     Section 1.2 of the By-Laws has been amended to (i) explicitly provide that the By-Laws are the exclusive means for a stockholder to submit nominations or other business, other than proposals governed by Rule 14a-8 of the federal proxy rules (which provides its own procedural requirements), (ii) expand the required disclosure regarding the stockholders making such nominations or proposals to include, among other things, all ownership interests, hedges, economic incentives (including synthetic or temporary stock ownership) and rights to vote any shares of any security of the Company, and (iii) expand the required disclosure with respect to nominees for director by requiring a stockholder nominating a person for election to include in the advance notice certain information with respect to the nominee (including information regarding compensation arrangements between the stockholder and his affiliates, on the one hand and the nominee, on the other hand), as well as the questionnaire, representation and agreement required by new Section 1.8 of the By-Laws.
     Sections 1.2 and 1.3 of the By-Laws have also been amended to provide that no adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting, respectively, or the announcement thereof, will commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as required by the By-Laws.
     Section 1.4 of the By-Laws has been amended to expressly empower the Board of Directors to postpone previously called meetings of stockholders or to cancel special meetings of stockholders, and Section 1.5 of the By-Laws has been amended to provide that the chairman of a meeting of stockholders or a majority of the outstanding capital stock represented at a meeting may adjourn the meeting, whether or not there is a quorum, and that no notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law.
     Section 1.6 of the By-Laws has been amended to specify that the determination of whether an election is contested will be made by the Secretary (which will be determinative as to timeliness of a notice of nomination but not otherwise as to its validity), and that once an election is determined to be contested, directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, unless notices of nomination have been withdrawn prior to the Company's mailing of its initial proxy statement in connection with the election such that the number of candidates for election no longer exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
     A new Section 1.8 has been added to the By-Laws to require that a nominee for election or reelection as a director submit a signed questionnaire with respect to his or her background and qualifications, as well as a representation and agreement that the nominee is not a party to any undisclosed voting commitment, any voting commitment that that could interfere with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, or any arrangement or understanding with any person other than the Company with respect to any direct or indirect compensation or indemnification in connection with service as a director, and that the nominee, if elected, will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance and other policies and guidelines of the Company.
     A new Section 1.9 has been added to the By-Laws to provide for the appointment of one or more inspectors of election in connection with meetings of stockholders, to prescribe the duties of the inspectors, and to provide that the chairman of the meeting will open and close the polls for each matter upon which stockholders will vote.
     In addition, Section 1.3 of the By-Laws with respect to special meetings of stockholders and Article IV of the By-Laws with respect to indemnification were amended to conform to the special meeting and indemnification provisions, respectively, of the Company's Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
     The preceding description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws, as amended, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
     Section 1.1. . Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place either within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may determine.
Place of Meeting
     Section 1.2. . (A) Annual meetings of stockholders shall be held, at a date, time and place fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of meeting, to elect a Board of Directors and to transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
Annual Meetings
     (B) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (1) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Article 1, Section 4 of these By-Laws, (2) by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or (3) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this Section 2 and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and at the time of the meeting; clause (3) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14-a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
     (C) Without qualification, for nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of paragraph (B) of these By-Laws, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and, in the case of business other than nominations, such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than twenty (20) days, or delayed by more than seventy (70) days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual
 
meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice (whether given pursuant to this paragraph (C) or Article 1, Section 1.3(B) of these By-Laws) must (1) set forth as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director (a) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected and (b) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; provided that the Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee; (2) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and (b) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; (3) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (a) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (b) (i) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (ii) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative
 
Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (iii) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation, (iv) any short interest in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of these By-Laws a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (v) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (vi) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (vii) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (c) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (4) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Article I, Section 1.8 of these By-Laws.
     (D) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (C) of these By-Laws to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least eighty (80) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
     Section 1.3. . (A) Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chief
Special Meetings
 
Executive Officer of the Corporation or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by the Board of Directors.
     (B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Article I, Section 1.4 of these By-Laws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in Article 1, Section 1.2(C) of these By-Laws and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of stockholders if the stockholder's notice as required by paragraph (C) of Section 2 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the ninetieth (90) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the seventieth (70) day prior to such special meeting or the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
th
th
th
     Section 1.4. . Except as otherwise provided by law, at least ten (10) and not more than sixty (60) days before each meeting of stockholders, written notice of the time, date and place of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given to each stockholder. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on May 9, 2008 (the "Charter") otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Notice
     Section 1.5. . At any meeting of stockholders, the holders of record, present in person or by proxy, of a majority of the Corporation's issued and outstanding capital stock shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law. The Chairman of the meeting or a majority of the outstanding capital stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law.
Quorum
     Section 1.6. . (A) Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, (a) all matters submitted to a meeting of stockholders, other than the election of
Voting
 
directors, shall be decided by vote of the holders of record of a majority of the shares of the Corporation's issued and outstanding capital stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter, and (b) except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B) of this Section 1.6 in the case of a contested election (as defined below), each director to be elected by stockholders shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 1.6, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" exceeds 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that director's election. Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority or votes against in each case as applicable and shall exclude abstentions with respect to that director's election.
     (B) In the event of a contested election of directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy and voting for nominees in the election of directors at any meeting of stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 1.6, a contested election shall mean any election of directors in which the number of candidates for election as directors exceeds the number of directors to be elected, with the determination thereof being made by the Secretary of the Corporation (a) as of the close of the applicable notice of nomination period set forth in Article I, Section 1.2(C) of these By-Laws based on whether one or more notice(s) of nomination were timely filed in accordance with said Article I, Section 1.2(C) or (b) if later, reasonably promptly following the determination by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction that one or more notice(s) of nomination were timely filed in accordance with said Article I, Section 1.2(C); provided that the determination that an election is a "contested election" by the Secretary of the Corporation pursuant to clause (a) or (b) shall be determinative only as to the timeliness of a notice of nomination and not otherwise as to its validity. If, prior to the time the Corporation mails its initial proxy statement in connection with such election of directors, one or more notices of nomination are withdrawn (or declared invalid or untimely by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction) such that the number of candidates for election as director no longer exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the election shall not be considered a contested election, but in all other cases, once an election is determined to be a contested election, directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast .
     Section 1.7. . (A) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-Laws shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-Laws. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Charter or these By-Laws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these By-Laws, to declare that such defective nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.
General
 
     (B) For purposes of these By-Laws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or disclosure in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
     (C) For purposes of this By-Law, no adjournment nor notice of adjournment of any meeting shall be deemed to constitute a new notice of such meeting for purposes of this Article, and in order for any notification required to be delivered by a stockholder pursuant to this Article to be timely, such notification must be delivered within the periods set forth above with respect to the originally scheduled meeting. Subject to applicable law, the Board of Directors may elect to postpone any previously scheduled meeting of stockholders.
     (D) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in these By-Laws. Nothing in these By-Laws shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
     Section 1.8. . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section Article I, Section 1.2 of these By-Laws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
 
     Section 1.9. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
     The Chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
     Section 2.1. . The number of Directors that shall constitute the Board of Directors shall be not less than three nor more than 15. Within the limits specified in the Charter, the number of Directors shall be determined by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders. The Directors shall be elected by the stockholders at their annual meeting in the manner set forth in the Charter. Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors may be filled in the manner set forth in the Charter. Directors may be removed only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of at least 75 percent in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class.
Number, Election and Removal of Directors
     Section 2.2. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as may from time to time be fixed by the Board of Directors or as may be specified in a notice of meeting. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman or President and shall be called by the President or Secretary if directed by a majority of the Directors. Telegraphic or written notice of each special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be sent to each Director not less than two days before such meeting. A meeting of the Board of Directors may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of the stockholders. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
Meetings
     Section 2.3. . One-third of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from
Quorum
 
time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such a quorum is present. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Charter, these By-Laws or any contract or agreement to which the Corporation is a party, the act of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
     Section 2.4. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, designate one or more committees, including without limitation an Executive Committee, to have and exercise such power and authority as the Board of Directors shall specify. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another Director to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Committees of Directors
     Section 3.1. . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other additional officers with such titles (including, without limitation, a Chief Operating Officer and a Chief Financial Officer) as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine, all of whom shall be elected by and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Subject to applicable law, an officer may hold more than one office, if so elected by the Board of Directors. Such officers shall have the usual powers and shall perform all the usual duties incident to their respective offices. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors. All officers shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. The Board of Directors may from time to time elect, or the Chief Executive Officer or President may appoint, such other officers (including one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer or President, as the case may be. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board, need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
General
     Section 3.2. . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as
Election and Term of Office
 
convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign, but any officer may be removed from office at any time as provided in Section 3.3.
     Section 3.3. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors may be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. Any officer or agent appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President may be removed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President, as the case may be, whenever, in such officer's judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby. Such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person so removed; provided that no elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
     Section 3.4. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Vacancies
     To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law: (A) the Corporation shall indemnify any person (and such person's heirs, executors or administrators) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (brought in the right of the Corporation or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether formal or informal, including appeals, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or other enterprise, for and against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person or such heirs, executors or administrators in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify a person described in such sentence in connection with any action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such person only if the commencement of such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) by such person was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The Corporation may indemnify any person (and such person's heirs,
 
executors or administrators) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (brought in the right of the Corporation or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether formal or informal, including appeals, by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or other enterprise, for and against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person or such heirs, executors or administrators in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals.
     (B) The Corporation shall promptly pay expenses incurred by any person described in the first sentence of paragraph (A) of this By-Law in defending any action, suit or proceeding in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals, upon presentation of appropriate documentation.
     (C) The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person described in paragraph (A) of this By-Law against any liability asserted against such person, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this By-Law or otherwise.
     (D) The provisions of this By-Law shall be applicable to all actions, claims, suits or proceedings made or commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions to act occurring before or after its adoption. The provisions of this By-Law shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director or officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this By-Law and the relevant provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware and other applicable law, if any, are in effect, and any repeal or modification hereof shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts or any action, suit or proceeding then or theretofore existing, or any action, suit or proceeding thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part on any such state of facts. If any provision of this By-Law shall be found to be invalid or limited in application by reason of any law or regulation, it shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions hereof. The rights of indemnification provided in this By-Law shall neither be exclusive of, nor be deemed in limitation of, any rights to which an officer, director, employee or agent may otherwise be entitled or permitted by contract, the Charter, vote of stockholders or directors or otherwise, or as a matter of law, both as to actions in such person's official capacity and actions in any other capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of any person whom the Corporation is obligated to indemnify pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph (A) of this By-Law shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law.
     (E) For purposes of this By-Law, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to
 
"serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries.
     (F) A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any amendment, modification or repeal of the foregoing sentence shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such amendment, modification or repeal.
     Section 5.1. . Whenever any statute, the Charter or these By-Laws require notice to be given to any Director or stockholder, such notice may be given in writing by mail, addressed to such Director or stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Such notice shall be deemed to have been given when it is deposited in the United States mail. Notice to Directors may also be given by telegram.
Notices
     Section 5.2. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
[As amended through September 15, 2008]


