FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20091020082151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 20, 2009, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") issued a press release setting forth Peabody's third quarter 2009 financial results and updated guidance on Peabody's 2009 forecasted results. A copy of Peabody's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Oct. 20, 2009
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ST. LOUIS, Oct. 20  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today reported third quarter revenues of $1.67 billion on sales of 63.5 million tons, leading to EBITDA totaling $341.1 million. Income from continuing operations, including the non-cash expense from currency-driven remeasurement of foreign income taxes, was $113.2 million with related earnings per share of $0.41. Adjusted income from continuing operations, excluding the tax remeasurement expense, totaled $135.5 million with adjusted earnings per share of $0.49.
     "Peabody's results this quarter spotlight the tremendous strength and differentiation of our platform," said Peabody Energy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "In these challenging markets and economic times, Peabody expanded U.S. margins and shipped record metallurgical coal volumes. To enhance our growth, we intend to double our exports of Australian metallurgical and thermal coal over the next five years to serve the fast-growing Asian markets."
RESULTS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
     Third quarter 2009 sales volumes totaled 63.5 million tons, compared with 65.6 million tons in the prior year period. U.S. sales reflect planned Powder River Basin (PRB) reductions. Australia sales of 6.5 million tons were 30 percent above the second quarter due to higher seaborne thermal volumes and record metallurgical coal shipments. Australian metallurgical coal exports were 2.7 million tons, nearly triple the pace of the first half of 2009.
     Third quarter revenues totaled $1.67 billion compared with $1.34 billion for the second quarter of 2009 and $1.89 billion in the year-ago quarter. U.S. revenues per ton increased 11
1
 
percent over the third quarter of last year due to higher realized prices in both the Midwestern and Western regions. Peabody's third quarter realized revenues for Australia averaged $82 per ton, including $125 per ton for seaborne metallurgical coal and $72 per ton for seaborne thermal coal. Compared with the second quarter of 2009, Australian realized prices increased 33 percent due to a larger mix of seaborne metallurgical coal. Third quarter 2009's Australian revenues per ton were below year-ago levels due to lower annual pricing for seaborne coal contracts that began April 1.
     EBITDA totaled $341.1 million for the quarter and $992.7 million year to date. Prior year results included EBITDA of $613.8 million for the quarter and $1.34 billion year to date, reflecting record prices for seaborne metallurgical and thermal coal products signed in 2008.
     Tax expense for the quarter was $57 million, including the impact of a $22.3 million increase from the remeasurement of foreign tax liabilities due to an 8.5 percent increase in the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. For the second quarter, tax expense was $78.4 million, reflecting a $47.7 million impact from the remeasurement of foreign tax liabilities.
     Including the remeasurement of foreign income taxes, third quarter 2009 income from continuing operations totaled $113.2 million, or $0.41 per share, with net income of $106.8 million, or $0.40 per share. Excluding the remeasurement, adjusted income from continuing operations totaled $135.5 million with adjusted earnings per share of $0.49.
     "Peabody's cost containment programs are delivering results, and we are exercising tight capital discipline and reducing inventories," said Peabody Energy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael C. Crews. "Our record $429 million in quarterly operating cash flows further strengthened the balance sheet, raising cash to nearly $800 million and expanding our liquidity to $2.3 billion."
GLOBAL COAL MARKETS AND PEABODY'S POSITION
     The Pacific markets continue to strengthen, led by China's and India's demand for seaborne met and thermal coals that has driven spot prices above the April 1 benchmarks. The forward curves also suggest strong price appreciation over the next several years.
     "Peabody is very well positioned with access to the fastest-growing markets globally, where we see shortages of metallurgical coal and growing strength in the Pacific thermal markets," said Peabody President and Chief Commercial Officer Richard A. Navarre. "We have recently opened a new Asian trading hub in Singapore, established a new business center in Indonesia, and plan to further expand our international investments."
     Global economies are improving with 2009 GDP expectations revised upward and 2010 economic forecasts of 3 percent expansion. Countries in the Pacific lead those in the West, due in part to China's rapid stimulus package implementation.
2
 
     To date, Peabody has committed nearly 3.3 million tons of coal for China deliveries in 2009, including more than 1.7 million tons from its Australia operations.
     Given the strong demand profiles of the Pacific, Peabody established a new Southeast Asian trading hub in Singapore during the quarter. Singapore provides a central location for the company's expanding trading and brokerage platform with prime access to the world's fastest-growing coal markets. The company also recently opened a representative office in Jakarta, Indonesia, the world's largest exporter of thermal coal. In addition, Peabody continues to advance several coal development projects in China and Mongolia.
     Peabody's 2009 Australia coal sales are expected to be 21 to 23 million tons, including 6.0 to 6.5 million tons of metallurgical coal and 9.5 to 10.0 million tons of thermal export coal. For 2010, the company has 5.5 to 7 million tons of Australia metallurgical coal unpriced and 7.5 to 8 million tons of seaborne thermal coal unpriced, primarily for deliveries over the last three quarters of 2010. More than 85 percent of the company's expected 2011 Australian thermal and metallurgical export coal volumes remain unpriced.
3
 
     U.S. coal markets continue to await an economic and industrial recovery in electricity generation. U.S. coal generation has declined 10 percent year to date due to the recession and unseasonably cool summer weather. Temporarily low natural gas prices and lower U.S. coal exports to Europe have further reduced demand, particularly from the Eastern U.S. region. As of Sept. 30, U.S. customer coal inventories were approximately 190 million tons.
     Peabody has maintained a heavily contracted position in the United States. 2010 planned production is now essentially committed and priced. The company priced minimal volumes for 2010 in the third quarter, most of which related to scheduled price reopeners.
PROJECT UPDATE
     The company continues to exercise tight capital discipline and is lowering its 2009 capital expenditure range to $325 to $375 million. Capital investments include the Bear Run Mine under development in Indiana. Upon completion, the 8 million ton-per-year Bear Run Mine will be the largest surface mine east of the Mississippi River. Its development is supported by long-term, baseload customer contracts representing billions of dollars in long-term revenues.
     Peabody also is advancing projects that could double Australian export volumes in five years. Capacity in 2014 could grow to 12 to 15 million tons per year of seaborne metallurgical coal and 15 to 17 million tons per year of export thermal coal. Principal projects include:
     Given Peabody's investment in the New South Wales NCIG terminal and Dalrymple Bay export capability obtained in a prior acquisition, Peabody has secured sufficient capacity to accommodate the multi-year expansion of its Australian coal platform.
OUTLOOK
     Given the solid third quarter results, Peabody is raising its financial targets for 2009, including EBITDA of $1.2 to $1.3 billion. Earnings per share from continuing operations is targeted at $1.34 to $1.54 including the tax remeasurement to date, or $1.60 to $1.80 excluding
4
 
the tax remeasurement effects. Given the high rate of deliveries to satisfy U.S. customer commitments, the company is targeting 2009 sales of approximately 190 million tons in the United States and 21 to 23 million tons in Australia. Total company sales are expected to be 235 to 245 million tons, including Trading and Brokerage contributions. The company's 2009 results are subject to a number of factors including actual deliveries compared with commitments.
     "Our cost control, commercial management and high-growth market focus has validated our near- and long-term strategies and positioned us to grow our Australian volumes in 2010 and beyond, while driving margin enhancement in the United States," said Boyce.
     For 2010, growing demand in the Pacific is driving higher Australia sales projections of 24 to 27 million tons, or 15 percent above 2009's targets, with minimal capital required. In the United States, Peabody is targeting 2010 volumes of 185 to 195 million tons, in line with 2009's expectations and 5 to 15 million tons lower than 2008. Peabody's 2010 PRB volumes are expected to decline up to another 5 million tons from 2009's estimated 138 million tons, and approximately 20 to 25 million tons below peak operating levels in late 2008.
     Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company, with 2008 sales of 255 million tons and $6.6 billion in revenues. Its coal products fuel 10 percent of all U.S. electricity generation and 2 percent of worldwide electricity.
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of Oct. 20, 2009. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company's control. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect the company's results include, but are not limited to: the duration and severity of the global economic downturn and disruptions in the financial markets; ability to renew sales contracts; reductions and/or deferrals of purchases by major customers; credit and performance risks associated with customers, suppliers, trading and banks and other financial counterparties; transportation availability, performance and costs; availability, timing of delivery and costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires; geologic, equipment and operational risks inherent to mining; impact of weather on demand, production and transportation; replacement of coal reserves; price volatility and demand, particularly in higher-margin products and in our trading and brokerage businesses; performance of contractors, third-party coal suppliers or major suppliers of mining equipment or supplies; negotiation of labor contracts, employee relations and workforce availability; availability and costs of credit, surety bonds, letters of credit, and insurance; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations and funding requirements; availability and access to capital markets on reasonable terms to fund growth and acquisitions; legislative and regulatory developments, including mercury and carbon dioxide-related limitations; the outcome of pending or future litigation; demand for coal in the United States and international power generation and steel production markets; availability and costs of competing energy resources; risks associated with our Btu Conversion or generation development initiatives; global currency exchange and interest rate fluctuation; wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; political risks, including expropriation; and other risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
This information includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations. We have included reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in this release.
EBITDA (also called Adjusted EBITDA) is defined as income from continuing operations before deducting net interest expense, income taxes, asset retirement obligation expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization. EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for operating income, net income and cash flow as determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Management uses
5
 
EBITDA as a key measure of operating performance and also believes it is a useful indicator of its ability to meet debt service and capital expenditure requirements.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EPS are defined as income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of the remeasurement of foreign income tax accounts. Management has included these measures because, in management's opinion, excluding such impact is a better indicator of the company's ongoing effective tax rate and earnings per share, and is therefore more useful in comparing the company's results with prior and future periods.
6
 
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
7
 
 
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
8
 
(Dollars in Millions)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
9
 
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes (Unaudited) For the Quarters Ended Sept. 30, 2009, June 30, 2009 and Sept. 30, 2008 and Nine Months Ended Sept. 30, 2009 and 2008
(Dollars in Millions)
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes  2009 Targets (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
10


