FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20100415074601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 15, 2010, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") submitted an improved and definitive proposal to acquire a controlling interest in Macarthur Coal Limited (ASX: MCC). Under Peabodys proposal, Macarthur shareholders would receive a cash price of A$16.00 per share valuing Macarthur at A$4.1 billion (US$3.8 billion). The proposal has the approval of Peabody's Board of Directors and would be implemented by way of a court-ordered scheme of arrangement on customary terms, including receipt of FIRB and other regulatory approvals. Under the proposal, Peabody is prepared to offer cash to all Macarthur shareholders and remains willing to provide any, or all, of Macarthurs three major shareholders with the opportunity to retain their economic interest in Macarthur should they so desire. Peabodys proposal is subject to a limited, confirmatory due diligence period of up to five days, primarily focused on the terms of material contracts, including potential change in control provisions . Peabodys proposal will lapse if Macarthur proceeds with the shareholder vote scheduled for April 19, 2010, or if the Gloucester/Noble Group transactions proceed. A copy of Peabodys press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Peabody press release dated April 15, 2010.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

CONTACT:
Vic Svec
+1 (314) 342-7768
April 15, 2010
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PEABODY ENERGY MAKES CASH PROPOSAL OF
A$16.00 PER SHARE FOR MACARTHUR COAL
ST. LOUIS, April 15  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today submitted an improved and definitive proposal to acquire a controlling interest in Macarthur Coal Limited (ASX: MCC). Under Peabody's proposal, which has the approval of Peabody's Board of Directors, Macarthur shareholders would receive a cash price of A$16.00 per share valuing Macarthur at A$4.1 billion (US$3.8 billion).
Peabody's proposal is clearly superior to Macarthur's proposed takeover offer for Gloucester Coal and associated transactions with Noble and other proposals that Macarthur has disclosed. The A$16.00 per share offer delivers a material premium and represents:
Under the proposal, Peabody is prepared to offer cash to all Macarthur shareholders and remains willing to provide any, or all, of Macarthur's three major shareholders with the opportunity to retain their economic interest in Macarthur should they so desire. Peabody believes this optionality enhances the likelihood of securing shareholder approval under a customary scheme of arrangement.
Peabody's proposal is subject only to a limited, confirmatory due diligence period of up to five days, primarily focused on the terms of material contracts, including potential change in control provisions. With cooperation from Macarthur's management team, Peabody's proposal can be offered to Macarthur's shareholders for consideration in a very short time period.
Peabody's proposal will lapse if Macarthur proceeds with the shareholder vote scheduled for April 19, 2010, or if the Gloucester/Noble Group transactions proceed.
Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company, with 2009 sales of 244 million tons and $6 billion in revenues. Its coal products fuel 10 percent of all U.S. electricity generation and 2 percent of worldwide electricity.
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company's control. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect results include those described in this press release as well as risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


