FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20110419080853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 19, 2011, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") issued a press release setting forth Peabodys first quarter 2011 financial results and providing guidance on Peabodys second quarter and full year 2011 forecasted results. A copy of Peabodys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit No: 99.1 Description of Exhibit: Press Release of Peabody Energy Corporation dated April 19, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

PEABODY ENERGY
News Release
CONTACT: Vic Svec (314) 342-7768
April 19, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ST. LOUIS, April 19  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today reported first quarter 2011 EBITDA of $416.2 million, a 17 percent increase from the prior year. Revenues rose 15 percent to $1.74 billion. Income from continuing operations rose 31 percent to $179.6 million, with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.65. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 29 percent to $0.67.
"Peabody delivered significant increases in revenues, operating profit, EBITDA and net income in the first quarter," said Peabody Energy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "Peabody is advancing multiple growth initiatives to serve the high-growth Asian markets. During the quarter, we made significant progress on a number of Australian mine expansions, entered into Chinese development agreements, expanded Indonesian supply sources, and announced a major throughput agreement for a proposed Western U.S. export facility."
RESULTS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Revenues for the quarter rose by $229 million to $1.74 billion, driven by increased Australia pricing and higher U.S. volumes. Revenues per ton in Australia rose 43 percent on significantly higher prices for met and seaborne thermal shipments. Consolidated sales totaled 61.2 million tons compared with 58.3 million tons in the prior year. U.S. shipments rose 9 percent to 51.4 million tons on higher demand and continued ramp-up of the Bear Run Mine in the Midwest.
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 2
EBITDA totaled $416.2 million, a 17 percent increase from $357.2 million in the same quarter of 2010. U.S. Mining EBITDA rose 3 percent to $289.3 million, while Australian operations delivered a 55 percent increase in EBITDA to $190.5 million. Australian operations benefited from higher pricing, partly offset by the effects of record rains on volumes and costs that continued throughout the quarter and impacted EBITDA by approximately $70 million. Trading and Brokerage contributed $26.8 million in EBITDA.
Operating profit rose 22 percent to $294.3 million, driving a 28 percent increase in operating cash flows to $220.6 million.
Income from continuing operations totaled $179.6 million as adjusted income from continuing operations rose 31 percent to $186.0 million. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations reached $0.65 compared with $0.50 in the prior year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share rose 29 percent to $0.67.
(1)
Represents non-GAAP financial measures defined at the end of this release and illustrated in the reconciliation of EBITDA tables after this release.
GLOBAL COAL MARKETS AND PEABODY'S POSITION
"This quarter we saw continued evidence of coal's global supercycle," said Boyce. "Global demand is rising and supply remains constrained. We believe coal fundamentals will remain strong for decades, even as other energy forms are proven too expensive or too limited to provide reliable low-cost energy at significant scale."
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 3
The global coal supply-demand balance remains tight. Coal-fueled generation increased at double-digit rates in China and India in the first quarter and global steel production rose an estimated 10 percent, while coal supplies were constrained by heavy rains across the Southern Hemisphere.
Increasing global coal demand has led to record price settlements in both metallurgical and thermal coal in recent weeks. In Australia, high quality hard coking coal has been priced at $330 per tonne for quarterly contracts. The company has 4 to 5 million tons of metallurgical coal unpriced for the second half of 2011 with all metallurgical coal production unpriced for 2012. The company is targeting total 2011 metallurgical coal sales of 9 to 10 million tons.
Peabody also is pricing Australian seaborne thermal coal for delivery over the next year based on the benchmark of nearly $130 per tonne. The company has 5 to 6 million tons of thermal coal unpriced for the remainder of 2011, the majority of which is expected to be priced at the current benchmark, and 80 to 85 percent of seaborne thermal coal unpriced for 2012. The company is targeting 2011 Australian seaborne thermal coal sales of 13 to 14 million tons.
Reviewing the current global coal markets:
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 4
Over the next decade, coal is expected to fuel more incremental electricity generation than natural gas, oil, nuclear, hydro, solar, biomass and geothermal combined. Nearly 400 GW of coal-fueled generation is under construction around the world, representing 1.4 billion tonnes of annual coal use.
U.S. coal shipments increased an estimated 2 percent year to date to serve higher domestic steel production and rising export demand, offset by reduced domestic electricity generation.
Winter inventory reductions at utilities were twice the five-year average, and ended the quarter an estimated 5 percent lower than the prior year on a days-use basis. The company expects modest increases in U.S. coal demand in 2011, followed by greater recovery in 2012 led by stronger economic growth and manufacturing activity.
Given Peabody's near-term outlook for the U.S. markets, essentially all U.S. coal sales are committed and priced for 2011. The company has 30 to 35 percent of its expected U.S. coal production unpriced for 2012, and 70 to 80 percent unpriced for 2013.
The company expects to increase its position as a major exporter of U.S. coal with shipments from multiple regions through the Northwest, Gulf Coast and East Coast.
PROJECT UPDATE
In Australia, plans remain on track to expand the platform to 35 to 40 million tons by 2014 to 2015, reaching 12 to 15 million tons of metallurgical coal capacity and 15 to 17 million tons of export thermal capacity. The first of the six projects is expected to be completed this year at the low-cost Wilpinjong Mine, ultimately delivering an additional 2 to 3 million tons of thermal coal into the rising seaborne markets. Expansions continued at the Metropolitan, Millennium and Burton metallurgical coal mines as well as the Wambo surface and underground thermal coal complex.
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 5
In Asia:
In the United States, the company announced a major throughput and development agreement for up to 24 million tonnes per year of Powder River Basin coal through a large planned West Coast export facility. Permitting is under way and has received broad-based political, labor and business support.
Peabody also has acquired coal leases in April in the Powder River Basin to evaluate development of underground coal gasification projects. The leases were acquired for $6.5 million and are located on approximately 28,000 acres.
The company continues to anticipate full-year capital expenditures of $900 to $950 million, with the majority targeted toward growth and expansion projects.
OUTLOOK
Second quarter results are expected to benefit from increased Australia volumes and higher metallurgical and thermal coal prices, offset by residual effects related to the record Australian rains, a scheduled longwall move in Australia, and reduced production at the company's Twentymile Mine in Colorado. In the last week, the company encountered difficult geology at Twentymile, and Peabody is working with the U.S. Mine Safety and Health
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 6
Administration on a new operating plan to manage through the conditions and resume production. The range of options could lead to significantly reduced longwall production from the mine in the quarter.
Peabody is targeting second quarter 2011 EBITDA in the range of $525 to $625 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.85 to $1.10. Peabody is targeting full-year 2011 EBITDA in the range of $2.1 to $2.5 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.50 to $4.50.
Peabody continues to target total 2011 sales of 245 to 265 million tons including 28 to 30 million tons from Australia, 195 to 205 million tons from the United States and the remainder from Trading and Brokerage activities.
Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in clean coal solutions.  Its coal products fuel approximately 10 percent of U.S. power and 2 percent of worldwide electricity.
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of April 19, 2011. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company's control. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect the company's results include, but are not limited to: demand for coal in the United States and the Pacific Rim thermal and metallurgical coal seaborne markets; price volatility and demand, particularly in higher-margin products and in our trading and brokerage businesses; impact of weather on demand, production and transportation; reductions and/or deferrals of purchases by major customers and ability to renew sales contracts; credit and performance risks associated with customers, suppliers, co-shippers, trading, banks and other financial counterparties; geologic, equipment, permitting and operational risks related to mining; transportation availability, performance and costs; availability, timing of delivery and costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires; successful implementation of business strategies, including our Btu Conversion and generation development initiatives; negotiation of labor contracts, employee relations and workforce availability; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations and funding requirements; replacement and development of coal reserves; access to capital and credit markets and availability and costs of credit, margin capacity, surety bonds, letters of credit, and insurance; effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates (primarily the Australian dollar); effects of acquisitions or divestitures; economic strength and political stability of countries in which we have operations or serve customers; legislation, regulations and court decisions or other government actions, including new environmental requirements, changes in income tax regulations or other regulatory taxes; litigation, including claims not yet asserted; and other risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Included in our release of financial information accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are certain non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by SEC regulations.  We have defined below the non-GAAP financial measures that we use and have included in the following tables of this release reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. 
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 7
EBITDA (also called Adjusted EBITDA) is defined as income from continuing operations before deducting net interest expense, income taxes, asset retirement obligation expense, and depreciation, depletion and amortization.  EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flow as determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.  Management uses EBITDA as a key measure of operating performance and also believes it is a useful indicator of the company's ability to meet debt service and capital expenditure requirements.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EPS are defined as income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of the remeasurement of foreign income tax accounts.  Management has included these measures because, in management's opinion, excluding such impact is a better indicator of the company's ongoing effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share, and is therefore more useful in comparing the company's results with prior and future periods.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)
For the Quarters Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)
For the Quarters Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010
Metallurgical coal sales totaled 2.1 million tons and 2.3 million tons for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Includes revenue-based production taxes and royalties; excludes depreciation, depletion and amortization; asset retirement obligation expense; selling and administrative expenses; and certain other costs related to post-mining activities. Includes asset sales, property management costs and revenues, and coal royalty expense. Includes Generation Development and Btu Conversion development costs, costs associated with post-mining activities, and losses from equity interests.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
March 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010
(Dollars in Millions)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes (Unaudited)
For the Quarters Ended March 31, 2011 and 2010
(Dollars in Millions)
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes  2011 Targets (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions, Except Earnings Per Share Data)
In order to arrive at the numerator used to calculate adjusted diluted EPS, it is necessary to deduct net income attributable to noncontrolling interests from this amount.
(1)
Reflects income from continuing operations, net of income taxes less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(2)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


