FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20111107070054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") is furnishing under Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K the information attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1, which information is incorporated herein by reference. This information, which has not been previously reported, is excerpted from a Preliminary Offering Memorandum that is being disseminated and a presentation to investors in connection with the proposed notes offering described in Item 8.01 below.
In connection with Peabody's previously announced acquisition of Macarthur Coal Limited ("Macarthur"), investors may access audited financial data for Macarthur for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2011 through the website of the Australian Stock Exchange (the "ASX") under Macarthur's symbol "MCC" at http://www.asx.com.au/. Information contained on or through the ASX's website is not part of this Current Report on Form 8-K and is not incorporated herein by reference.
Peabody will file the financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K with respect to its acquisition of Macarthur as soon as practicable, and in any event not later than 71 days after the date on which the Current Report on Form 8-K disclosing the acquisition of Macarthur was required to be filed pursuant to Item 2.01 of Form 8-K.
Peabody will file the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K with respect to its acquisition of Macarthur as soon as practicable, and in any event not later than 71 days after the date on which the Current Report on Form 8-K disclosing the acquisition of Macarthur was required to be filed pursuant to Item 2.01 of Form 8-K.
As provided in General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included under this Item, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On November 7, 2011, Peabody issued a press release announcing that it intends to offer $2.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2018 and senior unsecured notes due 2021. Peabody intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes, together with other sources of financing, to fund the acquisition of Macarthur Coal Limited and for related fees and expenses, with any remaining proceeds being used to repay part or all of any revolver borrowings associated with the acquisition or for general corporate purposes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report and the exhibits hereto may contain certain statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Wherever possible, Peabody has identified these forward-looking statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "expects," "projects" and similar phrases. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions its management believes are reasonable. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause Peabody's actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements, including, among other things, the risks and uncertainties disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports it files with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time.
Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond Peabody's control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different and any or all of these forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They speak only as of the date made and can be affected by assumptions Peabody might make, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this document and the exhibits hereto and in
 
Peabody's annual and quarterly reports will be important in determining future results. Consequently, Peabody cannot assure you that its expectations or forecasts expressed in such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Actual future results may vary materially. Except as required by law, Peabody undertakes no obligation to publicly update any of its forward-looking or other statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the twelve months ended June 30, 2011 give effect to the acquisition of Macarthur as if it had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet information as of June 30, 2011, gives effect to the acquisition of Macarthur as if it had occurred on June 30, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information included in this offering memorandum is based on the historical financial statements of Peabody and Macarthur and on certain assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, which are described in the notes to the statements below. We have determined the fair values of the Macarthur assets to be acquired and liabilities that we have assumed based only on our internal valuation and analysis, and accordingly, the pro forma financial statements do not include an allocation of the purchase price to reflect the fair value of those assets and liabilities based on an independent valuation. Once this independent valuation is completed, this pro forma information will be adjusted. Furthermore, because we did not take control of Macarthur's Board of Directors until October 26, 2011, we have had limited access to Macarthur's financial information. This pro forma information may be adjusted based upon information that we obtain in the future. These adjustments may be material.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information included in this offering memorandum has not been fully prepared in compliance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X of the SEC or U.S. GAAP.
The unaudited pro forma financial information:
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been compiled from the following sources:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010:
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the last twelve months ended June 30, 2011:
 
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet at June 30, 2011:
 
 
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information
IFRS and U.S. GAAP Differences
There has been no attempt to identify future differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP as the result of proposed changes in accounting standards, transactions or events that may occur in the future. The organizations that promulgate IFRS and U.S. GAAP have significant projects ongoing that could have a significant impact on future comparisons between IFRS and U.S. GAAP, which could have a significant impact on us or the combined company.
Assumption Regarding Shares Acquired
The pro forma presentation assumes 100% of the Macarthur shares are acquired at A$16.25 per share. Should we acquire less than 100% of the outstanding shares, the ultimate amount of consideration paid and the allocation of purchase accounting and other required adjustments will change.
Adjustments for Differences in Accounting Policies Relating to Overburden and Exploration and Evaluation Activities
The following adjustments have been made to highlight two significant differences between Peabody's accounting policies and Macarthur's accounting policies. Macarthur's financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differs from the accounting policies used by Peabody. To date, we have not performed a complete analysis of the differences in accounting policies of Peabody and Macarthur and, accordingly, other differences, which may be material, may exist that have not been highlighted in this offering memorandum. As noted above, there has been no attempt to identify future differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP.
(1) Overburden in advance
Macarthur capitalizes costs incurred in the removal of overburden from coal deposits ("overburden in advance") and defers the recognition of the expense until the coal is extracted while Peabody, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, expenses these items as incurred while a mine is in production. The following table sets forth the amount of Macarthur's overburden in advance asset balances:
 
The adjustments made to the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations were determined by calculating the net change in the total overburden in advance amounts from the beginning of period to the end of period amounts. The A$ net changes in total overburden in advance reflected in the condensed combined statement of operations, all of which increased costs and expenses, are as follows:
 
 
The pro forma condensed combined balance sheet adjustment was based on period end balances multiplied by the period end exchange rate. The pro forma condensed combined statement of operations adjustments were based on the net change during the period multiplied by the average exchange rate for the period.
(2) Exploration and evaluation activities
Macarthur capitalizes exploration and evaluation costs and when production commences depreciates them using a units of production basis while Peabody, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, expenses such costs as incurred to the extent such costs represent exploration or evaluation activities. Macarthur's exploration and evaluation asset balances subject to adjustment included property, plant, equipment and mine development, net of A$10.4 million and investments and other assets of A$63.2 million as of June 30, 2011.
The adjustments made to the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations were determined by calculating the net change in capitalized exploration costs from the beginning of period to the end of period, adjusting for any items transferred to property, plant and equipment under IFRS. The net changes in total capitalized exploration and evaluation costs were as follows:
 
The pro forma condensed combined balance sheet adjustment was based on period end balances multiplied by the period end exchange rate. The pro forma condensed combined statement of operations adjustments were based on the net change during the period multiplied by the average exchange rate for the period.
(3) Tax effects of overburden and exploration and evaluation adjustments
In order to illustrate the after tax effects of the overburden and exploration and evaluation adjustments in the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations, an adjustment to the income tax provision was calculated by multiplying the before tax adjustments by 30%, the Australian statutory rate.
Transaction Pro Forma Adjustments
The following adjustments have been made to give effect to the Transactions:
(A) Purchase price allocation
We have based our preliminary allocation of purchase price on our internal analysis using certain estimates and assumptions in estimating fair value. However, an independent valuation of the fair values for the estimated purchase price allocation and tax basis has not been performed on the individual assets and liabilities of Macarthur. Therefore, once a detailed analysis of the fair values for book and tax purposes has been performed and an independent valuation is completed, the actual fair values assigned may differ and the impact on operating costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization may also differ from the estimates provided herein.
An acquisition of less than 100% of the outstanding shares would result in the recognition of a noncontrolling interest related to the equity ownership not acquired, and could require recognition of deferred taxes for book basis amounts that cannot be deducted for tax purposes. Deferred tax amounts would then be remeasured each period end as a monetary item, the impact of which would increase/decrease our income tax provision.
 
The estimated purchase consideration amounts shown in U.S. dollars (in millions) using an assumed exchange rate of $1.03 per A$ was allocated to Macarthur assets and liabilities as follows:
 
The adjustments made to the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations reflect the additional expense for the estimated impact of the fair value adjustment for coal inventory and estimated impact on depreciation, depletion and amortization for the fair value adjustment for property, plant and equipment (including owned and leased mineral rights).
(B) Financing activities
The adjustments to the pro forma condensed combined balance sheet reflect cash and cash equivalents assumed to be used for the acquisition of Macarthur of $1,042.0 million, the pro forma cash proceeds that would be received upon entering into the new term loan facility of $1,000.0 million ($25.0 million reflected in current maturities of long-term debt), issuing the notes offered hereby totaling $2,750.0 million, borrowing $364.0 million under our revolving credit facility under the 2010 Credit Facility and the deferred financing fees associated with the 2011 Term Loan Facility, the notes offered hereby and the Bridge Facility of $61.0 million ($4.0 million reflected in current assets and $57.0 million reflected in noncurrent assets).
The adjustments to the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations reflect the pro forma adjustment to interest expense related to the amortization of deferred financing fees associated with the 2011 Term Loan Facility, the revolving credit facility, the notes offered hereby and the Bridge Facility and the pro forma adjustment to interest expense associated with the 2011 Term Loan Facility, the notes offered hereby and the Bridge Facility. The interest rate applied to the 2011 Term Loan Facility was approximately 2.75%, reflecting an assumed LIBOR plus applicable margin rate. The interest rate applied to the notes offered hereby reflects an average rate of 6.75%. For each percentage point by which the average interest rate on the notes offered hereby exceeds 6.75%, this adjustment would increase by approximately $27.5 million per year. The interest expense associated with the Bridge Facility reflects assumed fees of $18.0 million. Also reflected in the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations are adjustments for foregone interest income associated with the cash and cash equivalents assumed to be used for the acquisition of Macarthur at an estimated rate of 0.25% and the payment and expensing of estimated acquisition costs of $25.0 million.
(C) Tax effects of Transaction adjustments
In order to illustrate the after tax effects of the Transaction adjustments in the pro forma condensed combined statements of operations, an adjustment to the income tax provision was calculated by multiplying the before tax adjustments by 30% for purchase accounting adjustments (the Australian statutory rate) and 37.5% (our blended U.S. statutory rate) for financing and transaction adjustments.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 7, 2011
PEABODY ENERGY (NYSE: BTU) ANNOUNCES
OFFERING OF AGGREGATE $2.75 BILLION OF SENIOR NOTES
ST LOUIS, Nov. 7, 2011  Peabody Energy announced today that, subject to market conditions, it intends to offer $2.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due in 2018 and 2021 in a private placement to eligible purchasers.
Subject to the successful completion of this offering, Peabody intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes, together with other sources of financing, to fund the acquisition of Macarthur Coal Limited and for related fees and expenses, with any remaining proceeds being used to repay part or all of any revolver borrowings associated with the acquisition or for general corporate purposes.
The notes will be general unsecured senior obligations of Peabody and will rank equally in right of payment with the company's senior indebtedness.
The notes and related guarantees will be offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and to non-U.S. persons in transactions outside the United States under Regulation S of the Securities Act. The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and other applicable securities laws.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the notes, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in clean coal solutions. With 2010 sales of 246 million tons and nearly $7 billion in revenues, Peabody Energy fuels 10 percent of U.S. power and 2 percent of worldwide electricity.


