FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20111205182151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Act") was enacted. Section 1503 of the Act contains new reporting requirements regarding mine safety, including disclosing on a Current Report on Form 8-K the receipt of a written notice from the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration ("MSHA") that a mine has a potential to have a pattern of violations of mandatory health or safety standards that are of such nature as could have significantly and substantially contributed to the cause and effect of coal or other mine health or safety hazards under Section 104(e) of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the "Mine Act").
 
On November 30, 2011, Big Ridge, Inc., a subsidiary of Peabody Energy Corporation, received a written notice from MSHA that a potential pattern of violations exists at the Willow Lake Portal mine.  Big Ridge Inc. disagrees with MSHA's interpretation of a potential pattern of violations at the mine based on outdated d
ata and is in discussions with MSHA to resolve the issue
.  The most current data available on MSHA's website confirms that the Willow Lake Portal mine does not qualify for a potential pattern of violations.
 
The Willow Lake Portal mine has taken aggressive actions to improve safety, improving the mine's incidence rate 60 percent year-to-date through October 2011. This rate is more than 30 percent better than the underground industry average based on the most recent statistics available.  The Willow Lake Portal mine will continue working with MSHA to drive continuous safety improvement.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


