FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20110719081132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 19, 2011, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") issued a press release setting forth Peabodys second quarter 2011 financial results and providing guidance on Peabodys third quarter and full year 2011 forecasted results. A copy of Peabodys press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit No: 99.1 Description of Exhibit: Press Release of Peabody Energy Corporation dated July 19, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

PEABODY ENERGY
News Release
CONTACT: Vic Svec (314) 342-7768
July 19, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ST. LOUIS, July 19  Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today reported second quarter 2011 EBITDA of $579.5 million, a 32 percent increase from the prior year. Revenues climbed 21 percent to $2.01 billion. Income from continuing operations increased 36 percent to $293.0 million, with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.05. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations rose 61 percent to $1.11. Income was impacted by $24.5 million, or $0.06 per share, from a provision related to outstanding litigation.
"Peabody once again delivered substantial increases in revenues, EBITDA, operating profit and earnings over the prior year, and we expect an even stronger second half," said Peabody Energy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "Peabody also is leveraging our unique access to the strongest global markets as we look to expand our Australia platform through organic growth and acquisitions, participate in the Mongolian Tavan Tolgoi development and partner in potential development of one of China's largest coal mines."
RESULTS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Second quarter revenues climbed 21 percent over the prior year to a record $2.01 billion, led by increased realized pricing across the platform and higher Australia volumes. Global sales were 58.2 million tons compared with 59.7 million tons in the prior year.
EBITDA totaled $579.5 million, a 32 percent increase from the prior year, led by greater contributions from Australian Mining Operations. Revenues per ton in Australia rose
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 2
significantly over prior-year levels, overcoming increased operating costs due to residual weather impacts, higher royalties and currency appreciation. In the United States, results include approximately $34 million in impacts related to geologic issues encountered early in the quarter at the Twentymile Mine. U.S. weather and flooding also impacted production volumes in the Midwest and shipped volumes in the Powder River Basin due to rail transportation constraints, contributing to an increase in operating costs from the prior year. Total EBITDA benefited from higher results from Trading and Brokerage and the timing of Resource Management transactions.
Operating profit increased 41 percent to $458.4 million, leading to a 35 percent increase in operating cash flows to $395.0 million.
Income from continuing operations totaled $293.0 million as adjusted income from continuing operations increased 58 percent to $308.4 million. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations reached $1.05 compared with $0.76 in the prior year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share rose 61 percent to $1.11.
(1)
Represents non-GAAP financial measures defined at the end of this release and illustrated in the reconciliation of EBITDA tables after this release.
GLOBAL COAL MARKETS AND PEABODY'S POSITION
"Pacific Rim growth continues to lead coal through the early stages of a demand supercycle, bolstering Australian metallurgical and thermal coal demand and pricing that continues to be near record highs," said Boyce. "Seaborne demand is further strengthened by rising needs in the Atlantic market where coal is required to backfill for declining nuclear use in Europe."
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 3
Electricity generation has risen 14 percent year to date in China and 8 percent in India, driving similar increases in thermal coal use. World steel output has increased 8 percent year to date, which would equate to an additional 70 to 80 million tonnes of additional metallurgical coal demand throughout 2011.
Reviewing the global coal markets in more detail:
Strong metallurgical and thermal coal demand led to ongoing pricing strength, with third quarter met coal priced in line with the $315 per tonne benchmark for quarterly contracts and July 1 thermal contracts settling near $128 per tonne.
The company has 2 to 3 million tons of metallurgical coal unpriced for the fourth quarter, with all metallurgical coal production unpriced for 2012. The company continues to target total 2011 metallurgical coal sales of 9 to 10 million tons.
The company has 1 to 2 million tons of seaborne thermal coal unpriced for the remainder of 2011 and 75 to 80 percent of seaborne thermal volumes unpriced for 2012. The company continues to target 2011 Australian thermal exports of 13 to 14 million tons.
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 4
In the United States, electricity generation has remained tepid given weak economic growth and industrial production. Although coal inventories at generators are approximately 30 percent above target levels nationally, Powder River Basin stockpiles continue to decline.
Export activity continues to increase around the United States, with rising volumes at East, West and Gulf Coast ports. The company estimates that U.S. exports will likely exceed 100 million tons in 2011 compared with 84 million tons in 2010.
Peabody remains focused on serving the fastest-growing segments of U.S. coal demand: the Powder River Basin, Illinois Basin and exports. Powder River Basin demand has been stronger this year to serve new power plants, and Illinois Basin products continue to push into new U.S. markets such as South Carolina and the east coast of Florida, as well as export opportunities. Colorado coal is in high demand for exports and Asian customers are expressing increased interest for seaborne Powder River Basin coal.
Peabody remains essentially sold out for 2011 U.S. coal sales. The company has 20 to 25 percent of its expected U.S. coal production unpriced for 2012, and 60 to 70 percent unpriced for 2013.
PROJECT UPDATE
Peabody advanced multiple growth projects during the quarter to increase capacity and further access the global coal markets.
PEABODY ENERGY ANNOUNCES RESULTS  PAGE 5
The company continues to target full-year capital expenditures of $900 to $950 million, with the majority of capital targeted toward mine expansions.
OUTLOOK
Peabody is targeting third quarter 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.05 to $1.25 and EBITDA of $575 to $675 million. Peabody is raising its full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share targets to $4.20 to $4.60, and now targets full-year EBITDA in the range of $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion. The third quarter is expected to benefit from higher volumes and continued strength in pricing for Australian seaborne metallurgical and thermal coal, partly offset by lingering weather impacts on U.S. shipments and co-shipper issues in Australia.
Peabody continues to target total 2011 sales of 245 to 265 million tons including 28 to 30 million tons from Australia, 195 to 205 million tons from the United States and the remainder from Trading and Brokerage activities.
Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in clean coal solutions.  Its coal products fuel approximately 10 percent of U.S. power and 2 percent of worldwide electricity.
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations as of July 19, 2011. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company's control. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect the company's results include, but are not limited to: demand for coal in the United States and the seaborne thermal and metallurgical coal markets; price volatility and demand, particularly in higher-margin products and in our trading and brokerage businesses; impact of weather on demand, production and transportation; reductions and/or deferrals of purchases by major customers and ability to renew sales contracts; credit and performance risks associated with customers, suppliers, co-shippers, trading, banks and other financial counterparties; geologic, equipment, permitting and operational risks related to mining; transportation availability, performance and costs; availability, timing of delivery and costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires; successful implementation of business strategies, including our Btu Conversion and generation development initiatives; negotiation of labor contracts, employee relations and workforce availability; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations and funding requirements; replacement and development of coal reserves; access to capital and credit markets and availability and costs of credit, margin capacity, surety bonds, letters of credit, and insurance; effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates (primarily the Australian dollar); effects of acquisitions or divestitures; economic strength and political stability of countries in which we have operations or serve customers; legislation, regulations and court decisions or other government actions, including new environmental requirements, changes in income tax regulations or other regulatory taxes; litigation, including claims not yet asserted; and other risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Included in our release of financial information accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are certain non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by SEC regulations.  We have defined below the non-GAAP financial measures that we use and have included in the following tables of this release reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. 
EBITDA (also called Adjusted EBITDA) is defined as income from continuing operations before deducting net interest expense, income taxes, asset retirement obligation expense and depreciation, depletion and amortization.  EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flow as determined in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.  Management uses EBITDA as a key measure of operating performance and also believes it is a useful indicator of the company's ability to meet debt service and capital expenditure requirements.
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted EPS are defined as income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of the remeasurement of foreign income tax accounts.  Management has included these measures because, in management's opinion, excluding such impact is a better indicator of the company's ongoing effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share, and is therefore more useful in comparing the company's results with prior and future periods.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)
For the Quarters Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)
For the Quarters Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010
Metallurgical coal sales totaled 2.3 million tons and 2.2 million tons for the quarters ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 4.4 million and 4.5 million tons for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Includes revenue-based production taxes and royalties; excludes depreciation, depletion and amortization; asset retirement obligation expense; selling and administrative expenses; and certain other costs related to post-mining activities. Includes certain asset sales, property management costs and revenues, and coal royalty expense. Includes Generation Development and Btu Conversion development costs, costs associated with post-mining activities, (income) losses from equity interests and provisions for litigation.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
June 30, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010
(Dollars in Millions)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes (Unaudited)
For the Quarters Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 and 2010
(Dollars in Millions)
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Income from Continuing Operations, Net of Income Taxes  2011 Targets (Unaudited)
(Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Data)
In order to arrive at the numerator used to calculate adjusted diluted EPS, it is necessary to deduct net income attributable to noncontrolling interests from this amount. Reflects income from continuing operations, net of income taxes less net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(1)
(2)
This information is intended to be reviewed in conjunction with the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


