FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20111114170439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2011, Peabody Energy Corporation "Peabody" issued a press release announcing the pricing of its offering of $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.00% Senior Notes due 2018 and $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.25% Senior Notes due 2021. Peabody intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes, together with other sources of financing, to fund the acquisition of Macarthur Coal Limited and for related fees and expenses, with any remaining proceeds being used to repay part or all of any revolver borrowings associated with the acquisition or for general corporate purposes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report and the exhibit hereto may contain certain statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Wherever possible, Peabody has identified these forward-looking statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "expects," "projects" and similar phrases. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions its management believes are reasonable. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause Peabody's actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements, including, among other things, the risks and uncertainties disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports it files with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time.
Because these forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond Peabody's control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different and any or all of these forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They speak only as of the date made and can be affected by assumptions Peabody might make, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this document and the exhibit hereto and in
 
Peabody's annual and quarterly reports will be important in determining future results. Consequently, Peabody cannot assure you that its expectations or forecasts expressed in such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Actual future results may vary materially. Except as required by law, Peabody undertakes no obligation to publicly update any of its forward-looking or other statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 7, 2011
PEABODY ENERGY (NYSE: BTU) ANNOUNCES
PRICING OF AGGREGATE OF $3.1 BILLION OF SENIOR NOTES
ST LOUIS, Nov. 7, 2011  Peabody Energy announced today the pricing of its offering of $3.1 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes, comprised of $1.6 billion of 6% senior notes due 2018 and $1.5 billion of 6.25% senior notes due 2021.
Peabody intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes, together with other sources of financing, to fund the acquisition of Macarthur Coal Limited and for related fees and expenses, with any remaining proceeds being used to repay part or all of any revolver borrowings associated with the acquisition or for general corporate purposes. Net proceeds from the sale of the notes, before any expenses relating to this offering, are expected to be approximately $3.1 billion.
The notes will be general unsecured senior obligations of Peabody and will rank equally in right of payment with the company's other senior indebtedness.
The notes and related guarantees are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and to non-U.S. persons in transactions outside the United States under Regulation S of the Securities Act. The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and other applicable securities laws.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the notes, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in clean coal solutions. With 2010 sales of 246 million tons and nearly $7 billion in revenues, Peabody Energy fuels 10% of U.S. power and 2% of worldwide electricity.


