FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20110902124806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
PEAMCoal Pty Ltd ("PEAMCoal") (a company owned 60% by Peabody Energy Corporation (the "Company") and 40% by ArcelorMittal S.A. ("ArcelorMittal")) has entered into an Implementation Deed dated as of August 30, 2011 (the "Implementation Deed") with Macarthur Coal Limited ("Macarthur"). The Implementation Deed relates to PEAMCoal's current takeover offer for all of the issued shares in Macarthur (the "Takeover Offer"). The Takeover Offer is subject to the following conditions:
Under the Implementation Deed, PEAMCoal has agreed to increase the cash consideration under the Takeover Offer to A$16.00 per share, with Macarthur shareholders on the register on the record date of September 2, 2011 being entitled to receive Macarthur's final dividend in respect of FY2011 of A$0.16 per share with no reduction to the A$16.00 per share offer price.
In addition, Macarthur has agreed that its directors will unanimously recommend that Macarthur shareholders accept the Takeover Offer and will accept the Takeover Offer in respect of any Macarthur shares that they or their associates own or control, in the absence of a superior proposal. In addition, Macarthur has agreed to provide a number of deal protection measures to PEAMCoal, including a break fee that is payable in certain circumstances if the Takeover Offer does not proceed, an obligation to cease any current discussions in relation to competing proposals, no shop and no talk restrictions subject to customary fiduciary outs, Macarthur notification obligations in relation to competing proposals and matching rights if a competing proposal is received by Macarthur.
PEAMCoal and Macarthur have made customary representations and warranties in the Implementation Deed and it also contains limited termination rights.
The foregoing description of the Implementation Deed does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Implementation Deed, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Implementation Deed contains representations and warranties PEAMCoal and Macarthur made to each other as of specific dates. The assertions embodied in those representations and warranties were made solely for purposes of the contract between PEAMCoal and Macarthur and may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by PEAMCoal and Macarthur in connection with negotiating the terms of the Implementation Deed. Moreover, certain representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date because they are subject to a contractual standard of materiality different from those generally applicable to stockholders, or were used for the purpose of allocating risk between PEAMCoal and Macarthur rather than establishing matters as facts. For the foregoing reasons, no person should rely on the representations and warranties as statements of factual information.
Item 8.01. Other Events
On August 29, 2011, the Company and ArcelorMittal issued a press release announcing the signing of the Implementation Deed. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report and the exhibits hereto may contain certain statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Wherever possible, we have identified these forward-looking statements by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "expects," "projects" and similar phrases. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions our management believes are reasonable. Such forward-looking statements
 
are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements, including, among other things, the risks and uncertainties disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time.
Because our forward-looking statements are based on estimates and assumptions that are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are subject to change, actual results could be materially different and any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They speak only as of the date made and can be affected by assumptions we might make, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this document and the exhibits hereto and in our annual and quarterly reports will be important in determining future results. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our expectations or forecasts expressed in such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Actual future results may vary materially. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of our forward-looking or other statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Deed
 
Contents
Table of contents
Implementation deed            page 1
 
Implementation deed            page 2
 
The deed
Implementation deed
Date   30 August 2011
Between the parties
This deed witnesses as follows:
Implementation deed            page 3
 
Implementation deed            page 4
 
1      <Definitions, interpretation and deed components
Implementation deed            page 5
 
1      <Definitions, interpretation and deed components
Implementation deed            page 6
 
1      <Definitions, interpretation and deed components
Implementation deed            page 7
 
1      <Definitions, interpretation and deed components
Implementation deed            page 8
 
2      Recommendation
Implementation deed            page 9
 
3 Public announcements
4 Facilitating the Offer
4.1 Target's Statement
4.2 Promoting the Takeover Bid
 
5 Appointment of directors
6 Reimbursement Fee
6.1 Background to Reimbursement Fee
6.2 Reimbursement Fee trigger
 
6.3 Timing of payment of Reimbursement Fee
6.4 Basis of Reimbursement Fee
6.5 Compliance with law
6.6 Reimbursement Fee payable only once
 
6.7 Other Claims
7 Exclusivity arrangements
7.1 Prohibition
7.2 Fiduciary exception to no talk and notification provisions
 
7.3 Provision of information
7.4 Notification of approaches
7.5 Matching right
 
7.6 Cease discussions
8 Confidentiality
8.1 Permitted disclosure
8.2 Survival of obligations
 
9 Warranties
9.1 Macarthur Warranties
 
9.2 PEAMCoal Warranties
 
9.3 Reliance on representations and warranties
9.4 Notification
10 Termination
10.1 Termination rights
10.2 Effect of termination
10.3 Termination
 
11 Duties, costs and expenses
11.1 Duties
11.2 Parties to bear own other costs
12 GST
12.1 Interpretation
12.3 Reimbursements and indemnifications
 
13.1 Notices
Implementation deed            page 20
 
13.2 Governing law and jurisdiction
13.3 Service of process
Implementation deed            page 21
 
13.4 Waivers and variation
Implementation deed            page 22
 
Implementation deed            page 23
 
Implementation deed            page 24

Exhibit 99.1
news release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) and ArcelorMittal (NYSE: MT) today announced that PEAMCoal has agreed to terms with the Macarthur board for a cash takeover of all outstanding shares of Macarthur Coal for A$16.00 per share, valuing the equity in Macarthur at approximately A$4.8 billion. All participating members of the Macarthur Board recommend that Macarthur shareholders accept the new PEAMCoal offer.
St. Louis, Luxembourg, August 29 
1
"This is a major step forward in our acquisition process," said Peabody Energy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. "We are pleased to have Macarthur, Peabody and ArcelorMittal moving forward together to urge shareholders to accept this attractive premium. We now look forward to completing this transaction in a timely manner."
Aditya Mittal, CFO and Member of the Group Management Board at ArcelorMittal, said, "Our offer is the only offer before Macarthur shareholders, and we urge them to accept without delay and receive a substantial premium for their investment."
PEAMCoal and Macarthur have entered into an implementation deed, which is attached to this announcement. The improved offer is subject to limited conditions as set out in section 11.7 of PEAMCoal's replacement bidder's statement dated 15 August 2011, including minimum 50.01% acceptances and final regulatory clearance or expiry of the relevant waiting period.
 
 
The price to be received by Macarthur shareholders of A$16.00 per share represents a substantial premium of:
Macarthur shareholders seeking further information regarding the offer should contact PEAMCoal's Offer Information Line on 1800 992 039 (for callers within Australia) or +61 2 8280 7692 (for callers outside Australia).
Peabody Energy Forward Looking Statement
Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company's control. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect results include those described in this press release as well as risks detailed in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
ArcelorMittal Forward Looking Statement
This document contains forward-looking information and statements about ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the words "will," "believe," "expect" or similar expressions. Although ArcelorMittal's management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, investors and holders of ArcelorMittal's securities are cautioned that forward-looking information and statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of ArcelorMittal, that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. These risks and uncertainties include those discussed or identified in the filings with the Luxembourg Stock Market Authority for the Financial Markets (Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier) and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") made or to be made by ArcelorMittal, including ArcelorMittal's Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December, 2010 filed with the SEC. ArcelorMittal undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Macarthur Coal
Macarthur Coal is a leading producer of low-volatile PCI metallurgical coal with production and development assets in the Bowen Basin, Australia, including the Coppabella and Moorvale Joint Venture, Middlemount and Codrilla. It holds total coal reserves of 270 million tonnes and total resources of approximately 2.3 billion tonnes.
 
About Peabody Energy
Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in clean coal solutions. With 2010 sales of 246 million tons and nearly $7 billion in revenues, Peabody Energy fuels 10% of U.S. power and 2% of worldwide electricity. For more information about Peabody Energy visit:
www.peabodyenergy.com
.
Contact: Vic Svec (+1 314 342-7768)
About ArcelorMittal
ArcelorMittal is the world's leading integrated steel and mining company, with operations in more than 60 countries. In 2010, ArcelorMittal had revenues of US$78 billion and crude steel production of 90.6 million tonnes, representing approximately 8% of world steel output. ArcelorMittal's mining operations produced 47 million tonnes of iron ore and 7 million tonnes of metallurgical coal as well in 2010. For more information about ArcelorMittal visit:
www.arcelormittal.com
.
Contact: Giles Read (+44 20 3214 2845)


