FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20121226100227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Peabody Energy Corporation on October 26, 2012 is being filed to provide disclosure regarding the employment agreement between Peabody Energy Corporation and Kemal Williamson that was entered into as of December 20, 2012.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) Information regarding changes in roles and responsibilities of Eric Ford and Charles L. Meintjes is incorporated herein by reference from Item 5.02(c) below.
(c) On October 23, 2012, Peabody Energy Corporation ("Peabody") announced leadership changes within the business units to further strengthen Peabody's global operating platform. Peabody has named Eric Ford as Chairman of Peabody's Australia Business Unit, Charles L. Meintjes as President  Australia and Kemal Williamson as President  Americas. Mr. Ford currently serves as President  Australia and Mr. Meintjes currently serves as Acting President  Americas. All changes are effective November 15, 2012.
In his new role as Chairman of Peabody's Australia Business Unit, Mr. Ford will oversee strategic direction, operational and commercial strategy and performance, and external stakeholder interaction. Mr. Ford, age 58, joined Peabody in March 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and served in that position until he was named President  Australia in March 2012. He has over 40 years of extensive international management, operating and engineering experience. Mr. Ford serves on the board of directors of Compass Minerals International, Inc.
In his new role as President  Australia, Mr. Meintjes will lead business unit teams that manage all aspects of the Australia operating platform with responsibility for health and safety, operations, sales and marketing, product delivery and support functions. Mr. Meintjes, age 49, has extensive operational, strategy, continuous improvement and information technology experience with mining companies on three continents. He joined Peabody in 2007, and most recently served as Acting President  Americas and Group Executive of Operations for the Midwest and Colorado. Other past positions with Peabody include Senior Vice President of Operations Improvement and Senior Vice President Engineering and Continuous Improvement.
In his new role as President  Americas, Mr. Williamson will lead business unit teams that manage all aspects of the Americas operating platform with responsibility for health and safety, operations, sales and marketing, product delivery and support functions. Mr. Williamson, age 53, brings more than 30 years experience in mining engineering and operations roles across North America and Australia. He joined Peabody in 2000, and most recently was Group Executive Operations for the Peabody Energy Australia operations. Other past positions with Peabody include Group Executive  Powder River Basin Operations, Group Executive  Midwest Operations, and Director  Land Management.
Williamson Employment Agreement
On December 20, 2012, Peabody and Mr. Williamson entered into a restated employment agreement pursuant to which he accepted employment as President Americas. The employment agreement provides for an initial three-year term which automatically renews for a one-year period at the end of the initial term and, if applicable, any renewal period, unless written notice is given by either party at least 90 days before the end of the applicable period.
The employment agreement describes the compensation arrangements applicable to Mr. Williamson during his employment with Peabody, which includes:
 
 
 
Following a termination of employment for any reason during the term of employment or any renewal period, Mr. Williamson will be entitled to receive: (1) base salary earned but not yet paid prior to such termination; (2) any reimbursable business expenses not yet reimbursed; (3) any vacation time accrued but unused as of the date of such termination; and (4) any benefits accrued and vested under any of Peabody's employee benefit programs, plans and practices on or prior to the date of termination. In addition:
 
 
 
 
The employment agreement provides for confidentiality obligations during and following Mr. Williamson's employment and includes noncompetition provisions that are effective during, and for one year following, his employment, and nonsolicitation provisions that are effective during, and for two years following, his employment.
The foregoing description is only a summary of certain provisions of the employment agreement, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the employment agreement itself, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and which is incorporated by reference herein.
Meintjes Employment Agreement
Peabody intends to enter into an amended employment agreement with Mr. Meintjes and will file an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide a brief description of that agreement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This AGREEMENT (the "") is entered into as of December 20, 2012 (the "") by and between Peabody Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Kemal Williamson (""). This Agreement is a continuation, in the form of a complete restatement to incorporate updated provisions, of the most recent restated employment agreement between the Company and Executive dated December 31, 2008 (the "").
Agreement
Restatement Date
Executive
Prior Agreement
To induce Executive to serve as the Company's President Americas effective as of the Restatement Date, the Company desires to amend and restate the Prior Agreement and provide the Executive with compensation and other benefits on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Executive is willing to accept such continued employment and perform continued services for the Company, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
It is therefore hereby agreed by and between the parties as follows:
1. .
Employment
1.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company agrees to continue to employ Executive during the term hereof as President Americas. In such capacity, Executive shall have the powers, responsibilities and authority as are assigned by the Company to this position.
1.2 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Executive hereby accepts continued employment as President Americas commencing as of the Restatement Date and agrees, subject to any period of vacation or other approved leave, to devote his or her full business time and efforts to the performance of services, duties and responsibilities in connection therewith, subject at all times to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
1.3 Subject to Executive's compliance with all of the provisions of the Company's code of conduct and other policies, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude Executive from engaging in charitable work and community affairs, from delivering lectures, fulfilling speaking engagements or teaching at educational institutions, from managing any investment made by him or her or his or her immediate family with respect to which Executive is not substantially involved with the management or operation of the entity in which Executive has invested (provided that no such investment in publicly traded equity securities may exceed five percent (5%) of the equity of any entity without the prior written approval of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ("")) or from serving, subject to the prior written approval of the Chairman and CEO, as a member of boards of directors or as a trustee of any other corporation, association or entity, to the extent that any of the above activities do not materially interfere with the performance of his or her duties hereunder. For purposes of the preceding sentence, any approval by the Chairman and CEO required therein shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Chairman and CEO
2. . Executive's term of employment under this Agreement shall commence on the Restatement Date and continue for three (3) years, subject to earlier termination as provided in the Agreement (the ""). The Agreement automatically will renew for a one (1)-year period at the end of the initial Term of Employment and, if applicable, any renewal period, unless either the Company or Executive notifies the other party of the intention not to renew the Agreement in writing at least ninety (90) days before the end of the applicable period.
Term of Employment
Term of Employment
3. .
Compensation
3.1 . During the Term of Employment, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary ("") at the initial rate of $500,000. Such Base Salary shall be payable in accordance with the ordinary payroll practices of the Company. During the Term of Employment, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "") and/or the Chairman and CEO shall review Executive's Base Salary in good faith, at least annually, in accordance with the Company's customary procedures and practices regarding the salaries of senior executives, and may adjust Executive's Base Salary following such review. "" for all purposes herein shall be deemed to be a reference to the Base Salary in effect as of any date that requires the determination of Executive's Base Salary hereunder.
Salary
Base Salary
Compensation Committee
Base Salary
3.2 .
Annual Bonus
(a) In addition to Base Salary, Executive shall, commencing in 2012 and continuing for each calendar year thereafter during the Term of Employment, be eligible to receive an annual cash bonus (the "") in accordance with a program developed by the Compensation Committee and/or the Chairman and CEO, based on achievement of performance targets established by the Compensation Committee and/or the Chairman and CEO as soon as practicable at or after the beginning of the calendar year to which the performance targets relate. The performance targets for the 2012 Bonus shall be determined before or as soon as practicable after the Restatement Date. Executive's Bonus opportunity for the 2012 fiscal year is 80% of his or her Base Salary. The Compensation Committee and/or the Chairman and CEO shall review Executive's Bonus opportunity in good faith from time to time in accordance with the Company's customary procedures and practices regarding the bonus opportunities of senior executives, and may adjust Executive's Bonus opportunity following such review. "" for all purposes herein, except as otherwise specifically stated, shall be deemed to be a reference to the Bonus opportunity in effect as of any date that requires the determination of Executive's Bonus hereunder.
Bonus
Bonus
(b) A Bonus award for any calendar year shall be payable to Executive at the time bonuses are paid to executive officers for such calendar year in accordance with the Company's policies and practices, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the later of (i) the calendar year in which the Bonus is earned or (ii) the calendar year in which the Bonus is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the Treasury regulations and other guidance in effect thereunder (collectively, "").
Code
Section 409A
 
3.3 . Executive shall be eligible to receive, from time to time during the Term of Employment, equity-based compensation awards under the Company's equity incentive plan(s) (the ""). Any such Long-Term Incentive Awards shall be governed by separate written grant agreements. Executive's Long-Term Incentive Award is targeted at 200% of Executive's Base Salary, but actual awards may range from 0% of Executive's Base Salary to 350% of Executive's Base Salary. The Compensation Committee and/or the Chairman and CEO shall review the grant date value of Executive's Long-Term Incentive Awards in good faith from time to time in accordance with the Company's customary procedures and practices regarding the long-term incentive awards of senior executives, and may adjust the grant date value of future Long-Term Incentive Awards to Executive following such review. "" for all purposes herein, except as otherwise specifically stated, shall be deemed to be a reference to the grant date Long-Term Incentive Award value in effect as of any date that requires the determination of Executive's Long-Term Incentive Award value hereunder or under any grant agreement.
Equity-Based Compensation
Long-Term Incentive Awards
Long-Term Incentive Award
4. .
Employee Benefits
4.1 . The Company shall provide Executive with employee benefits and perquisites at a level (a) commensurate with his or her position in the Company and (b) at least as favorable to Executive as the arrangements the Company provides to its other senior executives that are in effect and open to new participants on the Restatement Date, including retirement benefits, health and welfare benefits, the Continuation Benefits (as defined in Section 6.2(b)(ii)(B)(II)), directors and officers insurance and/or an indemnification agreement that covers claims arising out of actions or inactions occurring during the Term of Employment, and other employee benefits and perquisites which the Company may make available to its senior executives from time to time in its discretion on and after the Restatement Date. Executive's rights, if any, under any employee benefit plans or programs of the Company as of the Restatement Date shall continue in accordance with plan or program terms as in effect at any given time.
Employee Benefit Programs, Plans and Practices; Perquisites
4.2 . Executive shall be entitled to the number of business days paid vacation in each calendar year as determined in accordance with the Company's applicable vacation policies, which shall be taken at such times as are consistent with Executive's responsibilities hereunder.
Vacation
5. . Subject to prevailing Company policy or guidelines, the Company will reimburse Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred by Executive in carrying out his or her duties on behalf of the Company, provided that payment or reimbursement of expenses shall be made promptly and in no event later than December 31 of the year following the year in which such expenses were incurred, the amount of such expenses eligible for payment or reimbursement in any year shall not affect the amount of such expenses eligible for payment or reimbursement in any other year and no such right to payment or reimbursement shall be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
Expenses
 
6. .
Termination of Employment
6.1 . Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, the Company or Executive may terminate Executive's Term of Employment at any time for any reason by written notice to the other party at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of termination of Executive's employment. In the event of a termination of Executive's employment for any reason during the Term of Employment, the Company shall pay to Executive:
Termination of Employment for Any Reason
(a) within five (5) business days following the date of termination of Executive's employment, a lump sum that includes: (i) Executive's Base Salary earned on or prior to the date of such termination but not yet paid to Executive in accordance with the Company's customary procedures and practices for the payment of executive salaries; (ii) any business expenses incurred by Executive and properly submitted for reimbursement, but not yet reimbursed by the Company under Section 5 above as of the date of such termination; and (iii) any vacation time accrued but unused as of the date of such termination;
(b) any benefits accrued and vested under any of the Company's employee benefit programs, plans and practices on or prior to the date of termination of Executive's employment; and
(c) if Executive's employment terminates due to retirement (as defined in the applicable plan) a prorated bonus for the calendar year of termination of Executive's employment, calculated as the Bonus Executive would have received in such year based on actual performance multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of business days during the calendar year of termination that Executive was employed and the denominator of which is the total number of business days during the calendar year of termination. Such bonus shall be payable when annual Bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the later of (i) the calendar year in which the Bonus is earned or (ii) the calendar year in which the bonus is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 409A.
The amounts described in (a) and (b) above are collectively referred to herein as the "" and shall be paid in accordance with the terms of such Company programs, plans and practices. The Accrued Obligations shall be paid in addition to any amounts payable under any other provision of this Section 6 due to the termination of Executive's employment. Any business expenses incurred by Executive before his or her employment termination date and properly submitted for reimbursement before or within ninety (90) days after the employment termination date shall be processed and paid in accordance with Section 5.
Accrued Obligations
 
6.2 .
Termination by the Company without Cause or Termination by Executive for Good Reason
(a) .
Notice Requirements
(i) . Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (ii) below with respect to a Good Reason termination, the Company or Executive may terminate Executive's Term of Employment at any time for any reason by written notice to the other party at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of termination of Executive's employment.
General
(ii) . If Executive terminates his or her employment during the Term of Employment for Good Reason (as defined in Section 6.2(d) hereof), Executive shall provide written notice to the Company at least forty-five (45) days in advance of the date of termination, such notice shall describe the conduct Executive believes to constitute Good Reason and the Company shall have the opportunity to cure the Good Reason within thirty (30) days after receiving such notice. If the Company cures the conduct that is the basis for the potential termination for Good Reason within such thirty (30)-day period, Executive's notice of termination shall be deemed withdrawn. If Executive does not give notice to the Company as described in this Section 6.2(a)(ii) within ninety (90) days after an event giving rise to Good Reason, Executive's right to claim Good Reason termination on the basis of such event shall be deemed waived.
Good Reason Notice Requirements and Cure Period
(b) .
Severance Benefits
(i) . If Executive's employment is terminated during the Term of Employment (for the avoidance of doubt, the term "terminated" does not include non-renewal of this Agreement):
Severance Payment
(A) by the Company for a reason other than Cause (as defined in Section 6.3(b) hereof), Disability (as defined in Section 6.4 hereof) or death, or
(B) by Executive for Good Reason (as defined in Section 6.2(d) hereof),
and such termination constitutes a Separation from Service (as defined in Section 6.2(c) hereof), the Company, as severance, shall pay to Executive an amount (the "") equal to the total of:
Severance Payment
(I) one (1) times Executive's Base Salary; plus
(II) an additional amount equal to one (1) times the annual average of the actual Bonus awards paid to Executive by the Company for the three (3) calendar years preceding the date of Executive's employment termination (or, if Executive has not been
 
employed by the Company for three (3) full calendar years as of the date his or her employment is terminated for the two (2) calendar years or one (1) calendar year, as applicable, for which he or she has been so employed and eligible to receive a Bonus); plus
(III) six percent (6%) of Executive's Base Salary (to compensate Executive for Company contributions he or she otherwise might have received under the Company's retirement plan).
The Company shall pay to Executive (x) one-half (
 1
/
2
) of such Severance Payment in a lump sum payment on the earlier to occur of Executive's death or the first business day immediately following the six (6)-month anniversary of Executive's Separation from Service and (y) the remaining one-half (
 1
/
2
) of the Severance Payment in six (6) substantially equal monthly payments beginning on the first day of the month next following the initial lump sum payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive shall only be entitled to receive the Severance Payment to the extent that he or she shall execute (and, if applicable, not revoke) a release of claims against the Company (and its officers, directors, employees, affiliates, stockholders, etc.) in a form substantially similar to that attached as to this Agreement (the "").
Exhibit A
Release
(ii) . In addition, if Executive's employment is terminated:
Prorated Bonus and Continuation Benefits
(A) by the Company for a reason other than Cause (as defined in Section 6.3(b) hereof), Disability (as defined in Section 6.4 hereof) or death, or
(B) by Executive for Good Reason (as defined in Section 6.2(d) hereof),
and such termination constitutes a Separation from Service, the following provisions shall apply:
(I) . The Company shall pay to Executive a prorated bonus (the "") for the calendar year of termination of Executive's employment, calculated as the Bonus Executive would have received in such year based on actual performance multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of business days during the calendar year of termination that Executive was employed and the denominator of which is the total number of business days during the calendar year of termination. The Prorated Bonus shall be payable when annual bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the later of (aa) the calendar year in which the Bonus is earned or (bb) the calendar year in which the Bonus is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture within the meaning of Section 409A.
Prorated Bonus
Prorated Bonus
 
(II) . Executive shall be entitled to continuation of group health coverage (including medical, dental, and vision benefits, to the extent permitted under the applicable plan), and the health care flexible spending account (to the extent required to comply with COBRA continuation coverage requirements) (collectively, the "") in accordance with the applicable plan terms for a period of up to eighteen (18) months following the date of Executive's Separation from Service (the ""); , , that Executive pays the full cost of his or her coverage under such plans, except that Executive shall pay only the required contributions for any health care continuation coverage required to be provided to or on behalf of Executive under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended (""), on the same basis as any other plan participant electing similar COBRA continuation coverage under the Company health plan; and , , that any such coverage shall terminate to the extent that Executive is offered or obtains comparable benefits from any other employer during the Benefit Continuation Period. Executive shall be reimbursed by the Company, on an after-tax basis, for his or her cost of the Continuation Benefits (except that the reimbursement for his or her required contributions for COBRA health care continuation coverage shall be reduced by an amount equal to the cost paid by an active employee for similar coverage under the Company health plan). The amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement or Continuation Benefits provided during one calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement or amount of Continuation Benefits provided during a subsequent calendar year (except with respect to health plan maximums imposed on the reimbursement of expenses referred to in Code Section 105(b)), the right to reimbursement or Continuation Benefits may not be exchanged or substituted for other forms of compensation to Executive, and any reimbursement or payment under the Continuation Benefits arrangements will be paid in accordance with applicable plan terms and no later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive incurred the expense giving rise to such reimbursement or payment.
Continuation Benefits
Continuation Benefits
Benefit Continuation Period
provided
however
COBRA
provided
further
(iii) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Executive breaches any provision of Section 12 hereof, the remaining balances of the Severance Payment, the Prorated Bonus, and any Continuation Benefits shall be forfeited.
Forfeiture
 
(c) "." For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means a "separation from service" as such term is defined under Section 409A. The terms "terminate," "termination," "termination of employment," and variations thereof, when used in this Agreement in connection with Executive's employment, are intended to mean a termination of employment that constitutes a Separation from Service. For purposes of the determination of whether Executive has had a "separation from service" as described under Section 409A, the terms "Company," "employer" and "service recipient" mean Peabody Energy Corporation and any affiliate with which Peabody Energy Corporation would be considered a single employer under Code Section 414(b) or (c), provided that, in applying Code Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Code Section 414(b), the language "at least 50 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears in Code Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3), and in applying Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) that are under common control for purposes of Code Section 414(c), "at least 50 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears in Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2. In addition, where the use of a definition of "Company," "employer" or "service recipient" for purposes of determining a "separation from service" is based upon legitimate business criteria, in applying Code Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Code Section 414(b), the language "at least 20 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears in Code Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3), and in applying Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) that are under common control for purposes of Code Section 414(c), the language "at least 20 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears in Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2.
Separation from Service
Separation from Service
(d) "." For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means:
Good Reason
Good Reason
(i) a reduction, other than a reduction that generally affects all similarly-situated executives and does not exceed ten percent (10%) in one year or fifteen percent (15%) in the aggregate over three (3) consecutive years, by the Company in Executive's Base Salary from that in effect immediately prior to the reduction (in which event the Severance Payment shall be calculated based on Executive's Base Salary in effect immediately prior to any such reduction);
(ii) a reduction, other than a reduction that generally affects all similarly-situated executives, by the Company in Executive's Bonus opportunity from those in effect immediately prior to any such reduction (in which event any portion of the Severance Payment that relates to Bonus shall be calculated based on the Bonus in effect immediately prior to any such reduction);
(iii) a material reduction in the aggregate program of employee benefits and perquisites to which Executive is entitled (other than a reduction that generally affects all executives);
 
(iv) relocation of Executive's primary office by more than 50 miles from the location of Executive's primary office as of the date of this Agreement;
(v) any material diminution or material adverse change in Executive's duties or responsibilities from the time immediately prior to the alleged diminution;
(vi) a breach by the Company of a material provision of this Agreement; or
(vii) a failure on the part of the Company to obtain a written assumption of its obligations under this Agreement by a successor owner of substantially all of the Company's assets in connection with a merger, consolidation, asset sale, liquidation, combination or other similar transaction.
Any amounts due to Executive in connection with a termination of employment shall be computed without giving effect to any changes that give rise to Good Reason.
6.3 .
Voluntary Termination by Executive; Discharge for Cause
(a) In the event that Executive's employment is terminated (i) by the Company for Cause, as hereinafter defined, in which event no advance written notice is required, or (ii) by Executive for a reason other than Good Reason, Disability or death, the Company shall pay to Executive only the Accrued Obligations.
(b) As used herein, the term "" means:
Cause
(i) any material and uncorrected breach by Executive of the terms of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, engaging in action in violation of Section 12 hereof;
(ii) any willful fraud or dishonesty of Executive that has a detrimental effect on (A) the reputation or business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or (B) Executive's reputation or performance of his or her duties to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates;
(iii) a deliberate or willful refusal or failure of Executive to comply with any major corporate policy of the Company or the lawful instructions of Executive's supervisor, which in either case is communicated to Executive in writing; or
(iv) Executive's conviction of, or plea of to, any felony if such conviction results in his or her imprisonment or has a material detrimental effect on the reputation or business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates;
nolo contendere
 
that with respect to clause (i) or (iii) above, Executive shall have ten (10) days following written notice of the conduct which is the basis for the potential termination for Cause within which to cure such conduct to prevent termination for Cause by the Company. If Executive cures the conduct that is the basis for the potential termination for Cause within such ten (10)-day period, the Company's notice of termination shall be deemed withdrawn. Except for violations of Section 12 hereof or termination under Section 6.3(b)(iv) above, only actions, conduct and events occurring during the Term of Employment with the Company shall be the subject of a termination for Cause. In the event that Executive is terminated for failure to meet performance goals, such termination shall be considered a termination without Cause for purposes of his or her right to receive the Severance Payment, the Prorated Bonus and the Continuation Benefits.
provided
6.4 .
Disability
(a) In the event of the Disability (as defined in (b) below) of Executive during the Term of Employment, the Company may terminate Executive's Term of Employment upon written notice to Executive (or Executive's personal representative, if applicable) effective upon the date of receipt thereof (the ""). The Company shall pay to Executive the Accrued Obligations as provided in Section 6.1 hereof and the Prorated Bonus when such bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive's employment terminated.
Disability Commencement Date
(b) The term "," for purposes of this Agreement, generally shall mean Executive's absence from the full-time performance of Executive's duties pursuant to a reasonable determination made in accordance with the Company's long-term disability plan that Executive is disabled and entitled to long-term disability benefits as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness that lasts, or is reasonably expected to last, for at least six (6) months.
Disability
6.5 . In the event of Executive's death during the Term of Employment or at any time thereafter while payments are still owing to Executive under the terms of this Agreement, the Company shall pay to Executive's beneficiary(ies) (to the extent so designated by Executive) or his or her estate (to the extent that no such beneficiary has been designated) the Accrued Obligations as provided in Section 6.1 hereof and the Prorated Bonus when such bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which Executive's employment terminated.
Death
6.6 . Executive understands and agrees that he or she shall not be entitled to any further notice, compensation or damages upon termination of employment under this Agreement, other than amounts specified in Section 4, this Section 6, any ancillary documents or any plan, program or arrangement of the Company.
No Further Notice or Compensation or Damages
6.7 . Upon the termination of Executive's employment for any reason, Executive or his or her estate shall surrender to the Company all correspondence, letters, files, contracts, mailing lists, customer lists, advertising materials, ledgers, supplies, equipment, checks, and all other materials and records of any kind that are the property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, that may be in Executive's possession or under his or her control, including, without limitation, any "soft" copies or computerized or electronic versions thereof.
Executive's Duty to Provide Materials
 
7. . All notices or communications hereunder shall be in writing, addressed as follows:
Notices
To the Company:
Chief Administrative Officer
Peabody Energy Corporation
701 Market Street
St. Louis, Missouri 63101-1826
To Executive at the most recent address set forth in the Company's personnel records.
Any such notice or communication shall be delivered by hand or by courier or sent certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as above (or to such other address as such party may designate in a notice duly delivered as described above), and the third business day after the actual date of sending shall constitute the time at which notice was given.
8. . If any provision of this Agreement is declared to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
9. . Neither this Agreement nor any rights or obligations hereunder shall be assignable or otherwise subject to hypothecation by Executive (except by will or by operation of the laws of intestate succession) or by the Company, except that the Company may assign this Agreement, in writing, to any successor (whether by merger, purchase, spin-off or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the stock, assets or businesses of the Company. This Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the heirs and representatives of Executive and the permitted assigns and successors of the Company.
Assignment
10. . This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the parties hereto.
Amendment
11. .
Code Section 409A Compliance
11.1 This Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A and shall, to the extent practicable, be construed in accordance therewith. Accordingly, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Company determines that Executive is a "specified employee" (as defined in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i)) at the time of his or her Separation from Service and any amount payable to Executive under this Agreement is a deferral of compensation subject to the additional tax described in Code Section 409A(a)(1)(B) and would be considered a payment upon Executive's Separation from Service, then such amount shall not be paid before the date that is the earlier of (a) six (6) months and one (1) day after Executive's Separation from Service or (b) Executive's death (the ""). Upon the expiration of the Delay Period, the initial payment following the Delay Period shall include a lump sum payment equal to those payments that otherwise would have been paid if the delay had not applied, and any remaining payments due shall be payable in accordance with their original payment schedule.
Delay Period
 
11.2 If either party to this Agreement reasonably determines that any amount payable pursuant to this Agreement would result in adverse tax consequences under Section 409A (including, but not limited to, the additional tax described in Code Section 409A(a)(1)(B)), then such party shall deliver written notice of such determination to the other party, and the parties hereby agree to work in good faith to amend this Agreement so it (a) is exempt from, or compliant with, the requirements of Section 409A and (b) preserves as nearly as possible the original intent and economic effect of the affected provisions.
12. .
Nondisclosure of Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Non-Solicitation
12.1 Executive, during the Term of Employment and thereafter, will not, directly or indirectly, use for himself or herself or use for, or disclose to, any party other than the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company (other than in the ordinary course of Executive's duties for the benefit of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company), any secret or confidential information regarding the business or property of the Company or its subsidiaries or regarding any secret or confidential apparatus, process, system, or other method at any time used, developed, acquired, discovered or investigated by or for the Company or its subsidiaries, whether or not developed, acquired, discovered or investigated by Executive. At the termination of Executive's employment or at any other time the Company or any of its subsidiaries may request, Executive shall promptly deliver to the Company all memoranda, notes, records, plats, sketches, plans or other documents (including, without limitation, any "soft" copies or computerized or electronic versions thereof) made by, compiled by, delivered to, or otherwise acquired by Executive concerning the business or properties of the Company or its subsidiaries or any secret or confidential product, apparatus or process used developed, acquired or investigated by the Company or its subsidiaries.
12.2 In consideration of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, Executive agrees that during his or her employment with the Company and (a) for a period of one (1) year thereafter, without the prior written consent of the Chairman and CEO, he or she shall not, directly or indirectly, as principal, manager, agent, consultant, officer, stockholder, partner, investor, lender or employee or in any other capacity, carry on, be engaged in or have any financial interest in, any entity which is in competition with the business of the Company or its subsidiaries; , , that this clause (a) shall not apply if the Company does not renew this Agreement and terminates Executive's employment and Executive does not receive severance benefits from the Company; and (b) for a period of two (2) years thereafter, without the prior written consent of the Chairman and CEO, he or she shall not, on his or her own behalf or on behalf of any person, firm or company, directly or indirectly, solicit or offer employment to any person who is or has been employed by the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding such solicitation.
provided
however
12.3 For purposes of this Section 12, an entity shall be deemed to be in competition with the Company if it is principally involved in the purchase, sale or other dealing in any property or the rendering of any service purchased, sold, dealt in or rendered by the
 
Company as a part of the business of the Company within the same geographic area in which the Company effects such sales or dealings or renders such services. Notwithstanding this Section 12.3 or Section 12.2, nothing herein shall be construed so as to preclude Executive from investing in any publicly or privately held company, provided that Executive's beneficial ownership of any class of securities of an entity in competition with the Company does not exceed five percent (5%) (or such higher percentage approved in writing by the Chairman and CEO) of the outstanding securities of such class.
12.4 Executive agrees that the covenant not to compete and the covenant not to solicit are reasonable under the circumstances and will not interfere with his or her ability to earn a living or otherwise to meet his or her financial obligations. Executive and the Company agree that if in the opinion of any court of competent jurisdiction such restraint is not reasonable in any respect, such court shall have the right, power and authority to excise or modify such provision or provisions of this covenant which appear unreasonable and to enforce the remainder of the covenant as so amended. Executive agrees that any breach of the covenants contained in this Section 12 would irreparably injure the Company. Accordingly, Executive agrees that, in the event that a court enjoins Executive from any activity prohibited by this Section 12, the Company may, in addition to pursuing any other remedies it may have in law or in equity, cease making any payments otherwise required by this Agreement and obtain an injunction against Executive from any court having jurisdiction over the matter restraining any further violation of this Agreement by Executive.
13. . Executive shall be entitled to select (and change, to the extent permitted under any applicable law) a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following Executive's death, and may change such election, in either case by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of his or her incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his or her beneficiary, estate or other legal representative. Any reference to the masculine gender in this Agreement shall include, where appropriate, the feminine.
Beneficiaries; References
14. . Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement (other than an action to enforce the covenants in Section 12 hereof) or any ancillary documents shall be resolved by arbitration in St. Louis, Missouri. Three arbitrators shall be selected, and arbitration shall be conducted, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrators shall have the discretion to award the cost of arbitration, arbitrators' fees and the respective attorneys' fees of each party between the parties as they see fit. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 14 to the contrary, payments made under this Section 14 that are provided during one calendar year shall not affect the amount of such payments provided during a subsequent calendar year, payments under this Section 14 may not be exchanged or substituted for other forms of compensation to Executive, and any such payment will be paid within sixty (60) days after Executive prevails, but in no event later than the last day of Executive's taxable year following the taxable year in which he or she incurred the expense giving rise to such payment.
Dispute Resolution
 
15. . This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of Missouri, without reference to rules relating to conflicts of law.
Governing Law
16. . This Agreement and any ancillary documents contain the entire understanding between the parties hereto and this Agreement, except as provided in an ancillary document, supersedes in all respects any prior or other agreement or understanding, written or oral, between the Company, any affiliate of the Company or any predecessor of the Company or affiliate of the Company and Executive.
Effect on Prior Agreements
17. . The Company shall be entitled to withhold from payments to or on behalf of Executive any amount of tax withholding required by law.
Withholding
18. . All dollar amounts or references contained in this Agreement and any ancillary document refer to the United States dollar.
Currency
19. . Notwithstanding the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the applicable provisions of this Agreement (such as Sections 5 through 20) shall remain in effect as long as is reasonably necessary to give effect thereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
Survival
20. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original.
Counterparts
 
 
 
This Agreement ("Agreement") will confirm your termination/resignation from Peabody Energy Corporation (the "Company") on ("Termination Date").
DATE OF TERMINATION
For the consideration set forth in that certain Employment Agreement between you and the Company dated as of (your "Employment Agreement"), which constitute monies and benefits to which you are not already entitled, you agree as follows:
[INSERT DATE OF EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT]
 
 
 
against the Releasees that you have released in this Agreement. .
You understand and acknowledge that, except as provided in paragraph 7 and for claims arising after the date hereof, the provisions of this Paragraph mean that you cannot bring a lawsuit against the Releasees for any reason
 
 
 
 
 
 
acknowledge and agree that your participation in any of the Company's disability, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment, and/or other related plans shall cease in accordance with the terms of the respective plan, and that you have been informed that the Company's Long Term Disability plan requires as a condition of participation that the employee be "actively at work" and that you will not, therefore, be eligible to continue to participate in such plan after the Termination Date, except as a result of your exercising any conversion rights as contained in the plan. Furthermore, nothing in this Release modifies or affects any rights that you have (i) to be indemnified and held harmless for your acts and omissions to act as an employee of the Company under any insurance policy procured and maintained by the Company, any indemnification agreement with or indemnification policy of the Company or of any other party, as in effect at any time and from time to time (including, but not limited to, the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws, Article IV, Indemnification), or under applicable law, (ii) to be paid amounts due pursuant to, and to be provided benefits required to be provided by your Employment Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You agree and recognize that, subject to the limited revocation provisions of paragraph 5 hereof, this Agreement is final and binding. You further agree that, if you breach any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, you will not be entitled to receive the monies and benefits described in this Agreement and your Employment Agreement and that the Companies have the right to seek reimbursement for all amounts previously paid to you.
 
 
 
 


