FILE:BTU/BTU-8K-20120405165753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On April 1, 2012, Peabody Energy Australia Coal Pty Limited ("PEAC"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Peabody Energy Corporation (the "Company"), entered into an executive service agreement with Eric Ford pursuant to which Mr. Ford has agreed to relocate to Australia and be employed by PEAC as President-Australia and Managing Director. Mr. Ford will continue to serve as President-Australia of the Company.
Simultaneously with the commencement of his employment with PEAC on April 1, 2012, Mr. Ford's employment with the Company and the restated employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Ford dated December 31, 2008 were terminated. This termination does not entitle Mr. Ford to any payment of benefits under the restated employment agreement.
The executive service agreement provides for a two-year term, commencing on April 1, 2012. On each day of the term, the term will be extended by one additional day unless Mr. Ford's employment has been terminated in accordance with the executive service agreement. Mr. Ford's employment may be terminated by him or by PEAC for any reason at any time during the term of the executive service agreement by written notice to the other party of at least 30 days in advance of the date of termination of employment.
The executive service agreement describes the compensation arrangements applicable to Mr. Ford during his employment with PEAC, which includes:
 
 
 
 
Following a termination of employment for any reason during the term of employment, Mr. Ford will be entitled to receive: (1) base salary accrued but unpaid prior to such termination; (2) any reimbursable business expenses not yet reimbursed; (3) payment in respect of accrued but unused annual leave and long service leave entitlements as of the date of such termination; (4) any benefits accrued and vested under any of PEAC's employee benefit programs, plans and practices (other than long-term incentive plan or bonus entitlements) on or prior to the date of termination; and (5) an amount of US$800,000 as an additional lump sum payment already accrued to him for services previously performed in the U.S. In addition:
 
 
 
 
The executive service agreement provides for confidentiality obligations during and following Mr. Ford's employment and includes noncompetition provisions that are effective during, and for one year following, his employment, and nonsolicitation provisions that are effective during, and for two years following, his employment.
The foregoing description is only a summary of certain provisions of the executive service agreement, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the executive service agreement itself, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and which is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Executive Service Agreement
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 2
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 3
Details
 
Parties
 
 
Background
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 4
Agreed terms
 
 
In this agreement:
means:
Cause
 
 
 
 
means:
Good Reason
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means PEC and its Related Bodies Corporate.
Peabody Energy Group
means your Restated Employment Agreement with PEC dated 31 December 2008.
Restated Employment Agreement
and have the meanings given to those terms by the (Cth).
Related Body Corporate
Associated Entity
Corporations Act 2001
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 5
means your resignation in circumstances where you have made a decision to retire substantially from the Peabody Energy Group Workforce, and you have advised the Company in writing of that intention at least 30 days in advance of the effective retirement date.
Retirement
means the date your employment ends in any of the circumstances contemplated by clause 13 of this agreement.
Termination Date
 
In this agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You will be employed by the Company as President  Australia and Managing Director.
 
The commencement date of this agreement will be 1 April 2012. Simultaneously with the commencement of your employment with the Company, your Restated Employment Agreement and employment with PEC will terminate. You acknowledge and agree that because you are relocating and continuing employment within the Peabody Energy Group that the termination of your Restated Employment Agreement and your employment with PEC will not entitle you to any payment of benefits under the Restated Employment Agreement.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As an Australian employee, you will be entitled to the minimum employment benefits applicable to your position under the . This includes leave entitlements and minimum notice and severance entitlements.
Fair Work Act 2009
More detail about the standard benefits applicable to your position is set out in Appendix A, which forms part of this Agreement.
 
(a) You will have continuity of service for all purposes (including entitlements you have under the Australian National Employment Standards), on the basis of your entire history within the Peabody Energy Group.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 7
 
 
 
 
10. Remuneration
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 8
 
 
10.4 Long-Term Incentive Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Intellectual Property Rights
 
 
12. Privacy Statement
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 9
All your personal information may be shared within the Peabody Energy Group where the use is reasonably related to your employment.
 
 
13. Termination of Employment
13.1 Notice of Termination
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this agreement, your employment may be terminated by you or by the Company for any reason at any time during the Term by written notice to the other party of at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of termination of your employment. If the Company terminates your employment by giving written notice, it may elect to pay you in lieu of part or all of the notice period, in which case, unless otherwise agreed, the Termination Date will be the date that payment is made. The Company may also require you to take paid leave or to relieve you of some or all of your responsibilities during all or part of your notice period.
13.2 Payment of Accrued Obligations
If your employment is terminated for any reason during the Employment Term, then at a minimum the Company shall pay to you the following (Accrued Obligations):
(a) within five (5) business days following the Termination Date, a lump sum that includes:
 
 
 
 
 
13.3 Additional payment of benefits upon Retirement
 
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.5 Voluntary Termination by You and Termination for Cause
 
 
 
the Company shall pay to you only your Accrued Obligations.
 
 
 
 
 
13.6 Termination for Disability
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 12
 
 
 
with such Bonus Entitlements to be paid when annual bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which your employment is terminated.
13.7 Benefits payable upon Death
In the event of your death during your employment or at any time thereafter while payments are still owing to you under the terms of this agreement, the Company shall pay to your beneficiary(ies) (to the extent lawfully and effectively designated by you) or your estate (to the extent that no such beneficiary has been lawfully and effectively designated) to the extent they remain unpaid at the date of your Death:
 
 
 
with such Bonus Entitlements to be paid when annual bonuses are paid to other senior executives of the Company, but in no event later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which your employment is terminated.
13.8 No Further Notice or Compensation or Damages
You will not be entitled to any further notice, compensation or damages upon termination of employment under this agreement, other than amounts specified in this agreement.
 
Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you or your estate shall surrender to the Company all correspondence, letters, files, contracts, mailing lists, customer lists, advertising materials, ledgers, supplies, equipment, checks, and all other materials and records of any kind that are the property of the Company or any of its Related Bodies Corporate or Associated Entities, that may be in your possession or under your control, including, without limitation, any "soft" copies or computerized or electronic versions thereof.
 
You will be entitled to reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred in regard to work-related expenses, subject to the provision of suitable supporting evidence.
 
The Company, after advising you, may make deductions from your pay or leave entitlement in the event of:
 
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 13
 
16. Tax Return Preparation
The Company will cover the expense for the preparation of your annual income tax return during the Term, subject to prevailing Company policy regarding documentation of such expense, provided that reimbursement of such expenses shall be made promptly and in no event later than December 31 of the year following the year in which such expenses were incurred, the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any year shall not affect the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other year and no such right to reimbursement shall be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
 
For the purpose of this agreement, Confidential Information means any information of which you become aware or which comes into your possession or control in the course of carrying out your duties under this agreement or in the course of any other activity or role which you undertake as an executive or officer within the Peabody Energy Group which is confidential to the Peabody Energy Group or any member of it, including information which relates to the business affairs of members of the Peabody Energy Group, or their customers, suppliers, joint venture partners or business associates anywhere in the world.
 
During the Term and thereafter, you will not, directly or indirectly, use for yourself or use for, or disclose to, any party other than the Company (other than in the ordinary course of your duties for the benefit of the Company or any Related Body Corporate or Associated Entity), any Confidential Information. At the termination of your employment or at any other time the Company may request, you shall promptly deliver to the Company all memoranda, notes, records, plats, sketches, plans or other documents (including, without limitation, any "soft" copies or computerized or electronic versions thereof) made by, compiled by, delivered to, or otherwise acquired by you which are the property of a member of the Peabody Energy Group or which contain or refer to Confidential Information.
 
In consideration of your benefits and entitlements under this agreement, you agree that during the Term and (i) for a period of one (1) year thereafter, without the prior written consent of the Chairman and CEO of PEC, you will not, directly or indirectly, as principal, manager, agent, consultant, officer, stockholder, partner, investor, lender or employee or in any other capacity, carry on, be engaged in or have any financial interest in, any entity which is in competition with the business of Peabody Energy Group and (ii) for a period of two (2) years thereafter, without the prior written consent of the Chairman and CEO of PEC, you shall not, on your own behalf or on behalf of any person, firm or company, directly or indirectly, solicit or offer employment to any person who is or has been employed by the Company or its Related Bodies Corporate at any time during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding such solicitation.
 
For purposes of this clause, an entity shall be deemed to be in competition with the Peabody Energy Group if it is principally involved in the winning, exploration, purchase, sale or other
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 14
dealing in any commodity or property or the rendering of any service purchased, sold, dealt in or rendered by the Peabody Energy Group as a part of the business of the Peabody Energy Group within the same geographic area in which the Peabody Energy Group carries out such activity. Notwithstanding this clause, nothing herein shall be construed so as to preclude you from investing in any publicly or privately held company, provided your beneficial ownership of any class of securities of an entity in competition with the Company does not exceed five percent (5%) (or such higher percentage approved in writing by the Chairman and CEO) of the outstanding securities of such class.
 
You agree that the covenant not to compete and the covenant not to solicit are reasonable under the circumstances and will not unreasonably interfere with your ability to earn a living or otherwise to meet your financial obligations. You and the Company agree that if in the opinion of any court of competent jurisdiction such restraint is not reasonable in any respect, such court shall have the right, power and authority to excise or modify such provision or provisions of this covenant which appear unreasonable and to enforce the remainder of the covenant as so amended. You agree that any breach of the covenants contained in this clause would irreparably injure the Company. Accordingly, you agree that, in the event that a court enjoins you from any activity prohibited by this clause, the Company may, in addition to pursuing any other remedies it may have in law or in equity, cease making any payments otherwise required by this agreement to be made to you.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 15
The governing law of this agreement is the law of Queensland, Australia.
 
All notices or communications hereunder shall be in writing, addressed as follows:
To the Company:
Vice President and Chief Legal Officer Australia
Peabody Energy Australia Coal Pty Ltd
13/259 Queen Street, Brisbane 4000
Australia
With a copy to:
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Peabody Energy Corporation
701 Market Street, Suite 900
St. Louis, Missouri 63101-1826
To you at the most recent address set forth in the Company's personnel records.
Any such notice or communication shall be delivered by hand or by courier or sent certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as above (or to such other address as such party may designate in a notice duly delivered as described above), and the third business day after the actual date of sending shall constitute the time at which notice was given.
 
If any provision of this agreement is declared to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, which shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Neither this agreement nor any rights or obligations hereunder shall be assignable or otherwise subject to hypothecation by you (except by will or by operation of the laws of intestate succession) or by the Company, except that the Company may assign this agreement, in writing, to any successor (whether by merger, purchase, spin-off or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the stock, assets or businesses of the Company. This agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your heirs and representatives and the permitted assigns and successors of the Company to the extent it provides for payments to you or the protection or return of Confidential Information as Company property, including Intellectual Property.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 16
This agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the parties hereto. PEC shall be required to consent in writing to any amendment of this agreement.
 
To the extent permitted by law, you shall be entitled to select (and change, to the extent permitted under any applicable law) a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following your death, and may change such election, in either case by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of your death or a judicial determination of your incompetence, reference in this agreement to you shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to your beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
Nothing in this clause requires the Company to give effect to a direction which might cause the Company to breach any law or which might cause the Company to incur an additional liability, including a liability to pay or remit tax.
 
This agreement and any ancillary documents referred to this agreement contains the entire agreement understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
The Company shall be entitled to withhold from payments to or on your behalf any amount of tax withholding required by law.
 
The rights and obligations in clauses 11, 12, 13 and 1828 will survive the termination of your employment or this agreement in any circumstances.
 
This agreement may be executed in two counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 17
Appendix A  Benefits and entitlements
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employees accrue long service leave at the rate of 8.6667 weeks for each ten years of continuous service.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company will provide a facility, using our nominated lease provider, under which you can novate a motor vehicle of your choice under a lease arrangement. The vehicle will be registered, insured, serviced, repaired and fuelled under lease arrangements during the term of your employment. If you elect to enter into this arrangement your Base Salary may be reduced by an appropriate salary sacrifice' amount.
 
In your role, the Company will provide you with certain Company issued equipment, such as an iPad, mobile phone or laptop. Company issued equipment is for business and prudent personal use only. It will be expected that at all times you will be able to be contacted for Company business.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 18
You will be entitled to two days' paid leave payable at your Base Annualised Salary for each occasion when a member of your immediate family or household:
 
 
 
 
In the event you are required to attend for Jury Service, you shall be paid your Base Salary less the total of your jury service pay for the first 10 days of your absence.
 
"Parental Leave" means adoption leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, and is a combination of paid and unpaid leave for a maximum period of up to 52 weeks. Parental Leave is governed by the and Company's Parental Leave policy.
Fair Work Act 2009
 
Public Holidays as provided for in relevant legislation and gazetted for the local government area will be observed.
 
The Company shall provide you with employee benefits and perquisites at a level (a) commensurate with your position in the Company and (b) at least as favourable to you as the arrangements the Company provides to its other senior executives that are in effect and open to new participants on the Commencement Date. You will be entitled to the Company's standard directors and officers insurance and/or an indemnification agreement that covers claims arising out of actions or inactions occurring during the Term.
 
Your ongoing employment will be subject to maintaining your health and fitness at a level relevant to your role and work requirements. You may be required to undergo periodic medical examinations to monitor your fitness in addition to any requirements under the legislation.
 
The Company will endeavour to provide you with life insurance coverage procured in Australia in the amount of $1,000,000.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 19
 
 
 
The Company will provide equipment and facilities it considers necessary for you to perform your duties. In performing your duties you are required to work in a manner that will not injure or put at risk yourself, fellow employees or any other person on site. You may be required to attend an induction course prior to commencing work on a site. You are required to wear and use accident prevention equipment and protective clothing supplied by the company for the purpose for which it is supplied, at all times whilst on site. Should you be required to drive motor vehicles to execute your duties, you must maintain a current licence appropriate for the class of vehicle.
 
You agree to undergo drug, alcohol and substance abuse testing as required by the Company in accordance with its policies and procedures.
 
You are required to actively participate in regular Performance Reviews (both for yourself and subordinate employees as required) in accordance with the Peabody Energy Group's usual procedures.
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 20
Signing page
as an agreement.
EXECUTED
 
 
Executive Service Agreement | page 21


