FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20040218215929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
Item 5. Other Events
 
On February 17, 2004, the Company issued two press releases, the first of which announced its filing of a registration statement with respect to a potential future offering of shares of its common stock and the other of which announced the change of the Company's name from "CBRE Holding, Inc." to "CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc." Copies of these two press releases are filed as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, to this report.
 
Item 7. Exhibits
 
 
The following are furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Steve Iaco
212 984-6535
 
 
 CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. has filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering (IPO) of its common stock, the Company announced today.
Los Angeles, CA, February 17, 2004
 
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. is the parent company of CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., the world's largest commercial real estate services firm in terms of 2002 revenue, with 220 offices in 48 countries worldwide.
 
The IPO is expected to consist of newly issued shares being offered by the Company and secondary shares offered by affiliates of Blum Capital Partners, L.P. and other selling stockholders. In addition, the Company expects that the selling stockholders will grant the underwriters an option to purchase from them additional common stock to cover over-allotments, if any.
 
The offering is being made through an underwriting syndicate led by Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., which will act as joint book-running managers. When available, a copy of the prospectus relating to the offering may be obtained by contacting:
 
 
 
A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold, nor may offers to buy be accepted, prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
 
About CB Richard Ellis
 
Headquartered in Los Angeles, CB Richard Ellis is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm in terms of 2002 revenues. With approximately 13,500 employees, the company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through 220 offices worldwide.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEFebruary 17, 2004
 
For further information:
 
Debbie Fan, Treasurer
CB Richard Ellis
310.354.5045
Debbie.Fan@cbre.com
 
 
Los Angeles, CA (February 17, 2004)  Effective February 13, 2004, CBRE Holding, Inc, parent corporation of CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., has changed its name to
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc.
 
To view the company's fourth quarter 2003 earnings on Wednesday, February 18, 2003, on the national wire services, please search under the name, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc.
 
Headquartered in Los Angeles, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. is the world's leading commercial real estate services firm. With approximately 13,500 employees, the company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 220 offices worldwide. The company's core services include property sales, leasing and management; corporate services; facilities and project management; mortgage banking; investment management; capital markets; appraisal and valuation; research; and consulting. For more information, visit the company's Web site at
www.cbre.com.


