FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20040614065011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 10, 2004, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had priced an underwritten initial public offering of its Class A Common Stock (the "Common Stock"). A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
A registration statement relating to the Common Stock has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and has been declared effective. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE . June 10, 2004
 
 
 
 CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. announced today the pricing of its initial public offering of Class A common stock at $19.00 per share. Of the 24,000,000 shares sold in the offering, 7,726,764 shares are being offered by the Company and 16,273,236 shares are being offered by selling stockholders. The Company's Class A common stock is expected to begin trading today on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CBG." The selling stockholders have granted the underwriters the right to purchase up to an additional 3,600,000 shares to cover over-allotments at the initial public offering price.
Los Angeles, CA, June 10, 2004
 
The Company expects to receive net proceeds, before its out-of-pocket expenses, of approximately $138 million as a result of the offering. The Company will not receive any of the proceeds from the shares sold by the selling stockholders.
 
The offering was made though an underwriting syndicate led by Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., acting as joint book-running managers. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated acted as co-managers.
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration of qualification under the securities
Page 2
 
laws of any such state or jurisdiction. The offering of these securities is made only by means of a prospectus, copies of which may be obtained by contacting the prospectus department of Credit Suisse First Boston, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010-3629 or the prospectus department of Citigroup Global Markets, Brooklyn Army Terminal, 140 58
th
Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220.
 
About CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc.
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm in terms of 2003 revenue, with 220 offices in 48 countries worldwide. Please visit our Web site at www.cbre.com.
 


