FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20050921091717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On September 20, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company appointed former U.S. Senator Thomas A. Daschle to serve as a member of the Board, effective immediately.  Senator Daschle has not been appointed to serve on any Board committee at this time.  A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Senator Daschle to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
99.1  Press release, dated September 20, 2005, announcing the appointment of Senator Thomas Daschle to the Company's Board of Directors.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Los Angeles, CA  September 21, 2005  CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced that former U.S. Senator Thomas A. Daschle has joined the Company's Board of Directors.
 
Senator Daschle is Special Policy Advisor in the Washington, D.C. office of the prominent law firm Alston & Bird, where he advises clients on public policy issues with a special emphasis on financial services, health care, energy, telecommunications, taxes, trade and international matters.
 
"It is an honor to have Tom Daschle join our Board," said Brett White, President and Chief Executive Officer of CB Richard Ellis Group.  "We will benefit tremendously from Tom's insight and experience with economic issues, international affairs and other issues.  He will be an asset to our Board as we continue to grow our real estate services franchise on a global basis."
 
Senator Daschle served the state of South Dakota and the United States for more than 25 years.  He was elected to the House of Representatives in 1978, where he served four terms, and to the Senate in 1986.  He was re-elected in 1992 and 1998.
 
In his first year as a senator, Senator Daschle was appointed to the powerful Senate Finance Committee, an unusual honor for a freshman.  In 1988, he was named the first-ever co-chair of the Democratic Policy Committee, making him the first South Dakotan ever to hold a Senate leadership position.  He became Senate Minority Leader in 1994 and Senate Majority Leader in 2001.
 
Senator Daschle's appointment brings the CB Richard Ellis Board to a total of 11 directors.  Senator Daschle joins the following independent, non-employee directors on CB Richard Ellis' Board of Directors:  Richard C. Blum, Chairman, Jeffrey A. Cozad, Patrice Marie Daniels, Bradford M. Freeman, Michael Kantor, Frederic V. Malek, and Gary L. Wilson.
The entire CB Richard Ellis Board, including Senator Daschle, will stand for election at the Company's next annual shareholders meeting in 2006.
 
About CB Richard Ellis
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a FORTUNE 1000 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2004 revenue). With approximately 13,500 employees, the Company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 200 offices worldwide (excluding affiliate and partner offices).  The Company's core services include property sales, leasing and management; corporate services; facilities and project management; mortgage banking; investment management; appraisal and valuation; research and consulting. Please visit our Web site at www.cbre.com.


