FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20050104155444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Effective January 1, 2005, Calvin W. Frese, Jr. was appointed President of the Company's Americas Operations, which is the Company's largest geographic operation.  Mr. Frese, 47, previously served as the Company's Chief Operating Officer of the Americas beginning in 2001, and prior to that as its Executive Managing Director of the Central Region from 1998 to 2001.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
99.1  Press release of the Company, dated January 4, 2005.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
CB Richard Ellis Names President of the Americas
 
Cal Frese to Oversee Company's Largest Operation
 
 CB Richard Ellis, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a leading global commercial real estate services company, today announced that Calvin W. Frese, Jr. has been appointed President of the Company's Americas operations.   Mr. Frese will report to Brett White, President of CB Richard Ellis.
Los Angeles, CA, January 4, 2005
 
The Americas, encompassing the United States, Canada and Latin America, is the Company's largest geographic operation.  These operations comprise revenues of approximately $1.5 billion.  Previously, Mr. Frese was Chief Operating Officer of the Americas.
 
In his new role, Mr. Frese will have responsibility for all revenue-producing business lines in the Americas with the exception of CB Richard Ellis Investors (the firm's investment management division) and CBRE Mortgage Brokerage.
 
"Cal personifies the high standards of excellence that are the core values of CBRE's culture," said Mr. White. "Our America's operation is the industry's pacesetter and under the leadership of Cal and his strong management team, we are poised for even greater success in the future."
 
Prior to assuming his role as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Frese served as Executive Managing Director of CB Richard Ellis' Central Region, and was responsible for overseeing business operations in 35 cities, with over 2,000 employees. From 1989 to 1998, he was General Partner and Chief Operating Officer of Whittier Partners, a New England-based full-service real estate company and joint venture partner of CB Richard Ellis.
Mr. Frese also gained considerable financial management and real estate experience in the 1980s as Senior Vice President of Cabot, Cabot & Forbes, a real estate development company, and as a certified public accountant for Arthur Andersen & Company.
 
 
About CB Richard Ellis
Headquartered in Los Angeles, CB Richard Ellis is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2003 revenue). With approximately 13,500 employees, the company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 220 offices worldwide (excluding affiliate and partner offices). The company's core services include property sales, leasing and management; corporate services; facilities and project management; mortgage banking; investment management; appraisal and valuation; research; and consulting.  For more information, visit the company's Web site at www.cbre.com.


