FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20050527170621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
The Company issued a press release on May 27, 2005 to provide notice of a correction in its Proxy Statement for the June 2, 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. A copy of this release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The exhibit listed below is being furnished with this Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  MAY 27, 2005
 
 
 
 CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced that it has filed a Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The sole purpose of the filing was to correct information contained on page 8 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's June 2, 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading "Board Meetings". The Proxy Statement incorrectly stated that Jeffrey Cozad attended 50% of the Compensation Committee meetings while he was a member of such Committee. In fact, Mr. Cozad attended all meetings of the Compensation Committee that took place while he was a member in 2004. As such, his attendance record was not required to be disclosed in the Proxy Statement. The Proxy Statement should have instead reflected that Board Chairperson Richard C. Blum missed the one meeting of the Compensation Committee held while he was a member in 2004. Mr. Blum rotated off the Compensation Committee shortly after that meeting and was replaced by Mr. Cozad.
Los Angeles, May 27, 2005
 
About CB Richard Ellis
 
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a FORTUNE 1000 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2004 revenue). With approximately 13,500 employees, the company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 200 offices worldwide (excluding affiliate and partner offices). The company's core services include property sales, leasing and management; corporate services; facilities and project management; mortgage banking; investment management; appraisal and valuation; research and consulting. Please visit our Web site at .
www.cbre.com


