FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20061023170917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Report") of CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (the "Company"), originally filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October 20, 2006 is solely for the purpose of correcting the date set forth on the cover of the Report.
Except as expressly stated above, this Form 8-K/A is identical to the Report and does not reflect any events occurring after the date of the Report as filed with the SEC on October 20, 2006, or otherwise modify or update any of the information contained therein.
 
On October 18, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company elected Jane Su to serve as a member of the Board, effective immediately. Ms. Su has not been appointed to serve on any Board committee at this time.
Ms. Su has been a partner at Blum Capital Partners, L.P. since May 2006. Ms. Su served as a vice president of Blum Capital Partners since 2002. Prior to joining Blum Capital Partners, Ms. Su was a principal of Banc of America Equity Partners  Asia from 1996 to 2000. She holds a B.A. from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Pursuant to a Securityholders' Agreement with certain of the Company's stockholders, the Company's stockholders affiliated with Blum Capital Partners, L.P. are entitled to nominate a percentage of the total number of directors that is equivalent to the percentage of the outstanding common stock beneficially owned by these stockholders, with this percentage of directors rounded up to the nearest whole number of directors. Accordingly, these stockholders have nominated Ms. Su to the Board.
In addition, in May 2006, Blum Strategic Partners, LP, Blum Strategic Partners II, LP and Blum Strategic Partners II GmbH & Co. KG, collectively sold 6,990,000 shares, as adjusted for the Company's three for one stock split, of the Company's common stock pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933. The general partner of Blum Strategic Partners, LP is Blum Strategic GP, LLC and the general partner of Blum Strategic Partners II, LP and the managing limited partner of Blum Strategic Partners II GmbH & Co. KP is Blum Strategic GP II, LLC. Ms. Su is a member of Blum Strategic GP, LLC and Blum Strategic GP II, LLC.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


