FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20070208170316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
On February 2, 2007, the Company and Robert Blain, President of Asia-Pacific Operations, entered into a Mutual Termination Agreement, which terminated Mr. Blain's Offer of Employment letter, dated January 23, 2002, as amended, but did not alter or modify Mr. Blain's employment status, current position or compensation with the Company.
 
On February 2, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved cash bonuses for the Company's executive officers, based on achievement of Company financial performance and individual operational objectives and calculated in accordance with previously disclosed targets and formulas under the Company's Executive Bonus Plan. In addition, the Compensation Committee approved a cash bonus of $1.5 million to Robert E. Sulentic, who joined the Company as Group President, Development Services, Asia-Pacific and EMEA Operations upon the acquisition of the Trammell Crow Company ("Trammell Crow") on December 20, 2006. Mr. Sulentic's cash bonus was determined in the first instance by former members of Trammell Crow's Compensation Committee in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger between the Company, Trammell Crow and A-2 Acquisition Corp. This cash bonus was based on targets and performance criteria established in 2006 by the Trammell Crow Compensation Committee and on Mr. Sulentic's performance as the chief executive officer of Trammell Crow.
The Company intends to provide additional information regarding the compensation awarded to its named executive officers for the year ended December 31, 2006 in the proxy statement for the Company's 2007 annual meeting.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


