FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20071129060214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
On November 28, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors approved an expansion of its previously approved share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company may repurchase up to $635 million of its outstanding common stock. This amount includes the $500 million previously authorized. The authorization permits the shares to be repurchased in open market or negotiated transactions or pursuant to a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended. The authorization will be utilized at management's discretion. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The exhibit listed below is being furnished with this Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Los Angeles, CA, November 28, 2007  CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced an expansion of its previously-announced share repurchase program. The Company's Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $635 million of its outstanding shares of common stock. This amount includes the $500 million previously authorized.
The shares have been and will be repurchased from time to time at management's discretion at prevailing market prices through open-market or privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable federal securities laws or pursuant to a written trading plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's management will determine the timing and amount of any repurchases based on their evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors. The share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
About CB Richard Ellis
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2006 revenue). With over 24,000 employees, the Company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 300 offices worldwide (excluding affiliate and partner offices). CB Richard Ellis offers strategic advice and execution for property sales and leasing; corporate services; property, facilities and project management; mortgage banking; appraisal and valuation; development services; investment management; and research and consulting. In 2007, CB Richard Ellis was named one of the 50 "best in class" companies by , and one of the 100 fastest growing companies by . Please visit our Web site at www.cbre.com.
BusinessWeek
Fortune
"Safe Harbor" Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the Company's intent to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this release and, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any of them to reflect actual results, any changes in expectations or any change in events. If the Company does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that it will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: interest rates; any general economic recession domestically or internationally; general conditions of financial liquidity; our levels of borrowing; and our free cash flow from time to time.
Additional information concerning factors that may influence the Company's decision to implement the share repurchase program is discussed under "Risk Factors", "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, as well as in the Company's press releases and other periodic filings with the SEC. Such filings are available publicly and may be obtained off the Company's Web site at or upon request from the CB Richard Ellis Investor Relations Department at .
www.cbre.com
investorrelations@cbre.com
 


