FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20081205134504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
o
 
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
 
(a)           On December 2, 2008, Senator Thomas A. Daschle resigned from the Company's Board of Directors in order to assist President-elect Barack Obama's Transition Team.
 
 
(a)           On December 3, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to, and restated, the Company's Amended and Restated By-Laws (the "Amended and Restated By-Laws"). The material changes effected by the adoption of the Amended and Restated By-Laws were to (i) expand the information required to be provided by any stockholder who proposes director nominations or any other business for consideration at a meeting of stockholders, including disclosure of any hedging activity, and to require the periodic updating of such information, (ii) update the advance notice provisions to ensure that such provisions are clear and unambiguous and that compliance with the notice procedures set forth in the Amended and Restated By-Laws is the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business at a meeting of stockholders, and (iii) make certain conforming changes correcting inconsistencies. The Amended and Restated By-Laws became effective on December 3, 2008.
 
A copy of the Amended and Restated By-Laws is attached as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED
 
BY-LAWS
 
OF
 
CB RICHARD ELLIS GROUP, INC.
 
(the "Corporation")
 
dated December 3, 2008
 
 
ARTICLE I.
 
STOCKHOLDERS
 
Section 1.   .  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on such date, and at such time and place within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
 
Section 2.   .  Special meetings of the stockholders shall be called at any time by the Secretary or any other officer, whenever directed by the Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the holders of at least a majority in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting.  The purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting shall be included in the notice setting forth such call.
Special Meeting
 
Section 3.   .  Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of the time, place and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes of the meeting of stockholders shall be delivered personally or mailed not earlier than sixty, nor less than ten, days
Notice
 
 
previous thereto, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation.
 
"); but if at any regularly called meeting of stockholders there shall be less than a quorum present, the stockholders present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum shall be present or represented.  At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if, after the adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 4.   .  The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation as may be amended from time to time (the "
Quorum
Certificate of Incorporation
 
Section 5.   .  The Chairman of the Board, or in the Chairman's absence or at the Chairman's direction, the Chief Executive Officer, or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or at the Chief Executive Officer's direction, any officer of the Corporation shall call all meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as Chairman of such meeting.  The Secretary of the Corporation or, in such officer's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting.  If neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the Chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary of the meeting.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors prior to the meeting, the Chairman of the meeting shall determine the order of business and shall have the authority in his or her discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including, without limitation, by imposing restrictions on the persons (other than stockholders of the Corporation or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such meeting, whether any stockholder or stockholders' proxy may be excluded from any meeting of stockholders based upon any determination by the Chairman, in his or her sole discretion, that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the proceedings thereat, and the circumstances in which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of stockholders.
Conduct of Meetings
 
Section 6.   .  At all meetings of stockholders, any stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period.  Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority: (a) a stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy, and execution of the writing may be accomplished by the stockholder or the stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature; or (b) a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly
Proxies
authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder.  If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the judge or judges of stockholder votes or, if there are no such judges, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied.
 
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 6 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
provided
 
Proxies shall be filed with the Secretary of the meeting prior to or at the commencement of the meeting to which they relate.
 
Section 7.   .  When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the matter shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of statute or of the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
Voting
 
Section 8.   .  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders (a) entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or (b) entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date (i) in the case of clause (a) above, shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting and (ii) in the case of clause (b) above, shall not be more than sixty days prior to such action.  If for any reason the Board of Directors shall not have fixed a record date for any such purpose, the record date for such purpose shall be determined as provided by law.  Only those stockholders of record on the date so fixed or determined shall be entitled to any of the foregoing rights, notwithstanding the transfer of any such stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date so fixed or determined.
Record Dates
 
Section 9.   .  The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting
Inspection of Stockholders List
is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held.  The list shall also be produced at the time and kept at the place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
 
Section 10.   .  The Board of Directors, in advance of all meetings of the stockholders, shall appoint one or more judges of stockholder votes, who may be stockholders or their proxies, but not directors of the Corporation or candidates for office.  In the event that the Board of Directors fails to so appoint judges of stockholder votes or, in the event that one or more judges of stockholder votes previously designated by the Board of Directors fails to appear or act at the meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the meeting may appoint one or more judges of stockholder votes to fill such vacancy or vacancies.  Judges of stockholder votes appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be sworn faithfully to execute the duties of judge of stockholder votes with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability and the oath so taken shall be subscribed by them.  Judges of stockholder votes shall, subject to the power of the Chairman of the meeting to open and close the polls, take charge of the polls, and, after the voting, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken.
Judges of Stockholder Votes
 
  (1)   Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation (other than directors to be nominated by any series of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, or pursuant to the Securityholders' Agreement (as defined below)) and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in paragraphs (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this Article I, Section 11 and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
Section 11.   .  (A)  
Notice and Information Requirements
Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
 
(2)   For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Article I, Section 11, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation, and any such proposed business other than nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the preceding year's annual meeting; ,, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before, or more than 70 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120 day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.  Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case
provided
however
th
th
"), including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books and records, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; (d) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal and/or the voting of shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation between or among the stockholder giving the notice, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, any of their respective affiliates or associates and/or any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing (collectively, "proponent persons"); and (e) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including without limitation any contract to purchase or sell, acquisition or grant of any option, right or warrant to purchase or sell, swap or other instrument) the intent or effect of which may be (i) to transfer to or from any proponent person, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of any security of the Corporation, (ii) to increase or decrease the voting power of any proponent person with respect to shares of any class or series of stock of the Corporation and/or (iii) to provide any proponent person, directly or indirectly, with the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from, or to otherwise benefit economically from, any increase or decrease in the value of any security of the Corporation.  A stockholder providing notice of a proposed nomination for election to the Board of Directors or other business proposed to be brought before a meeting (whether given pursuant to this paragraph (A)(2) or paragraph (B) of this By-Law) shall update and supplement such notice from time to time to the extent necessary so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof; such update and supplement shall be delivered in writing to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than 5 days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than 10 days prior to the date for the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof (in the case of any update and supplement required to be made as of 15 days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof).  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "
Exchange Act
 
other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
 
(3)   Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Article I, Section 11 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased, and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Article I, Section 11 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
 
(or stockholder(s) pursuant to Article Eighth of the Certificate of Incorporation) or (ii) provided that the Board of Directors (or stockholder(s) pursuant to Article Eighth of the Certificate of Incorporation) has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Article I, Section 11 and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.  In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice as required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Article I, Section 11 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120 day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior to such special meeting or the 10 day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
(B)   .  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting (1) in the case of a meeting called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws or (2) in the case of a meeting called upon a request of at least at least a majority in voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, as shall have been proposed by such holder(s) of at least at least a majority in voting power of all shares, pursuant to a notice setting forth the information required pursuant to paragraph (A)(2) of this By-Law, and such other purposes as shall be directed by the Board of Directors, in each case as set forth in the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to this Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors
Special Meetings of Stockholders
th
th
th
 
"), among the Corporation, CB Richard Ellis
(C)     (1)   Unless otherwise provided by the terms of any series of Preferred Stock, the Securityholders' Agreement dated as of July 20, 2001, as amended from time to time (the "
General.
Securityholders' Agreement
, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.  For purposes of this Section 11, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
Article I, Section 11
Services, Inc. and the Corporation's stockholders from time to time party thereto or any other agreement approved by the Corporation's Board of Directors, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article I, Section 11 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article I, Section 11.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article I, Section 11 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Article I, Section 11, to declare that such defective nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
 
(2)   For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(3)   For purposes of this By-Law, no adjournment or postponement nor notice of adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to constitute a new notice of such meeting for purposes of this Section 11, and in order for any notification required to be delivered by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 11 to be timely, such notification must be delivered within the periods set forth above with respect to the originally scheduled meeting.
 
; provided however, that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this By-Law (including paragraphs (A)(1)(c) and (B) hereof), and compliance with paragraphs (A)(1)(c) and (B) of this By-Law shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business.  Nothing in this By-Law shall be deemed to affect any rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock).
(4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law
 
ARTICLE II.
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
Section 1.   .  The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than three, as shall from time to time be fixed exclusively by resolution of the Board of Directors.  Directors shall (except as hereinafter provided for the filling of vacancies and newly created directorships) be elected by the holders of a plurality of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote.  A majority of the total number of directors then in office (but not less than one-third of the number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors.  Directors need not be stockholders.
Number, Election, Quorum
 
Section 2.   .  Unless otherwise required by law and subject to Section 4 of this Article II, newly created directorships in the Board of Directors that result from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; and the directors so chosen shall hold office for a term as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.  If any applicable provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware expressly confers power on stockholders to fill such a directorship at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such a meeting.
Newly-Created Directorships and Vacancies
 
Section 3.   .  Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board or as may be specified in the notice of any meeting.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board and special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, by oral, or written notice including, telegraph, telex or transmission of a telecopy, e-mail or other means of transmission, duly served on or sent or mailed to each director to such director's address or telecopy number as shown on the books of the Corporation not less than one day before the meeting.  The notice of any meeting need not specify the purposes thereof.  A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders at the same place at which such meeting is held.  Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board held at times fixed by resolution of the Board.  Notice of any meeting need not be given to any director who shall attend such meeting in person (except when the director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened), or who shall waive notice thereof, before or after such meeting, in writing.
Meetings
 
Section 4.   .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, removal, and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation (including any
Election of Directors by Holders of Preferred Stock
certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) applicable thereto.  The number of directors that may be elected by the holders of any such series of Preferred Stock shall be in addition to the number fixed by or pursuant to the By-Laws.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in the terms of such series, the number of directors that may be so elected by the holders of any such series of stock shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders, and vacancies among directors so elected by the separate vote of the holders of any such series of Preferred Stock shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors elected by such series, or, if there are no such remaining directors, by the holders of such series in the same manner in which such series initially elected a director.
 
Section 5.   .  If at any meeting for the election of directors, the Corporation has outstanding more than one class of stock, and one or more such classes or series thereof are entitled to vote separately as a class, and there shall be a quorum of only one such class or series of stock, that class or series of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding absence of a quorum of the other class or series of stock.
Election of Directors by Multiples Classes or Series of Stock
 
Section 6.   .  The Board of Directors may designate three or more directors to constitute an executive committee to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, one of whom shall be designated Chairman of such committee.  The members of such committee shall by comprised of such members of the Board of Directors as the Board of Directors shall from time to time establish.  Any vacancy occurring in the committee shall be filled by the Board of Directors.  Regular meetings of the committee shall be held at such times and on such notice and at such places as it may from time to time determine.  The committee shall act, advise with and aid the officers of the Corporation in all matters concerning its interest and the management of its business, and shall generally perform such duties and exercise such powers as may from time to time be delegated to it by the Board of Directors.  The committee shall have power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which are required by the Delaware General Corporation Law to have the seal affixed thereto.
Executive Committee
 
The executive committee shall keep regular minutes of its transactions and shall cause them to be recorded in a book kept in the office of the Corporation designated for that purpose, and shall report the same to the Board of Directors at their regular meeting.  The committee shall make and adopt its own rules for the government thereof and shall elect its own officers.
 
Section 7.   .  The Board of Directors may from time to time establish such other committees to serve at the pleasure of the Board (including, without limitation, an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee) which shall be comprised of such members of the Board and have such duties as the Board shall from time to time establish.  Any director may belong to any number of committees of the Board.  The Board may also establish such other committees with such members (whether or not directors) and such duties as the Board may from time to time determine.
Other Committees
 
Section 8.   .  Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or
Action by Unanimous Written Consent in Lieu of a Meeting
 
permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 9.   .  The members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this subsection shall constitute presence in person at such a meeting.
Remote Participation
 
Section 10.   .  The Board of Directors may establish policies for the compensation of directors and for the reimbursement of the expenses of directors, in each case, in connection with services provided by directors to the Corporation.
Compensation
 
ARTICLE III.
 
OFFICERS
 
Section 1.   .  The Board of Directors, after each annual meeting of the stockholders, shall elect officers of the Corporation, including a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President and a Secretary.  The Board of Directors may also from time to time elect such other officers (including one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant Treasurers) as it may deem proper or may delegate to any elected officer of the Corporation the power to appoint and remove any such other officers and to prescribe their respective terms of office, authorities and duties.  Any Vice President may be designated Executive, Senior or Corporate, or may be given such other designation or combination of designations as the Board of Directors may determine.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Election
 
Section 2.   .  All officers of the Corporation elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office for such term as may be determined by the Board of Directors or until their respective successors are chosen and qualified.  Any officer may be removed from office at any time either with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office, or, in the case of appointed officers, by any elected officer upon whom such power of removal shall have been conferred by the Board of Directors.
Terms
 
Section 3.   .  Each of the officers of the Corporation elected by the Board of Directors or appointed by an officer in accordance with these By-laws shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law, by the By-Laws or by the Board of Directors and, in the case of appointed officers, the powers and duties prescribed by the appointing officer, and, unless otherwise prescribed by the By-Laws or by the Board of Directors or such appointing officer, shall have such further powers and duties as ordinarily pertain to that office.
Powers and Duties
 
Section 4.   .  Unless otherwise provided in these By-Laws, in the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, the Board of Directors may, during such
Delegation
period, delegate such officer's powers and duties to any other officer or to any director and the person to whom such powers and duties are delegated shall, for the time being, hold such office.
 
ARTICLE IV.
 
CERTIFICATES OF STOCK
 
Section 1.   .  The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares.  Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.  Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Corporation, or as otherwise permitted by law, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.  Any or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
Form
 
Section 2.   .  Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation by the holder of the shares in person or by such holder's attorney upon surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares, or as otherwise provided by law with respect to uncertificated shares.
Transfers
 
Section 3.   .  No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft or destruction and upon delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors in its discretion may require.
Loss, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
 
ARTICLE V.
 
CORPORATE BOOKS
 
The books of the Corporation may be kept outside of the State of Delaware at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
ARTICLE VI.
 
CHECKS, NOTES, PROXIES, ETC.
 
All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors.  Proxies to vote and consents with respect to securities of other corporations owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation may be executed and delivered from time to time on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or President, or by such officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
 
ARTICLE VII.
 
FISCAL YEAR
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following.
 
ARTICLE VIII.
 
CORPORATE SEAL
 
The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation.  In lieu of the corporate seal, when so authorized by the Board of Directors or a duly empowered committee thereof, a facsimile thereof may be impressed or affixed or reproduced.
 
ARTICLE IX.
 
AMENDMENTS
 
These By-Laws may be amended, added to, rescinded or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting of the stockholders or, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
provided


