FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20081112172658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
 
 
On November 10, 2008, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (the "Company") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") (SEC File No. 333-155269) in connection with the sale from time to time by the Company or any selling securityholders of the Company of its Class A common stock, preferred stock or warrants to purchase any of the securities that may be sold thereunder. On November 10, 2008, the Company also filed with the SEC a preliminary prospectus supplement relating to an underwritten public offering of the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), by the Company. The Company is filing as Exhibit 1.1 the form of underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") between the Company and the several underwriters named therein in connection with such offering.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed for the purpose of filing the form of Underwriting Agreement as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and such form of Underwriting Agreement is hereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
 
 
The following exhibit is being filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (SEC File No. 333-155269) and is hereby incorporated by reference therein:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
November [ - ], 2008
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Banc of America Securities LLC,
as Representatives of the Several Underwriters,
c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC,
Eleven Madison Avenue,
New York, NY 10010-3629
Dear Sirs:
1. . CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto ("") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters [ - ] shares ("") of the Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share (""), and also proposes to issue and sell to the Underwriters, at the option of the Underwriters, an aggregate of not more than [ - ] additional shares ("") of its Securities as set forth below. The Firm Securities and the Optional Securities are herein collectively called the ""
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Firm Securities
Securities
Optional Securities
Offered Securities.
2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155269), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Offered Securities under the Act, which has become effective. "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified. "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
For purposes of this Agreement:
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
"" means [ - ]:00 [a/p]m (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Offered Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Offered Securities.
Effective Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
"" means Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Banc of America Securities LLC, in their role as representatives of the Underwriters.
Representatives
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
"" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Rules and Regulations, the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
"" has the meaning set forth in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, as promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, and includes, without limitation, whether or not such subsidiaries would constitute a significant subsidiary pursuant to Rule 102 of Regulation S-X: (i) all of the subsidiaries listed in Exhibit 21 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and (ii) CB Richard Ellis Investors, Inc.
Significant Subsidiaries
"" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including any document incorporated by reference, all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
 
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
(b) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Offered Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
(c) . (i) Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status. (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Offered Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
(iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If, at any time when Offered Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Offered Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives as soon as reasonably practicable, (iii) cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as reasonably practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness as soon as reasonably practicable. The Company will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Offered Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
(iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Offered Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1).
Filing Fees
 
(d) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405, including (x) the Company or any other subsidiary in the preceding three years not having been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or having been made the subject of a judicial or administrative decree or order as described in Rule 405 and (y) the Company in the preceding three years not having been the subject of a bankruptcy petition or insolvency or similar proceeding, not having had a registration statement be the subject of a proceeding under Section 8 of the Act and not being the subject of a proceeding under Section 8A of the Act in connection with the offering of the Securities, all as described in Rule 405.
Ineligible Issuer Status
(e) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated November 10, 2008 including the base prospectus, dated November 10, 2008 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Statutory Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
(f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has notified or will notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has amended or will amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission, in each case, as soon as reasonably practicable.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(g) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is an existing corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with corporate power and authorizations to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (a "").
Good Standing of the Company
Material Adverse Effect
 
(h) . Each Significant Subsidiary of the Company has been duly formed and is an existing corporation, limited liability company or limited partnership, as the case may be, in good standing (if applicable) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, with corporate (or equivalent) power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus; and each subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation, limited liability company or limited partnership, as the case may be, in good standing (if applicable) in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock, ownership interests, or partnership interests, as the case may be, of each Significant Subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and, in the case of capital stock, is fully paid and nonassessable; and except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus and for pledges in favor of Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, as collateral agent under the amended and restated credit agreement dated as of December 20, 2006, among the Company, CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., certain subsidiaries of CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., the lenders named therein and Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent (as such agreement has been amended through the date hereof), the capital stock, ownership interests, or partnership interests, as the case may be, of each Significant Subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects.
Subsidiaries
(i) . The Offered Securities and all other outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized; all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus; and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, the stockholders of the Company have no preemptive rights with respect to the Securities.
Offered Securities
(j) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person that would give rise to a valid claim against the Company or any Underwriter for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or other like payment in connection with this offering.
No Finder's Fee
(k) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company and any person granting such person the right to require the Company to file a registration statement under the Act with respect to any securities of the Company owned or to be owned by such person or to require the Company to include such securities in the securities registered pursuant to the Registration Statement or in any securities being registered pursuant to any other registration statement filed by the Company under the Act that have not been satisfied or waived prior to the date hereof.
Registration Rights
(l) . The Offered Securities will be approved for listing on The New York Stock Exchange, subject to notice of issuance.
Listing
(m) . No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Offered Securities by the Company, except such as have been obtained and made under the Act and such as may be required under any state or foreign securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
 
(n) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries have good and valid title to all real properties and all other properties and assets owned by them that are material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case free from liens, encumbrances and defects that would materially affect the value thereof or materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made thereof by them; and except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries hold any leased real or personal property that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole under valid and enforceable leases with no exceptions that would materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made thereof by them.
Title to Property
(o) . Assuming the accuracy of the representations of the other parties hereto and the performance by those parties of their agreements herein, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated, will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, (a) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, that has jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of their properties, (b) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or its subsidiaries is subject or (c) the charter, by-laws or similar governing documents of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, except, with respect to clauses (a) and (b), where such breach, violation or default would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
(p) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(q) . The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries possess adequate certificates, authorities or permits issued by appropriate governmental agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such certificate, authority or permit that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
(r) . No labor disputes with the employees of the Company or any subsidiary exist or, to the knowledge of the Company, are imminent that would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
(s) . The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries own, possess or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate trademarks, trade names and other rights to inventions, know-how, patents, copyrights, confidential information and other intellectual property (collectively, "") necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, or presently employed by them, and have not received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any intellectual property rights that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
intellectual property rights
(t) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any statute, rule, regulation, decision or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, relating to the use, disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or relating to the protection or restoration of the environment or human exposure to hazardous or toxic substances (collectively, ""), owns or operates any real property contaminated with any
Environmental Laws
environmental laws
 
substance that is subject to any environmental laws, is liable for any off-site disposal or contamination pursuant to any environmental laws, or is subject to any claim relating to any environmental laws, which violation, contamination, liability or claim would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and the Company is not aware of any pending investigation which might lead to such a claim.
(u) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
(v) . The minimum funding standard under Section 302 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (""), has been satisfied by each "pension plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) which has been established or maintained by the Company and/or one or more of its subsidiaries, and the trust forming part of each such plan, which is intended to be qualified under Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), is so qualified; each of the Company and its subsidiaries has fulfilled its obligations, if any, under Section 515 of ERISA; each welfare plan established or maintained by the Company and/or one or more of its subsidiaries is in compliance in all material respects with the currently applicable provisions of ERISA; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has incurred or could reasonably be expected to incur any withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA, any liability under Section 4062, 4063, or 4064 of ERISA, or any other liability under Title IV of ERISA, except, in each case, as would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA
ERISA
(w) . There is and has been no failure which is continuing on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith. Each of the Company and its subsidiaries maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (a) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (b) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("") and to maintain asset accountability; (c) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (d) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Commission, including, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer or officers and its principal financial officer or officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
GAAP
(x) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the ""), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
FCPA
 
any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
(y) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
Money Laundering Laws
(z) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("").
OFAC
OFAC
(aa) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings against or affecting the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that (a) if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect, (b) would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company or its subsidiaries to perform their respective obligations under this Agreement or (c) are otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Offered Securities; and no such actions, suits or proceedings are, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened or contemplated.
Litigation
(bb) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and General Disclosure Package present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and, except as otherwise disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP applied on a consistent basis; and the schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein.
Financial Statements
(cc) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus (i) there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the financial condition, results of operations or business of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole and (ii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
(dd) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus, with respect to the stock options granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, (i) each grant of such stock option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such stock option was by its terms to be effective (the
Stock Options
 
"") by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of the Company or the relevant subsidiary of the Company (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes or written consents, and the award agreement governing such grant (if any) was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, (ii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements and (iii) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with GAAP in the consolidated financial statements (including the related notes) of the Company and disclosed in the Company's filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has knowingly granted, and there is no and has been no policy or practice of the Company or any of its subsidiaries of granting, such stock options prior to, or otherwise coordinating the grant of such stock options with, the release or other public announcement of material information regarding the Company or its subsidiaries or their results of operations or prospects.
Stock Options Grant Date
(ee) . The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Offered Securities as described in the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of $[ - ] per share, the respective number of shares of Firm Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Offered Securities
The Company will deliver the Firm Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to Credit Suisse drawn to the order of CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 10:00 A.M., New York time, on November [ - ] 2008, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "" For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the First Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all the Offered Securities sold pursuant to the offering.
First Closing Date.
In addition, upon written notice from the Representatives given to the Company from time to time not more than 30 days subsequent to the date of the Final Prospectus, the Underwriters may purchase all or less than all of the Optional Securities at the purchase price per Security to be paid for the Firm Securities. The Company agrees to sell to the Underwriters the number of shares of Optional Securities specified in such notice and the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase such Optional Securities. Such Optional Securities shall be purchased for the account of each Underwriter in the same proportion as the number of shares of Firm Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name bears to the total number of shares of Firm Securities (subject to adjustment by the Representatives to eliminate fractions) and may be purchased by the Underwriters only for the purpose of covering over-allotments made in connection with the sale of the Firm Securities. No Optional Securities shall be sold or delivered unless the Firm Securities previously have been, or simultaneously are, sold and delivered. The right to purchase the Optional Securities or any portion thereof may be exercised from time to time and to the extent not previously exercised may be surrendered and terminated at any time upon notice by the Representatives to the Company.
 
Each time for the delivery of and payment for the Optional Securities, being herein referred to as an "" which may be the First Closing Date (the First Closing Date and each Optional Closing Date, if any, being sometimes referred to as a ""), shall be determined by the Representatives but shall be not later than five full business days after written notice of election to purchase Optional Securities is given. The Company will deliver the Optional Securities being purchased on each Optional Closing Date to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price therefor in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to Credit Suisse drawn to the order of CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., at the above office.
Optional Closing Date,
Closing Date
4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Offered Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
(a) . The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b)(2) (or, if applicable and consented to by the Representatives, subparagraph (5)) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses
(b) . As long as the Underwriters effecting transactions in the Securities have an obligation under the Securities Act to deliver a prospectus relating to the Securities, the Company will promptly advise the Representatives of: (i) any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement, (ii) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (iii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iv) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose and (v) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Offered Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. As long as the Underwriters effecting transactions in the Securities have an obligation under the Securities Act to deliver a prospectus relating to the Securities, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
(c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
(d) . As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
Rule 158
(e) . As long as the Underwriters effecting transactions in the Securities have an obligation under the Securities Act to deliver a prospectus relating to the Securities, the Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as reasonably practicable and in such quantities as the Representatives reasonably request. The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
Furnishing of Prospectuses
(f) . The Company will arrange for the qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution.
Blue Sky Qualifications
(g) . During the period of two years hereafter, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval ("") system, it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
(h) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters) incurred in connection with qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, costs and expenses related to the review, if required, by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. of the Offered Securities (including filing fees and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters relating to such review), costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company including half the cost, if any, of the chartering of airplanes, fees and expenses incident to listing the Offered Securities on the New York Stock Exchange, fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Offered Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors.
Payment of Expenses
(i) . The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" sections of the General Disclosure Package and Final Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds
(j) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
 
(k) . For the period specified below (the ""), the Company will not, directly or indirectly, take any of the following actions with respect to its Securities or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any of its Securities (""): (i) offer, sell, issue, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of Lock-Up Securities, (ii) offer, sell, issue, contract to sell, contract to purchase or grant any option, right or warrant to purchase Lock-Up Securities, (iii) enter into any swap, hedge or any other agreement that transfers, in whole or in part, the economic consequences of ownership of Lock-Up Securities, (iv) establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position in Lock-Up Securities within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (v) file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to Lock-Up Securities, or publicly disclose the intention to take any such action, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (""), except grants of employee stock options pursuant to the terms of a plan in effect on the date hereof, issuances of Lock-Up Securities pursuant to the exercise of such options or the exercise of any other employee stock options outstanding on the date hereof or issuances of Lock-Up Securities pursuant to the Company's dividend reinvestment plan. The initial Lock-Up Period will commence on the date hereof and continue for 90 days after the date hereof or such earlier date that Credit Suisse consents to in writing.
Restriction on Sale of Securities
Lock-Up Period
Lock-Up Securities
Credit Suisse
6. . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Offered Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Firm Securities on the First Closing Date and the Optional Securities to be purchased on each Optional Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on such Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and each Closing Date, of Deloitte & Touche LLP and KPMG LLP in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives and confirming that they are each, respectively, a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws.
Accountants' Comfort Letters
(b) . The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.
Filing of Prospectus
 
(c) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities.
No Material Adverse Change
(d) . The Representatives shall have received from Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Company, such opinion and disclosure letters, each dated such Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Schedules C and C-1 hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(e) . The Representatives shall have received from Laurence Midler, Executive Vice President and General Counsel to the Company, such opinion letter, dated such Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, to the effect set forth in Schedule D hereto.
Opinion of General Counsel to Company
(f) . The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters
(g) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated such Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that to the best of their knowledge after reasonable investigation: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package (which, for the avoidance of doubt, are the financial statements included in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008), there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the financial condition, results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
 
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request. The Representatives may waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder, whether in respect of an Optional Closing Date or otherwise.
8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
(b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the fourth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" and the information contained in the eleventh (pertaining to
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
stabilizing transactions), twelfth (pertaining to stabilizing transactions), thirteenth (pertaining to over-allotment), fourteenth (pertaining to syndicate covering transactions), fifteenth (pertaining to penalty bids) and sixteenth (pertaining to the effect of stabilizing transactions, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids) paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting."
(c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that actual conflicts of interest exist between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there are legal defenses relating to a material aspect of such action available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party. No indemnifying party shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding without its prior written consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated above, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement, unless such indemnifying party has (a) paid all undisputed amounts and only failed to pay amounts disputed in good faith and (b) provided detail regarding the reasons for the failure to pay amounts requested by the indemnified party.
Actions
a
gainst Parties; Notification
. If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the
(d) Contribution
 
Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Offered Securities hereunder on either the First or any Optional Closing Date and the aggregate number of shares of Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total number of shares of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on such Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by such Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Offered Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on such Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate number of shares of Offered Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total number of shares of Offered Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on such Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Offered Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10 (provided that if such default occurs with respect to Optional Securities after the First Closing Date, this Agreement will not terminate as to the Firm Securities or any Optional Securities purchased prior to such termination). As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Offered Securities. If the purchase of the Offered Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to clause (iii), (iv) or (vii) of Section 7(c) or Section 9 hereof, the
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
 
Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect.
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010-3629, Attention: LCD-IBD, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at 11150 Santa Monica Boulevard, Suite 1600, Los Angeles, CA 90025, Attention: General Counsel; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives jointly or by Credit Suisse will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
15. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship
(a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of Offered Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
(b) . The price of the Offered Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations
(c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
(d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
 
16.
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
 
 
 
 
1. General Use Free Writing Prospectuses (included in the General Disclosure Package)
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
1. The Free Writing Prospectus dated November [ - ], 2008.
 


