FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20090820100459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
(c) On August 20, 2009, Michael J. Lafitte was appointed as President of the Company's Americas business, effective immediately. He replaces Calvin W. Frese, Jr., who became the Company's Global Chief Operating Officer in January 2009 and remained as President, Americas until a successor was appointed. Mr. Lafitte has served as President of the Institutional & Corporate Services business since the Company's December 2006 acquisition of Trammell Crow Company. Prior to that he served as President, Global Services of Trammell Crow Company from June 2003 until December 2006, and before that was Trammell Crow Company's Chief Operating Officer, Global Services beginning in September 2002. Mr. Lafitte holds a B.A. from the University of Texas and an M.B.A. from Southern Methodist University.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Lafitte's appointment as President, Americas is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
For further information:
 
Los Angeles, CA  August 20, 2009  CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced that Michael J. Lafitte has been appointed President of the Company's Americas business. Mr. Lafitte has been President of the Institutional & Global Corporate Services (Outsourcing) line of business, where he has overseen strong growth for the past two and a half years. In his new role, he succeeds Calvin W. Frese, Jr., who became the Company's Global Chief Operating Officer earlier this year.
As President, Americas, Mr. Lafitte will direct all of the Company's business lines and shared services functions in the United States, Canada and Latin America. The Americas is the Company's largest business segment with 2008 revenue of more than $3.2 billion.
"Mike is the perfect person to lead our Americas operations to the next level of success," Mr. Frese said. "He is widely respected by our employees and clients alike and is a great leader who lives-out our corporate values."
Mr. Lafitte joined CB Richard Ellis in December 2006 with the acquisition of Trammell Crow Company. Since then, he has presided over the Company's Institutional & Global Corporate Services business. Despite the challenges of the economy, the business line has grown into a $1.7 billion annual business and comprised more than 40% of the Company's global revenue for the first six months of 2009.
Mr. Lafitte began his real estate career in 1984 as a leasing agent at Lincoln Property Company and over the past 25 years, has held leadership and production roles at Bear Stearns Real Estate Group and PREMISYS (a former affiliate of Prudential Life Insurance Company) prior to joining Trammell Crow Company in 1997.
CB Richard Ellis Press Release
August 20, 2009
Page 2
 
Mr. Lafitte holds a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of Texas and Master's in Business Administration from Southern Methodist University. He resides in Dallas, Texas with his wife and three children.
About CB Richard Ellis
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2008 revenue). The Company has approximately 30,000 employees (excluding affiliates), and serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 300 offices (excluding affiliates) worldwide. CB Richard Ellis offers strategic advice and execution for property sales and leasing; corporate services; property, facilities and project management; mortgage banking; appraisal and valuation; development services; investment management; and research and consulting. CB Richard Ellis has been named a 50 "best in class" company and 100 fastest growing company two years in a row. Please visit our Web site at .
Fortune
BusinessWeek
Fortune
www.cbre.com


