FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20090720214012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
(c)    On July 20, 2009, Robert E. Sulentic, Chief Financial Officer and President, Development Services, was promoted to Group President and Chief Financial Officer. In this position, each of the Company's reporting segments (Americas, EMEA, Asia Pacific, Global Investment Management and Development Services) will report directly or indirectly to Mr. Sulentic, who will also be responsible for the Company's finance, information technology, research and human resources functions. Mr. Sulentic will continue to report to Brett White, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Sulentic's compensation will not change as a result of this promotion.
Mr. Sulentic, 52, has served as Chief Financial Officer and President of the Company's Development Services Business since March 3, 2009. Mr. Sulentic previously served as our Group President  Development Services, Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa, and had been a member of the Company's board of directors from December 2006 through February 17, 2009. Prior to that, he was a director of Trammell Crow Company from December 1997 through December 2006 and served as its Chairman of the board from May 2002 through December 2006. Mr. Sulentic was President and Chief Executive Officer of Trammell Crow Company from October 2000 through December 2006 and prior to that served as its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 1998 to October 2000. Mr. Sulentic is also a member of the board of directors of Staples, Inc. He holds a B.A. degree from Iowa State University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


