FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20090218091934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
(b), (c) On February 18, 2009, Robert E. Sulentic was appointed as the Company's Chief Financial Officer and President  Development Services, effective as of March 3, 2009. Effective February 17, 2009, Mr. Sulentic resigned from the Company's board of directors. Mr. Sulentic resigned from the board of directors as a result of a new board policy regarding eligibility of the holder of certain officer positions to serve on the board of directors.
Mr. Sulentic previously served as our Group President  Development Services, Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and Africa, and had been a member of the Company's board of directors since December 2006. Prior to that, he was a director of Trammell Crow Company from December 1997 through December 2006 and served as its Chairman of the board from May 2002 through December 2006. Mr. Sulentic was President and Chief Executive Officer of Trammell Crow Company from October 2000 through December 2006 and prior to that served as its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 1998 to October 2000. Mr. Sulentic is also a member of the board of directors of Staples, Inc. He holds a B.A. degree from Iowa State University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
Gil Borok, who has been serving as the Company's interim Chief Financial Officer, will resume his duties as the Company's Executive Vice President  Chief Accounting Officer and will also take on the additional role of Chief Financial Officer of the Company's Americas business.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Sulentic's appointment as Chief Financial Officer is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
 
Los Angeles  February 18, 2009  CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced that Robert E. Sulentic has been named the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Sulentic is a highly seasoned industry veteran who combines public company corporate finance experience with an in-depth understanding of the company's global operations. Mr. Sulentic is currently Chief Executive Officer of the company's Development Services business, and until recently, served as Group President of CB Richard Ellis' EMEA and Asia Pacific operations. Before that, he was Chief Financial Officer and then Chief Executive Officer of Trammell Crow Company, prior to its acquisition by CB Richard Ellis in December 2006. In addition to his Chief Financial Officer role, Mr. Sulentic will also continue to lead the company's Development Services business.
In addition, Jim Groch has been named Chief Investment Officer with responsibility for Corporate Finance and Strategy, which is a new position. Mr. Groch held a similar position with Trammell Crow Company prior to its acquisition by CB Richard Ellis. He has strong expertise and a proven track record in corporate finance, real estate investment, and mergers and acquisitions. Included among his responsibilities will be a focus on managing the company's capital structure and balance sheet and overseeing merger and acquisition activities. Mr. Groch will also continue as the Chief Investment Officer for the company's Development Services business.
Gil Borok, who assumed the responsibilities of interim Chief Financial Officer in late 2008, will resume his responsibilities as the company's Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Additionally, Mr. Borok will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer of the company's Americas business.
"Bob, Jim and Gil are a highly experienced team that work well together. I look forward to their collective guidance and counsel as we lead the company forward through the current downcycle and position ourselves to take advantage of an eventual improvement in market conditions," said Brett White, President and Chief Executive Officer of CB Richard Ellis.
About CB Richard Ellis
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2008 revenue). With over 29,000 employees, the Company serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 300 offices worldwide (excluding affiliate offices). CB Richard Ellis offers strategic advice and execution for property sales and leasing; corporate services; property, facilities and project management; mortgage banking; appraisal and valuation; development services; investment management; and research and consulting. CB Richard Ellis is the only commercial real estate services company named one of the 50 "best in class" companies by BusinessWeek, and was also named one of the 100 fastest growing companies by Fortune. Please visit our Web site at .
www.cbre.com


