FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20090619132820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
Item 8.01    Other Events.
On June 18, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the offering of $450 million of 11.625% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 by the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following document is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
This current report and the press release incorporated by reference herein contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the offering of the Senior Subordinated Notes and the anticipated use of proceeds therefrom. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the press release and, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any of them to reflect actual results, any changes in expectations or any change in events. If the Company does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that it will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. For additional information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, and risks to the Company's business in general, please refer to the Company's SEC filings, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
"Safe Harbor" Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 19, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Los Angeles, CAJune 18, 2009CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) today announced the completion of its offering of $450 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes due 2017 (the "Notes"). The Notes have an interest rate of 11.625% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 96.873% of their face value.
The Company estimates that the net proceeds from the offering were approximately $425 million after deducting discounts and estimated offering expenses. The Company intends to use the net proceeds for the repayment of some of its outstanding indebtedness under its credit agreement.
The Notes were issued by the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc. and guaranteed, on a full and unconditional basis, by the Company and the subsidiaries that guarantee its senior secured credit facility.
The Notes were sold in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes nor shall there be any sale of the Notes in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, or applicable state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or pursuant to an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the offering of the Notes and the anticipated use of proceeds therefrom. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any of them to reflect actual results,
"Safe Harbor" Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
any changes in expectations or any change in events. If CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that it will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. For additional information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, and risks to CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc.'s business in general, please refer to its SEC filings, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter period ended March 31, 2009.


