FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20091103165641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
(a) On November 3, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Company intends to sell shares of its Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock") having an aggregate offering price of up to $300 million, from time to time, pursuant to an at-the-market offering program through Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as sales agent and/or principal. The offering of Common Stock through this program will be made pursuant to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration File No. 333-155269) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on November 10, 2008 in connection with the sale from time to time by the Company or any selling securityholders of the Company of its Common Stock, preferred stock or warrants to purchase any of the securities that may be sold thereunder, the base prospectus filed with the SEC on November 10, 2008 and a prospectus supplement to be filed with the SEC as of the date hereof. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(b) The Company is filing as (1) Exhibit 99.2, the form of Distribution Agreement between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "Distribution Agreement"), in connection with the at-the-market offering program; (2) Exhibit 4.1, the Waiver to Securityholders' Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2009, by and among the Company, CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc. and the other parties thereto (the "Waiver to Securityholders' Agreement"), in connection with the at-the-market offering program and (3) Exhibit 5.1, the opinion of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel to the Company, dated November 3, 2009 (the "Opinion"), regarding the legality of the Common Stock.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed, in part, for the purpose of filing the form of Distribution Agreement, the executed Waiver to the Securityholders' Agreement and the Opinion as exhibits to the Registration Statement and such form of Distribution Agreement, the executed Waiver to the Securityholders' Agreement and the Opinion are hereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
 
 
The following documents are attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Exhibits 4.1, 5.1 and 99.2 are being filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement and are hereby incorporated by reference therein.
This current report and the press release incorporated by reference herein contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future operations and future financial performance of the Company and the proposed sale of Common Stock. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the press release and, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any of them to reflect actual results, any changes in expectations or any change in events. If the Company does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that it will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. For additional information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, and risks to the Company's business in general, please refer to the Company's SEC filings, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009.
"Safe Harbor" Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 3, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
The parties identified on the signature page hereto have executed this waiver, dated as of November 2, 2009 (this ""), to that certain Securityholders' Agreement, by and among (i) CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly known as CBRE Holding, Inc. (the ""), (ii) Blum Strategic Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership formerly known as RCBA Strategic Partners, L.P., Blum Strategic Partners II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and Blum Strategic Partners II GmbH & Co. KG, a German limited partnership, (iii) Frederic V. Malek, (iv) Raymond E. Wirta and (v) W. Brett White, dated as of July 20, 2001, as amended by that Amendment and Waiver dated as of April 14, 2004, the Second Amendment and Waiver dated as of November 24, 2004 and that certain Third Amendment and Waiver dated as of August 1, 2005 (together, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Securityholders' Agreement.
Waiver
Company
Securityholders' Agreement
A. The Securityholders' Agreement provides for, among other things, the registration of shares of Common Stock (as defined below) held by the undersigned, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein;
B. The Company intends to offer shares of its Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the ""), having an aggregate offering price of up to $300.0 million pursuant to a registered at-the-market offering program (the "");
Common Stock
Offering
C. The Company intends to utilize its automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-155269) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 10, 2008 pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (together with the prospectus supplement relating to the Offering that the Company intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the "") in connection with the Offering; and
Shelf Registration Statement
D. Each of the undersigned agrees to waive certain provisions in the Securityholders' Agreement in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement as set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1. . Each of the undersigned hereby acknowledges and agrees that it irrevocably and unconditionally waives any and all rights to include the undersigned's Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration Statement in connection with the Offering.
Waiver
Section 2. .
Miscellaneous Provisions
(a) The parties hereto will sign such further documents, cause such meetings to be held, resolutions passed, exercise their votes and do and perform and cause to be done such further acts and things as may be reasonably necessary in order to give full effect to this Waiver.
(b) Notwithstanding anything in this Waiver to the contrary, except as expressly set forth herein, the Securityholders' Agreement shall remain in full force and effect without amendment or modification thereof.
(c) This Waiver does not create any rights, claims or benefits inuring to any Person that is not a party hereto nor create or establish any third party beneficiary hereto.
(d) This Waiver will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, applicable to contracts executed and to be performed entirely within that state.
(e) This Waiver, together with the Securityholders' Agreement, sets forth the entire understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
(f) The section headings contained in this Waiver are for reference purposes only and will not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Waiver.
(g) If any provision of this Waiver is declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, all other provisions of this Waiver will not be affected and will remain in full force and effect.
(h) This Waiver may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original and all of which together will be deemed to be one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Waiver by facsimile or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Waiver. This Waiver shall become effective as of the date set forth above on the date on which the Company has received executed counterparts of this Waiver from each of the undersigned.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed this Waiver or caused this Waiver to be executed on its behalf as of the date set forth above.
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED as of the date set forth above:
 

EXHIBIT 5.1
 
 
 
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc.
11150 Santa Monica Boulevard
Suite 1600
Los Angeles, CA 90025
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offer and sale by the Company of shares of its Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), having an aggregate offering price of up to $300,000,000 (the "Shares") covered by the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration File No. 333-155269) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") on November 10, 2008. The Shares will be sold in accordance with the Distribution Agreement, dated November 3, 2009 (the "Distribution Agreement"), between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as sales agent and/or principal.
We have examined the Registration Statement and a form of the share certificate for the Common Stock, which has been filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. We also have examined the originals, or duplicates or certified or conformed copies, of such corporate and other records, agreements, documents and
November 3, 2009
other instruments and have made such other investigations as we have deemed relevant and necessary in connection with the opinions hereinafter set forth. As to questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon certificates or comparable documents of public officials and of officers and representatives of the Company.
In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as duplicates or certified or conformed copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents.
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications, assumptions and limitations stated herein, we are of the opinion that, upon issuance, payment and delivery in accordance with the Distribution Agreement, the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
We do not express any opinion herein concerning any law other than the law of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the Delaware General Corporation Law (including the statutory provisions, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing).
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed by the Company with the Commission on or about the date hereof and to the use of our name under the caption "Legal Matters" in the prospectus included in the Registration Statement and the prospectus supplement filed in connection with the offering and sale of the Shares.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
For further information contact:
 
LOS ANGELES, CANovember 3, 2009CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG) announced today that it intends to sell shares of its Class A common stock, having an aggregate offering price of up to $300 million, from time to time, pursuant to an at-the-market offering program through BofA Merrill Lynch, as sales agent and/or principal.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of a portion of its outstanding indebtedness under its senior secured credit agreement.
The Company has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) and a prospectus supplement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for the offering of Class A common stock described in this communication. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the prospectus supplement relating to the at-the-market offering and other documents the Company has filed with the SEC for more complete information about it and the at-the-market offering program. You may obtain these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the Company or the sales agent will arrange to send you the prospectus supplement (including the prospectus) if you request it by contacting BofA Merrill Lynch, 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080, Attn: Preliminary Prospectus Department or by email to Prospectus.Requests@ml.com.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Company's Class A common stock nor shall there be any sale of such common stock in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About CB Richard Ellis
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. (NYSE:CBG), a 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles, is the world's largest commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2008 revenue). The Company has approximately 30,000 employees (excluding affiliates), and serves real estate owners, investors and occupiers through more than 300 offices (excluding affiliates) worldwide. CB Richard Ellis offers strategic advice and execution for property sales and leasing; corporate services; property, facilities and project management; mortgage banking; appraisal and valuation; development services; investment management; and research and consulting.
Fortune
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the proposed offering of shares of the Company's Class A common stock and the anticipated use of proceeds therefrom. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in the Company's filings with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any of them to reflect actual results, any changes in expectations or any change in events. If the Company does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that it will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. For additional information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, and risks to the Company's business in general, please refer to its SEC filings, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009.
"Safe Harbor" Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:

EXHIBIT 99.2
November 3, 2009
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as agent and/or principal under any Terms Agreement (as defined in Section 1(a) below) ("you" or "Merrill Lynch"), with respect to the issuance and sale from time to time by the Company, in the manner and subject to the terms and conditions described below (this "Agreement"), of Class A common stock, $0.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company having an aggregate Gross Sales Price (as defined in Section 2(b) below) of up to $300,000,000 (the "Maximum Amount") on the terms set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement. Such shares are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Shares" and are described in the Prospectus referred to below.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155269) (the "registration statement") for the registration of the Shares and other securities of the Company, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Act"); and such registration statement sets forth the terms of the offering, sale and plan of distribution of the Shares and contains additional information concerning the Company and its business. "Registration Statement," as used herein, means the registration statement, as amended at the time of such registration statement's effectiveness for purposes of Section 11 of the Act, as such section applies to Merrill Lynch, including (1) all documents filed as a part thereof or incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein and (2) any information contained or incorporated by reference in a prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Act, to the extent such information is deemed, pursuant to Rule 430B or Rule 430C under the Act, to be part of the registration statement at the effective time. "Basic Prospectus" means the prospectus dated November 10, 2008, filed as part of the Registration Statement, including the documents incorporated by reference therein as of the date of such prospectus; "Prospectus Supplement" means the most recent prospectus supplement relating to the Shares, to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Act on or before the second business day after the date of its first use in connection with a public offering or sale of Shares pursuant hereto (or such earlier time as may be required under the Act), in the form furnished by the Company to Merrill Lynch in connection with the offering of the Shares; "Prospectus" means the Prospectus Supplement (and any additional prospectus supplement prepared in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4(b) or 4(h) of this Agreement and filed in accordance with the provisions of Rule 424(b)) together with the Basic Prospectus attached to or used with the Prospectus Supplement; and "Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall, unless otherwise stated, be deemed to refer to and include the
documents, if any, incorporated by reference, or deemed to be incorporated by reference, therein (the "Incorporated Documents"), including, unless the context otherwise requires, the documents, if any, filed as exhibits to such Incorporated Documents; , that the Company and Merrill Lynch agree that any representations or warranties contained in any such exhibits to the Incorporated Documents are not deemed to be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus. Any reference herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall, unless stated otherwise, be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act") on or after the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, or the date of the Basic Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Prospectus or such Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, as the case may be, and deemed to be incorporated therein by reference.
provided, however
The Company and Merrill Lynch agree as follows:
1. .
Issuance and Sale
 
 
 
efforts, as provided herein and in the applicable Transaction Notice, to place Shares issued by the Company only if and when a Transaction Notice related to such an Agency Transaction has been delivered by Merrill Lynch and accepted by the Company as provided in Section 2 below.
 
 
 
 
2. .
Transaction Notices and Terms Agreements
 
 
specified period of Exchange Business Days. If Merrill Lynch agrees to the terms of such proposed Agency Transaction or if the Company and Merrill Lynch mutually agree to modified terms for such proposed Agency Transaction, then Merrill Lynch shall promptly send to the Company (by any means permissible under Section 10 hereof) a notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto (each, a "Transaction Notice"), confirming the agreed terms of such proposed Agency Transaction. If the Company wishes such proposed Agency Transaction to become a binding agreement between it and Merrill Lynch, the Company shall promptly indicate its acceptance thereof by countersigning and returning such Transaction Notice to Merrill Lynch or sending a written notice to Merrill Lynch (by any means permissible under Section 10 hereof) indicating its acceptance. The terms reflected in a Transaction Notice shall become binding on Merrill Lynch and the Company only if accepted by the Company no later than the dates and times specified in such Transaction Notice. Each Transaction Notice shall specify, among other things:
(i) the Exchange Business Day(s) on which the Shares subject to such Agency Transaction are intended to be sold (each, a "Purchase Date");
(ii) the maximum number of Shares that the Company intends to sell (the "Specified Number of Shares") on, or over the course of, such Purchase Date(s); provided that the number of Shares sold on each such Purchase Date shall be no more than 25% of the average daily trading volume in the Common Stock on the Exchange for the thirty (30) Exchange Business Days preceding the date of delivery of the Transaction Notice, or as otherwise agreed between the Company and Merrill Lynch and documented in the relevant Transaction Notice; and
(iii) the lowest price, if any, at which the Company is willing to sell Shares on each such Purchase Date or a formula pursuant to which such lowest price shall be determined (each, a "Floor Price").
Provided that Merrill Lynch confirms to the Company the number of Shares sold in accordance with Section 1(d) above, the Company shall have responsibility for maintaining records with respect to the aggregate dollar amount of Shares sold, or for otherwise monitoring the availability of Shares for sale under the Registration Statement. In the event that more than one Transaction Notice with respect to any Purchase Date(s) is accepted by the Company, the latest executed Transaction Notice shall govern any sales of Shares for the relevant Purchase Date(s), except to the extent of any action occurring pursuant to a prior accepted Transaction Notice and prior to the acceptance of such latest Transaction Notice. The Company or Merrill Lynch may, upon notice to the other party hereto by telephone (confirmed promptly by e-mail or facsimile), suspend the offering of the Shares for any reason; , , that such suspension or termination shall not affect or impair the parties' respective obligations with respect to the Shares sold hereunder prior to the giving of such notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the terms of any Agency Transaction
provided
however
 
contemplate that Shares shall be sold on more than one Purchase Date, then the Company and Merrill Lynch shall mutually agree to such additional terms and conditions as they deem reasonably necessary in respect of such multiple Purchase Dates, and such additional terms and conditions shall be set forth in the relevant Transaction Notice and be binding to the same extent as any other terms contained therein.
 
 
 
 
 
or any similar rule) in connection with the offering or sale of the Shares, Merrill Lynch shall calculate the average daily trading volume (as defined under "ADTV" by Rule 100 of Regulation M under the Exchange Act) of the Common Stock based on market data provided by Bloomberg L.P. or such other sources as agreed upon by Merrill Lynch and the Company.
 
(ii) The terms set forth in a Terms Agreement shall not be binding on the Company or Merrill Lynch unless and until the Company and Merrill Lynch have each executed such Terms Agreement accepting all of the terms of such Terms Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of a Terms Agreement, the terms of such Terms Agreement shall control.
(iii) Any Principal Transaction is subject to the requirements of Section 312.03 of the Listed Company Manual of the Exchange, and no Shares will be sold to Merrill Lynch for its own account in a Principal Transaction if shareholder approval of such transaction would be required under such Section 312.03.
 
 
 
 
3. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, Merrill Lynch, on and as of (i) the date hereof, (ii) each date on which the Company accepts a Transaction Notice (a "Time of Acceptance") or the Company executes and delivers a Terms Agreement, (iii) each Time of Sale (as defined below), (iv) each
Representations, Warranties and Agreements of the Company
 
Settlement Date and (v) each Bring-Down Delivery Date (as defined in Section 6(b)) (each such date listed in (i) through (v), a "Representation Date"), as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prospectus; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Shares by the Company, except such as have been obtained and made under the Act and such as may be required under any state securities laws, any rule or regulation issued pursuant to any state securities laws or any foreign securities laws.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have good and valid title to all real properties and all other properties and assets owned by them that are material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case free from liens, encumbrances and defects that would materially affect the value thereof or materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made thereof by them other than liens, encumbrances, and defects permitted by the Credit Agreement; and except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries hold any leased real or personal property that is material to the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries taken as a whole under valid and enforceable leases with no exceptions that would materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made thereof by them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
 
 
 
 
4. The Company hereby agrees with Merrill Lynch:
Certain Covenants of the Company.
 
 
 
Rule 424(b) and Rules 430A, 430B or 430C under the Act) and to file any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Act and to provide copies of the Prospectus and such Prospectus Supplement and each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (to the extent not previously delivered or filed on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system or any successor system thereto (collectively, "EDGAR")) to Merrill Lynch via e-mail in ".pdf" format on such filing date to an e-mail account designated by Merrill Lynch and, at Merrill Lynch's request, to also furnish copies of the Prospectus and such Prospectus Supplement to each exchange or market on which sales were effected as may be required by the rules or regulations of such exchange or market.
 
 
 
 
such states as Merrill Lynch may reasonably designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Shares; provided that the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, become a dealer of securities, or become subject to taxation in, or to consent to the general service of process under the laws of, any such state; and to promptly advise Merrill Lynch of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Shares for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose.
 
 
 
 
either such counsel, to amend or supplement the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the Act, in the case of such a determination by counsel to the Company, immediate notice shall be given, and confirmed in writing, to Merrill Lynch to cease the solicitation of offers to purchase the Shares in Merrill Lynch's capacity as agent, and, in either case, the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission such amendment or supplement, whether by filing documents pursuant to the Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, as may be necessary to correct such untrue statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any such Permitted Free Writing Prospectus comply with such requirements.
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) If this Agreement is terminated (A) by the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 8(a) hereof at any time prior to the offer and sale of Shares with an aggregate Gross Sales Price of $50,000,000 or (B) by Merrill Lynch in accordance with provisions of Section 8(b) hereof after February 28, 2010, and prior to the offer and sale of Shares with an aggregate Gross Sales Price of $50,000,000, in each case under this Agreement and all Terms Agreements, to reimburse Merrill Lynch for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including the reasonable and documented fees and disbursements of a single counsel to Merrill Lynch) incurred by them in connection with the offering contemplated by this Agreement; that the Company will not be obligated to reimburse any expenses pursuant to this Section 4(l)(ii) in excess of $150,000.
provided
 
 
 
 
 
5. . Merrill Lynch's obligation to solicit purchases on an agency basis for Shares or otherwise take any action pursuant to this Agreement (including any Transaction Notice) shall be subject, in addition to the conditions set forth under Section 7, to the satisfaction of the following conditions by 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) on November 6, 2009:
Certain Conditions to Merrill Lynch's Obligation
 
(i) an officers' certificate signed by two of its executive officers certifying as to the matters set forth in Exhibit C hereto;
(ii) an opinion and negative assurance letter of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Company, addressed to Merrill Lynch and dated the date of this Agreement, in the form of Exhibit D hereto;
(iii) an opinion of the General Counsel to the Company, addressed to Merrill Lynch and dated the date of this Agreement, in the form of Exhibit E hereto;
(iv) a "comfort" letter of each of KPMG LLP and Deloitte & Touche LLP, dated as of a date between the date of this Agreement and November 6, 2009 (inclusive) and addressed to Merrill Lynch, in a form reasonably satisfactory to Merrill Lynch and its counsel;
(v) evidence reasonably satisfactory to Merrill Lynch and its counsel that the Shares have been approved for listing on the Exchange, subject only to notice of issuance on or before the date hereof;
(vi) resolutions duly adopted by the Company's board of directors, and certified by an officer of the Company, authorizing the Company's execution of this Agreement and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the issuance of the Shares; and
(vii) such other documents as Merrill Lynch shall reasonably request; and
 
 
6. . The Company further covenants and agrees with Merrill Lynch as follows:
Additional Covenants of the Company
 
 
 
 
special counsel to the Company and of the General Counsel of the Company, each dated and delivered as of the applicable Bring-Down Delivery Date, of the same tenor as the opinions and letter referred to in Sections 5(a)(ii) and 5(a)(iii) hereof, respectively, but modified as necessary to relate to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as amended and supplemented to the time of delivery of such opinions and letter, or, of such opinions and letter, such counsel and General Counsel shall furnish Merrill Lynch with letters substantially to the effect that Merrill Lynch may rely on the opinions and letter referred to in Sections 5(a)(ii) and 5(a)(iii), furnished to Merrill Lynch, to the same extent as though they were dated the date of such letters authorizing reliance (except that statements in such last opinions shall be deemed to relate to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as amended and supplemented to the time of delivery of such letters authorizing reliance).
in lieu
 
 
 
All opinions, letters and other documents referred to in Sections 6(b) through (d) above shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Merrill Lynch. Merrill Lynch will
 
provide the Company with such notice (which may be oral, and in such case, will be confirmed via e-mail or facsimile as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter) as is reasonably practicable under the circumstances when requesting an opinion, letter or other document referred to in Sections 6(b) through (d) above.
The Company and Merrill Lynch agree that the Company will not be required to comply with Sections 6(b), 6(c), 6(d), 6(e) and 6(f) hereof during any period in which the offering of Shares has been suspended pursuant to Sections 2(a) and 2(e) hereof.
In addition, Merrill Lynch agrees not to prepare or use any free writing prospectus relating to the Shares not previously approved in writing by the Company.
7. . Merrill Lynch's obligation to solicit purchases on an agency basis for the Shares or otherwise take any action pursuant to a Transaction Notice that has been accepted by the Company and to purchase the Shares pursuant to any Terms Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Conditions of Merrill Lynch's Obligation
 
(i) The representations, warranties and agreements on the part of the Company herein contained or contained in any certificate of an officer or officers of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof shall be true and correct in all respects.
(ii) The Company shall have performed and observed its covenants and other obligations hereunder and/or under any Terms Agreement, as the case may be, in all material respects.
(iii) In the case of an Agency Transaction, from the Time of Acceptance until the Agency Settlement Date, or, in the case of a Principal Transaction pursuant to a Terms Agreement, from the time of execution and delivery of the Terms Agreement by the Company until the Principal Settlement Date, trading in the Common Stock on the Exchange shall not have been suspended.
(iv) From the date of this Agreement, no event or condition of a type described in Section 3(k)(i) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) or the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the effect of which in the reasonable judgment of Merrill Lynch makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Shares on the applicable Settlement Date on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement or any Terms Agreement, as the case may be, any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus and the Prospectus.
 
(v) Subsequent to the relevant Time of Acceptance, (A) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded any securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Act and (B) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of any securities of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading) in each case that has not been described in any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus issued prior to any related Time of Sale.
(vi) The Shares to be issued pursuant to the Transaction Notice or pursuant to a Terms Agreement, as applicable, shall have been approved for listing on the Exchange, subject only to notice of issuance.
(vii)(A) No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the relevant Settlement Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Shares and (B) no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the relevant Settlement Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Shares.
(viii)(A) No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, no proceeding for such purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Act shall have been received by the Company; (B) the Prospectus and each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Act (in the case of any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Act); (C) all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the satisfaction of Merrill Lynch; and (D) no suspension of the qualification of the Shares for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, and no initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes, will have occurred and be in effect.
(ix) No amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus (excluding any filing of an Incorporated Document) shall have been filed to which Merrill Lynch shall have reasonably objected in writing.
 
 
8. .
Termination
 
(ii) In the case of any sale by the Company pursuant to a Terms Agreement, the obligations of the Company pursuant to such Terms Agreement and this Agreement may not be terminated by the Company without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch.
 
(ii) In the case of any purchase by Merrill Lynch pursuant to a Terms Agreement, the obligations of Merrill Lynch pursuant to such Terms Agreement shall be subject to termination at any time prior to or at the Principal Settlement Date, if, (A) since the time of execution of the Terms Agreement or the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, (i) trading generally shall have been materially suspended or materially limited on or by, as the case may be, any of the NYSE, the American Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, (ii) trading of any securities of the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the counter market, (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in New York shall have been declared by either federal or New York state authorities, (iv) there shall have occurred any attack on, or outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving, the United States, or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis that, in each case, in Merrill Lynch's judgment, is material and adverse or (v) any material disruption of settlements of securities or clearance services in the United States that would materially impair settlement and clearance with respect to the Shares and (B) in the case of any of the events specified in clauses (A)(i) through (v), such event singly or together with any other such event specified in clauses (A)(i) through (v) makes it, in Merrill Lynch's judgment, impracticable to market the
 
Shares on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus. If Merrill Lynch elects to terminate its obligations pursuant to this Section 8(b)(ii), the Company shall be notified promptly in writing.
 
 
9. .
Indemnity and Contribution
 
 
 
 
be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be paid or reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for Merrill Lynch, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of Merrill Lynch shall be designated in writing by Merrill Lynch and any such separate firm for the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested an Indemnifying Person to reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated above, the Indemnifying Person agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such Indemnifying Person of the aforesaid request and (ii) such Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement, unless such Indemnifying Person has (a) paid all undisputed amounts and only failed to pay amounts disputed in good faith and (b) provided detail regarding the reasons for the failure to pay amounts requested by the Indemnified Person. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
 
 
and Merrill Lynch, on the other, shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Shares and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by Merrill Lynch in connection therewith bear to the aggregate Gross Sales Price. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and Merrill Lynch, on the other, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by Merrill Lynch, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
 
10. . All notices and other communications under this Agreement and any Terms Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of communication, and, if to Merrill Lynch, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, One Bryant Park, New York, NY 10036, Fax No. (212) 449-0355, Attention: Usman Khan or by email to usman.khan@baml.com, and, if to the Company, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to the Company at the offices of the Company at CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., 11150 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 1600, Los Angeles, CA 90025, Attn: General Counsel. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Transaction Notices shall be delivered to the Company via e-mail to Keith Collier at keith.collier@cbre.com, with a copy to Cindy Kee at Cindy.Kee@cbre.com, and receipt confirmed by telephone at (310) 606-5031, and an acceptance of a Transaction Notice shall be delivered to Merrill Lynch via facsimile or e-mail to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, One Bryant Park, New York, NY 10036, Fax No. (212) 449-0355, Attention: Usman Khan or usman.khan@baml.com.
Notices
 
11. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that Merrill Lynch is acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to the offering of Shares contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person. Additionally, Merrill Lynch is not advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and Merrill Lynch shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by Merrill Lynch of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of Merrill Lynch and shall not be on behalf of the Company.
No Fiduciary Relationship
12. . The parties acknowledge and agree that all share related numbers contained in this Agreement and any Transaction Notice shall be adjusted to take into account any stock split effected with respect to the Shares.
Adjustments for Stock Splits
13. .
Governing Law; Construction
 
 
14. . Except as set forth below, no Claim may be commenced, prosecuted or continued in any court other than the courts of the State of New York located in the City and County of New York or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which courts shall have nonexclusive jurisdiction over the adjudication of such matters, and the Company consents to the jurisdiction of such courts and personal service with respect thereto. Each of Merrill Lynch and the Company, on its behalf and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on behalf of its stockholders and affiliates, waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim, whether based upon contract, tort or otherwise, in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any Terms Agreement or the performance of services hereunder. The Company agrees that a final and non-appealable judgment in any such action, proceeding or counterclaim brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and may be enforced in any other courts in the jurisdiction of which the Company is or may be subject, by suit upon such judgment.
Submission to Jurisdiction
15. . The agreements set forth herein and in any Terms Agreement have been and are made solely for the benefit of Merrill Lynch and the Company and, to the extent
Parties in Interest
 
provided in Section 9 hereof, the controlling persons, directors and officers referred to in such section, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, personal representatives and executors and administrators. No other person, partnership, association or corporation (including a purchaser, as such purchaser, from Merrill Lynch) shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement or any Terms Agreement.
16. . This Agreement and any Terms Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
17. . This Agreement shall be binding upon Merrill Lynch and the Company and their successors and assigns and any successor or assign of any substantial portion of the Company's and Merrill Lynch's respective businesses and/or assets.
Successors and Assigns
18. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and Merrill Lynch contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or Merrill Lynch pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Shares and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or Merrill Lynch.
Survival
19. . For purposes of this Agreement, except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under Act.
Certain Defined Terms
20. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers
21. . Merrill Lynch, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation, is not a bank and is separate from any affiliated bank, including any U.S. branch or agency of Bank of America, N.A. Because Merrill Lynch is a separately incorporated entity, it is solely responsible for its own contractual obligations and commitments, including obligations with respect to sales and purchases of securities. Securities sold, offered or recommended by Merrill Lynch are not deposits, are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, are not guaranteed by a branch or agency of Bank of America, N.A., and are not otherwise an obligation or responsibility of a branch or agency of Bank of America, N.A.
Miscellaneous
A lending affiliate of Merrill Lynch may have lending relationships with issuers of securities underwritten or privately placed by Merrill Lynch. To the extent required under the securities laws, prospectuses and other disclosure documents for securities underwritten or privately placed by Merrill Lynch will disclose the existence of any such lending relationships and whether the proceeds of the issue will be used to repay debts owed to affiliates of Merrill Lynch.
Merrill Lynch and one or more of its affiliates may make markets in the Common Stock or other securities of the Company, in connection with which they may buy and sell, as agent or principal, for long or short account, shares of the Common Stock or other securities of the Company, at the same time that Merrill Lynch is acting as agent pursuant to this Agreement;
 
provided that Merrill Lynch acknowledges and agrees that any such transactions are not being, and shall not be deemed to have been, undertaken at the request or direction of, or for the account of, the Company, and that the Company has and shall have no control over any decision by Merrill Lynch and its affiliates to enter into any such transactions.
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the understanding among the Company and Merrill Lynch, please so indicate in the space provided below for the purpose, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company and Merrill Lynch.
 
Accepted and agreed to as of the
date first above written:
 
 
Schedule I
 
 
 
Exhibit A
, 20
                    
    
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
Dear Sirs:
CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and in the Distribution Agreement, dated November 3, 2009 (the "Distribution Agreement"), between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch"), to issue and sell to Merrill Lynch the securities specified in the Schedule hereto (the "Purchased Securities") [, and solely for the purpose of covering over-allotments, to grant to Merrill Lynch the option to purchase the additional securities specified in the Schedule hereto (the "Additional Securities")]. Unless otherwise defined below, capitalized terms defined in the Distribution Agreement shall have the same meanings when used herein.
[Merrill Lynch shall have the right to purchase from the Company all or a portion of the Additional Securities as may be necessary to cover over-allotments made in connection with the offering of the Purchased Securities, at the same purchase price per share to be paid by Merrill Lynch to the Company for the Purchased Securities. This option may be exercised by Merrill Lynch at any time (but not more than once) on or before the thirtieth day following the date hereof, by written notice to the Company. Such notice shall set forth the aggregate number of shares of Additional Securities as to which the option is being exercised, and the date and time when the Additional Securities are to be delivered (such date and time being herein referred to as the "Option Settlement Date"); , , that the Option Settlement Date shall not be earlier than the Settlement Date (as set forth in the Schedule hereto) nor earlier than the second business day after the date on which the option shall have been exercised nor later than the fifth business day after the date on which the option shall have been exercised. Payment of the purchase price for the Additional Securities shall be made at the Option Settlement Date in the same manner and at the same office as the payment for the Purchased Securities.]
provided
however
Each of the provisions of the Distribution Agreement not specifically related to the solicitation by Merrill Lynch, as agent of the Company, of offers to purchase securities is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and shall be deemed to be part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. Each of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth therein shall be deemed to have been made as of the date of this Terms Agreement [and] [,] the Settlement Date [and any Option Settlement Date].
An amendment to the Registration Statement (as defined in the Distribution Agreement), or a supplement to the Prospectus, as the case may be, relating to the Purchased Securities [and the Additional Securities], in the form heretofore delivered to Merrill Lynch is now proposed to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Distribution Agreement which are incorporated herein by reference, the Company agrees to issue and sell to Merrill Lynch and the latter agrees to purchase from the Company, the Purchased Securities at the time and place and at the purchase price set forth in the Schedule hereto.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Terms Agreement or any Terms Agreement to the contrary, the Company consents to Merrill Lynch trading in the Common Stock for Merrill Lynch's own account and for the account of its clients, consistent with its normal trading and sales practices and applicable law and regulations, at the same time as sales of the Shares occur pursuant to this Terms Agreement.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us a counterpart hereof, whereupon this Terms Agreement, including those provisions of the Distribution Agreement incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement between Merrill Lynch and the Company.
 
Accepted and agreed as of
the date first above written:
 
 
Title of Purchased Securities [and Additional Securities]:
Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share
Number of Shares of Purchased Securities:
[]
[Number of Shares of Additional Securities:]
[]
[Price to Public:]
[]
Purchase Price by Merrill Lynch:
[]
Method of and Specified Funds for Payment of Purchase Price:
[By wire transfer to a bank account specified by the Company in same day funds.]
Method of Delivery:
[To Merrill Lynch's account, or the account of Merrill Lynch's designee, at The Depository Trust Company via DWAC in return for payment of the purchase price.]
Settlement Date:
[], 20[09][10]
Closing Location:
[]
Documents to be Delivered:
The following documents referred to in the Distribution Agreement shall be delivered as a condition to the closing (which documents shall be dated on or as of the date of the Terms Agreement to which this Scheduled is annexed):
(1) the officers' certificate referred to in Section 5(a)(i);
(2) the opinions and negative assurance letter referred to in Section 5(a)(ii) and (iii);
(3) the "comfort" letter referred to in Section 5(a)(iv);
(4) the opinion and negative assurance letter referred to in Section 5(b); and
(5) such other documents as Merrill Lynch shall reasonably request.
[Lockup:]
   []
 
Exhibit B
, 20
                
    
[            ]
[                        ]
Attention:
                    
VIA FACSIMILE
Dear :
                
This Notice sets forth the terms of the agreement of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") with CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), relating to the issuance and sale of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, pursuant to the Distribution Agreement between the Company and Merrill Lynch, dated November 3, 2009 (the "Agreement"). Unless otherwise defined below, capitalized terms defined in the Agreement shall have the same meanings when used herein.
By countersigning or otherwise indicating in writing the Company's acceptance of this Notice (an "Acceptance"), the Company shall have agreed with Merrill Lynch to engage in the following transaction:
 
The Agency Transaction set forth in this Notice will not be binding on the Company or Merrill Lynch unless and until the Company delivers its Acceptance; provided, however, that neither the Company nor Merrill Lynch will be bound by the terms of this Notice unless the Company delivers its Acceptance by am/pm (New York time) on [the date hereof/, 20].
        
            
    
The Agency Transaction, if it becomes binding on the parties, shall be subject to all of the representations, warranties, covenants and other terms and conditions of the Agreement, except to the extent amended or modified hereby, all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference. Each of the representations and warranties set forth in the Agreement shall be deemed to have been made at and as of the date of the Company's Acceptance and on any Purchase Date and any Settlement Date.
If the foregoing conforms to your understanding of our agreement, please so indicate by providing your Acceptance in the manner contemplated by the Agreement.
 
ACCEPTED as of the date
first above written
 
[Note: The Company's Acceptance may also be evidenced by a separate written acceptance referencing this Notice and delivered in accordance with the Agreement]
 
Exhibit C
1. The representations and warranties of the Company in the Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof as though made on and as of this date;
2. The Company has performed all obligations and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied pursuant to the Agreement at or prior to the date hereof;
3. The Company's Registration Statement (File No. 333-155269) under the Act is effective; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of such Registration Statement has been issued and no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Act has been initiated or, to the knowledge of the undersigned threatened by the Commission; no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Act has been received by the Company; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission have been complied with; and
4. Except (i) as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the financial condition, results of operations or business of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and (ii) as disclosed in or contemplated by the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
5. The Registration Statement did not, as of the time of its initial effectiveness, and does not, as amended or supplemented, as of each Bring-Down Delivery Date, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; as of the date hereof, the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, together with all of the issued Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses, if any, will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
Exhibit D
Exhibit E
 


