FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20100402131916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
 
Loan Modification Agreement
 
On March 29, 2010, the Company, CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc. (Services), a subsidiary of the Company, certain subsidiaries of Services, the lenders parties thereto, and Credit Suisse AG (formerly known as Credit Suisse), as administrative agent and collateral agent, entered into a Loan Modification Agreement (the Loan Modification Agreement) amending the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2009 (as amended, the Credit Agreement), among the Company, Services, certain subsidiaries of Services, the lenders parties thereto and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Loan Modification Agreement or the Credit Agreement. The Loan Modification Agreement extended maturities and eliminated scheduled amortization on $115,042,631.01 of Loans under the Credit Agreement.
 
The Loan Modification Agreement amended the Credit Agreement to, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above description of the Loan Modification Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following document is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 2, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT dated as of March 29, 2010 (this ), among CB RICHARD ELLIS SERVICES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ), CB RICHARD ELLIS GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (), the Accepting Lenders (as defined below) and CREDIT SUISSE AG (), as administrative agent (in such capacity, the ).
Agreement
U.S. Borrower
Holdings
CS
Administrative Agent
 
Reference is made to the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 24, 2009 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), among Holdings, the U.S. Borrower, the other Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto, and CS, as Administrative Agent and as Collateral Agent.
A.  
Credit Agreement
 
Pursuant to Section 9.20(a) of the Credit Agreement, Holdings and the U.S. Borrower made, by written notice to the Administrative Agent dated March 12, 2010 (such notice, including the Summary of Principal Changed Terms attached thereto as Exhibit A, the ), a Loan Modification Offer to the Lenders to make certain Permitted Amendments as described therein.
B.  
Offer Notice
 
The Lenders party hereto (the ) are willing to agree to such Permitted Amendments as of the Loan Modification Effective Date (as defined below), on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein and in the Credit Agreement.
C.  
Accepting Lenders
 
Accordingly, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
  Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  The rules of construction set forth in Section 1.02 of the Credit Agreement shall apply equally to this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be a Loan Modification Agreement for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
SECTION 1.  
Defined Terms; Terms Generally
.
 
Each of the Accepting Lenders set forth on hereto (the ) agrees that the principal amount of its Tranche A-4 Loans set forth on Schedule I shall hereby be converted into Other Term Loans (the ) in a like principal amount and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein:
SECTION 2.  
Loan Modifications.  
Schedule I
Tranche B-1A Lenders
Tranche B-1A Loans
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
.  To induce the other parties hereto to enter into this Agreement, Holdings and the U.S. Borrower represent and warrant to each of the Accepting Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Collateral Agent that, after giving effect to this Amendment, (a) the representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date; and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
SECTION 3.  
Representations and Warranties
 
  The modifications of Loans provided for in Section 2 above will become effective on a date to be designated by the U.S. Borrower and the Administrative Agent, subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent on or prior to such date (the date of such effectiveness being called the  ):
SECTION 4.  
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Modifications
.
Loan
Modification
Effective Date
 
 
5
 
 
The Administrative Agent shall have received, on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, a favorable written opinion of (i) the General Counsel or Assistant General Counsel of the U.S. Borrower, substantially to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Agreement and (ii) Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for Holdings and the U.S. Borrower, substantially to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Agreement, in each case (A) dated as of the Loan Modification Effective Date, (B) addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Accepting Lenders, and (C) covering such other matters relating to this Agreement and the Permitted Amendments as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, and Holdings and the U.S. Borrower hereby request such counsel to deliver such opinions.
(a)  
 
The Administrative Agent shall have received (i) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of each of Holdings, the U.S. Borrower and the Subsidiary Guarantors that are a Domestic Subsidiaries (the ) dated as of the Loan Modification Effective Date and certifying (A) either (x) that none of the by-laws, certificates, articles of incorporation, partnership agreements or other comparable organizational documents of such Domestic Loan Party (the ) have been amended since February 5, 2010 and that the Organizational Documents continue to be in full force and effect and/or (y) to the extent that the Organizational Documents have been amended since such date, that attached to such certificate are true and complete copies of such amended Organizational Documents and that such amended Organizational Documents are in full force and effect; and (B) that attached to such certificate is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors or partners (or comparable governing body) of such Domestic Loan Party authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents to which such person is a party, and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect; (ii) a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary executing the certificate pursuant to clause (i) above; and (iii) such other documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
(b)  
Domestic Loan Parties
Organizational Documents
 
The Administrative Agent shall have received (on behalf of itself and the Accepting Lenders) all fees (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the Modification Fees set forth in the Offer Notice) and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Loan Modification Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the U.S. Borrower and Holdings hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
(c)  
 
 
6
 
 
The Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Agreement which, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Domestic Loan Parties, the Accepting Lenders and the Administrative Agent.
(d)  
 
  For the avoidance of doubt and without limiting the application thereof, the parties hereto hereby agree that the provisions of Section 9.05 of the Credit Agreement shall apply to the execution and delivery of, and the performance of the parties respective obligations under, this Agreement.
SECTION 5.  
Certain Agreements
.
 
  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
SECTION 6.  
Applicable Law
.
 
  All notices hereunder shall be given in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.01 of the Credit Agreement.
SECTION 7.  
Notices
.
 
  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract, and shall become effective as provided in Section 4 above.  Delivery of an executed signature page to this Agreement by facsimile or other customary means of electronic transmission (e.g., pdf) shall be as effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this Agreement.
SECTION 8.  
Counterparts
.
 
  The headings and cover page of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
SECTION 9.  
Headings
.
 
  This Agreement may not be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified other than in a writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
SECTION 10.  
Amendment.
 
  Each of the Guarantors (other than Guarantors that are Foreign Subsidiaries) hereby acknowledges its receipt of a copy of this Agreement and its review of the terms and conditions hereof, and each of such Guarantors hereby consents to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, and hereby confirms its guarantee and, as applicable, its grant of Collateral under the Collateral Agreement and agrees that such guarantee and any such grant of Collateral shall continue to be in full force and effect and shall inure to the benefit of the Secured Parties, including the Accepting Lenders as such in respect of their Loans and/or Commitments and the other Obligations owed to them from time to time.
SECTION 11.  
Acknowledgement of Guarantors
.
 
 
7
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
CB Holdco, Inc.
CB Richard Ellis Investors, Inc.
CB Richard Ellis Investors, L.L.C.
CB Richard Ellis, Inc.
CB/TCC Holdings LLC
CB/TCC, LLC
CBRE Capital Markets of Texas, LP
CBRE Capital Markets, Inc.
CBRE Loan Services, Inc.
CBRE Technical Services, LLC
CBRE/LJM Mortgage Company L.L.C.
CBRE/LJM-Nevada, Inc.
HoldPar A
HoldPar B
Insignia/ESG Capital Corporation
The Polacheck Company, Inc.
Trammell Crow Company
Trammell Crow Services, Inc.
Vincent F. Martin, Jr., Inc.
Westmark Real Estate Acquisition Partnership, L.P.
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
TC Houston, Inc.
TCCT Real Estate, Inc.
TCDFW, Inc.
 
 
15
 


