FILE:CBG/CBG-8K-20110707145824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the matters described herein.
 
As previously disclosed, on February 15, 2011, CB Richard Ellis, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and other affiliates of the Company entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") with ING Real Estate Investment Management Holding B.V., a private limited liability company established under the laws of the Netherlands ("ING REIM"), and others, under which the Company agreed to indirectly acquire substantially all of ING REI Clarion Holding, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of ING REIM ("CRES") after the sale or transfer by ING REIM of the Clarion Partners business unit of CRES (which ING REIM completed on June 9, 2011). In addition, the Company agreed to indirectly acquire certain assets held by Nationale-Nederlanden Intervest II, B.V., a private limited liability company established under the law of the Netherlands, in three ING REIM managed funds ("CRES Co-Investment Assets", and the purchase of CRES together with the purchase of the CRES Co-Investment Assets, the "Transaction"). On July 1, 2011, the Company completed the Transaction, acquiring CRES for $323,895,579 and CRES Co-Investment Assets for an aggregate amount of $58,565,858, each in cash.
Representations and Warranties
The foregoing description of the Share Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Share Purchase Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 1.01 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated February 16, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Share Purchase Agreement has been incorporated by reference to provide investors and stockholders with information regarding its terms. The Share Purchase Agreement is not intended to provide any other factual information about the Company. The Share Purchase Agreement contains representations and warranties that the parties to the Share Purchase Agreement made to and solely for the benefit of each other. The assertions embodied in such representations and warranties are qualified by information contained in confidential disclosure schedules that the parties exchanged in connection with signing the Share Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, investors and stockholders should not rely on such representations and warranties as characterizations of the actual state of facts or circumstances, as they were only made as of the date of the Share Purchase Agreement and are modified in important part by the underlying disclosure schedules. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of such representations and warranties may have changed after the date of the Share Purchase Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the Company's public disclosures.
 
 
The following documents are attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


