FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20030421154121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 21, 2003, the registrant announced first-quarter 2003 net earnings of $91 million, or $1.32 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $529 million, or $7.63 per diluted share, in the same period last year. First-quarter net sales of $2.7 billion increased 6 percent from the same period last year.
 
The registrant also revised its full-year 2003 earnings forecast to $5.90-$6.10 per share from a previous earnings forecast for 2003 of $6.20-$6.40 per share.
 
Being filed in accordance with Item 12.
 
Item 7.Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Copy of press release dated April 21, 2003.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 21, 2003
 

: Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT
 
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738 thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Media:
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced first-quarter 2003 results that were in line with expectations.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., April 21, 2003
 
Net earnings of $91 million, or $1.32 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $529 million, or $7.63 per diluted share, in the same period last year. The first-quarter loss in 2002 included one-time charges totaling $8.95 per diluted share for goodwill impairment (relating to a change in accounting principle) and restructuring activities.
 
First-quarter net sales of $2.7 billion increased 6 percent from the same period last year. Excluding consolidated sales from the company's 2002 acquisitionsPolar S.A. of Poland and Vitromatic S.A. de C.V. of Mexiconet sales increased 2 percent.
 
"Our businesses delivered a solid performance for the quarter, despite uncertainty in global markets and generally weak industry demand," said David R. Whitwam, Whirlpool Corporation's chairman and chief executive officer. "Our operations significantly improved productivity and lowered costs, which helped partially offset year-over-year increases in pension, healthcare, energy and material costs. Benefits from restructuring also contributed to the earnings performance."
 
First-Quarter Global Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sales of $1.8 billion increased 5 percent from the prior year record period. Excluding Whirlpool Mexico, sales were up slightly. Operating profit declined 12 percent, due primarily to year-over-year increases in pension and employee-related healthcare costs. The company is currently evaluating additional measures to reduce the impact of these significant year-over-year cost increases. Savings from productivity improvements and restructuring partially offset the decline.
Whirlpool North America's
 
U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7) declined nearly 2 percent from the prior year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year industry shipments to be flat compared to last year's level. The company had previously forecast an industry increase of 2 percent.
 
During the quarter, continued strong demand for the Whirlpool brand Duet
washer and dryer pair strengthened the company's leadership in the high-efficiency laundry segment. Home Magazine selected the KitchenAid brand briva
in-sink dishwasher as one of 12 winners of the publication's 2003 Kitchen and Bath Awards for ingenious performance innovation and artisan-inspired design.
 
sales of $564 million increased 19 percent from the prior year period. (Excluding currency translations, sales decreased 1.8 percent.) The results reflect a solid performance in a challenging market where industry unit shipments declined by approximately 3 percent. Despite weak economic growth and low consumer confidence that negatively affected industry demand and pricing, operating profit doubled from the prior year period. Cost savings from improved total cost productivity and the benefits of restructuring contributed to the improvement.
Whirlpool Europe's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year industry shipments to decline 3 percent from last year's level. The company had previously forecast an industry decline of 1-to-2 percent.
 
During the quarter, the Whirlpool brand Dreamspace
washerWhirlpool Europe's version of Duet
received top honors in comparison tests conducted by two leading consumer magazines in France.
 
 
sales of $306 million decreased 8 percent from the prior year period. (Excluding currency translations, sales increased 26 percent.) Market demand in Brazil declined 12 percent, while Whirlpool's unit shipments increased by 6 percent. Exports of major appliances through Whirlpool's global distribution network increased significantly. Despite the challenging external environment and lower tax credits, operating profit margin improved by 1.3 percentage points from the prior year period. The improvement was driven by product price increases and cost savings from productivity and restructuring efforts.
Whirlpool Latin America's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year industry unit shipments to decline 3-to-5 percent from last year's level. The company had previously forecast flat industry shipments.
 
During the quarter, Brastemp brand introduced the Direct Cool
refrigerator. Consul brand received the "Best in Refrigerators" award from the Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion and Statistics.
 
sales of $92 million improved 8 percent from the prior year period. (Excluding currency translations, sales improved 4 percent.) The success of new product introductions helped drive the sales improvement throughout the region. India and China continued to record market share growth. Operating profit was moderately affected by price pressures and material cost increases.
Whirlpool Asia's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company continues to expect full-year industry shipments to be flat to slightly up from last year's level.
 
More than 30 new product models were introduced during the quarter, including Whirlpool brand's Direct Cool
refrigerators with the Fast Forward Ice
feature and a complete product range of refrigerators, clothes washers and microwave ovens.
 
Outlook
 
"We continue to see uncertain economic and geopolitical environments in most markets in which we operate," said Whitwam. "In this environment, Whirlpool operations will maintain the emphasis on productivity and other cost saving efforts as our global brands continue their rapid rate of innovative product introductions to consumers worldwide. In addition, we are evaluating measures to reduce the impact from year-over-year increases in pension and employee-related healthcare costs."
 
Whitwam added: "Based on our revised industry outlook for Whirlpool's key markets around the world, we are revising full-year earnings-per-share guidance to $5.90-$6.10."
 
The company had previously forecast full-year earnings per share of $6.20 to $6.40. Additional operating segment information is available in the "Investors" section of At 9:30 a.m. (EDT) Monday, April 21, 2003, the company will be hosting a conference call, which can be heard by visiting and clicking on the "Investors" button and then the "Conference Call Audio" menu item.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $11 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research
 
centers around the globe. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Brastemp, Bauknecht, Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2003 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


