FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20030723195641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 24, 2003, the registrant announced second-quarter 2003 net earnings of $94 million, or $1.35 per diluted share, compared to $63 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, in the same period last year. The text of the press release is being attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
: Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738 thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Media:
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com               
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced second-quarter 2003 net earnings of $94 million, or $1.35 per diluted share, compared to $63 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, in the same period last year.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., July 24, 2003
 
Second-quarter net sales of $2.99 billion increased 9 percent from last year. Excluding consolidated sales from the company's 2002 acquisitionsPolar S.A. of Poland and Vitromatic S.A. de C.V. of Mexicoand currency translations, net sales increased 2 percent.
 
"This performance reflects the solid contributions from our global businesses and brands, including the introductions of innovative new products worldwide," said David R. Whitwam, Whirlpool Corporation's chairman and chief executive officer. "The results also demonstrate the positive impact from continuous improvements in productivity, and from actions we are taking to align the company's cost structure with current economic and industry conditions."
 
Second-quarter earnings include a previously announced non-cash curtailment gain of $13.5 million (after tax), or $0.19 per diluted share, from a change to the company's U.S. retiree healthcare plans. The earnings also reflect charges of $11 million (after tax), or $0.16 per diluted share, primarily for final costs related to a recall of certain microwave oven hood combination products in 2001.
 
Second-quarter 2002 earnings included a restructuring and related charge of $19 million (after tax), or $0.26 per diluted share, and an asset write-down of $22 million (after tax), or $0.31 per diluted share, related to a minority business interest.
 
Operating profit of $195 million for second quarter 2003 included the previously mentioned recall charges, as well as increased pension expenses and the elimination of Brazilian tax credits. Operating profit also reflects significantly lower operating costs from spending controls, lower compensation expense and improvements in material costs and productivity.
 
"As we discussed previously, our challenge from pension costs and Brazilian tax credits, year-over-year, amounted to approximately $0.34 per share in the second quarter," said Whitwam. "Our aggressive cost reduction efforts during the quarter, combined with the company's ongoing productivity improvement and restructuring benefits, largely offset this challenge."
 
Second-Quarter Global Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second-Quarter Region Review
 
sales of $1.96 billion increased 6.7 percent from the prior year period. Excluding Whirlpool Mexico, sales were up 1.7 percent. Operating profit declined 5 percent, due primarily to the recall charges and year-over-year increases in pension and employee-related healthcare costs. The decline was partially offset by the curtailment gain, lower compensation expense, spending controls and savings from productivity improvements.
Whirlpool North America's
 
Record shipments reflected continuing strong consumer demand for Whirlpool and KitchenAid branded products, including the Whirlpool Duet clothes washer and dryer pair, the Whirlpool Conquest side-by-side refrigerator and the KitchenAid Architect series of stainless-steel kitchen appliances.
 
U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7*) increased 0.8 percent from the prior year period, and are expected to grow moderately in the second half of the year. Full-year shipments are expected to increase by approximately 1-to-2 percent.
 
During the quarter, the company introduced the KitchenAid Pro Line series at the 2003 Kitchen/Bath Industry Show in Atlanta. The KitchenAid Pro Line series is a collection of
 
major and countertop appliances featuring distinctive design and superior professional-level performance.
 
sales of $628 million increased 23.7 percent from the prior year period. (Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 2 percent.) Strong consumer demand for new innovative products, including the Whirlpool Dreamspace clothes washer, the Whirlpool Conquest side-by-side refrigerator, and the Whirlpool Mini-BI microwave oven, were reflected in the increase. Operating profit, which was affected by market price declines, increased due to significant improvement in productivity and volume growth.
Whirlpool Europe's
 
During the quarter, appliance industry unit shipments increased by 2-to-3 percent from the prior year period, and are expected to be moderately higher in the second half of 2003. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry shipments to grow by 1-to-2 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $318 million were flat compared with the prior year period. (Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 10 percent.) Industry shipments in Brazil declined 22 percent. Despite a challenging economic and industry environment, as well as the expected elimination of tax credits during the quarter and higher material costs, operating profit increased by 8.2 percent and operating margin improved from the prior year period. The results reflect improved product pricing, growth of appliance exports and cost savings from productivity initiatives.
Whirlpool Latin America's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry unit shipments to decline 12-to-15 percent from last year's level.
 
During the quarter, Brastemp brand introduced Luminata, a complete line of premium kitchen appliances for Brazilian consumers. Also, the Consul brand was named a top-ten Superbrand in Brazil by the magazine Revista Expressao. The brand was honored for its refrigeration and air conditioning product lines.
 
sales of $118 million increased 7.4 percent from the prior year period. (Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 3 percent.) The success of new product introductions and expanded distribution helped drive the sales improvement throughout the region. Operating profit was affected by market price declines, increased provisions for operating reserves and the impact from SARS, which drove a 15-to-20 percent retail sales decline in the Hong Kong region.
Whirlpool Asia's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year appliance industry shipments in the region to increase 3 percent from last year's level.
 
During the quarter, Whirlpool India introduced the Direct Cool refrigerator with the fast forward ice option that gives Indian homemakers in hot climates the ability to rapidly make ice. In China, the company introduced the Whirlpool Jupiter clothes washer with Season Sensor, a technology that automatically adjusts the wash cycle for seasonal changes in water temperature.
Outlook
 
"Based on our current view of second-half economic improvement and industry demand in key markets, as well as the anticipated benefits from new product introductions, benefits from acquisitions, and ongoing improvements in cost productivity, we continue to expect full-year earnings-per-share of $5.90-$6.10," said Whitwam.
 
Additional operating segment information is available in the "Investors" section of At 9:30 a.m. (EDT) Thursday, July 24, 2003, the company will be hosting a conference call, which can be heard by visiting and clicking on the "Investors" button and then the "Conference Call Audio" menu item.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
*T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $11 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2003 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
 


