FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20041020061945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 20, 2004, the registrant announced its third-quarter 2004 net earnings of $101 million, or $1.50 per diluted share, compared to $105 million, or $1.48 per diluted share, in the same period last year. The registrant also announced it expects full-year earnings for 2004 to be in the range of $5.85 to $5.95 per share, versus the previous guidance of $6.20 to $6.35 per share. The text of the press release is attached as an Exhibit to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Attached is a press release dated October 20, 2004 being furnished as part of this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
CONTACT: Whirlpool Corporation
Media: Tom Kline, 269/923-3738
thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Financial: Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced third-quarter 2004 net earnings of $101 million, or $1.50 per diluted share, compared to $105 million, or $1.48 per diluted share, in the same period last year. Third-quarter net sales of $3.32 billion increased 6.6 percent from the same period last year. Excluding currency translations, net sales increased approximately 4 percent.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., Oct. 20, 2004
 
"During the third quarter we had record sales on continued strong consumer demand for our brands around the world. Market growth remained positive, although growth rates declined moderately from first-half levels," said Jeff Fettig, Whirlpool's chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
Net earnings-per-share were affected by increases in material and logistics costs and slightly higher pension expense. These costs were mitigated by the benefits of a lower effective tax rate, reduced discretionary spending, lower incentive compensation and lower average shares outstanding.
 
Year-to-date sales of $9.59 billion increased 8.7 percent compared to the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, year-to-date sales increased approximately 6 percent. Year-to-date net earnings of $4.46 per diluted share increased 7.7 percent from the prior-year period.
 
Fettig added: "Our quarterly operating results were negatively impacted by raw material cost increases and record high oil prices. The magnitude of these cost increases could not be offset by our record level of productivity and overall business spending controls. Additionally, material and component supply shortages impacted our sales."
 
"We have taken specific actions to deal with this environment, which include driving higher levels of productivity in all business operations, implementing price increases of approximately 5-to-10 percent in most key markets around the world, including the U.S., and accelerating the rate of innovation of new products to the market.
 
"We believe our actions in total will enable us to overcome these significant cost increases, but the full effect of these benefits will not be realized until 2005. As a result, we now expect our full-year earnings per share to be in the range of $5.85-to-$5.95, versus our previous guidance of $6.20-to-$6.35, and free cash flow
(1)
in the $300 million range," Fettig said.
Third-Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third-Quarter Region Review
 
sales of $2.1 billion increased 1.8 percent from the prior-year period.
Whirlpool North America's
 
The operation delivered third-quarter records in sales, unit shipments, and manufacturing productivity. Operating results also benefited from improved brand and product mix, strong SG&A leverage, and higher average sales values based on the success of the company's product innovation in the market. Despite these improvements, significantly higher material and logistics costs, coupled with shipping delays triggered by select material shortages, drove operating profit below the prior-year period.
To help offset the ongoing high levels of material and logistics costs, Whirlpool North America expects to continue to improve productivity, implement its recently announced price increase, and accelerate the pace of new product launches across all brands throughout 2005.
 
U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7*) increased 5.4 percent from the prior-year period. Full-year industry shipments are expected to increase by approximately 8 percent.
 
sales of $783 million increased 11.2 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 2 percent.
Whirlpool Europe's
 
Whirlpool Europe delivered a strong operating performance for the quarter, including record third-quarter sales, strong productivity and cash flow, and improved brand and product mix. Operating profit increased 31 percent from the prior-year period despite slowing consumer demand and rising raw material costs. Whirlpool Europe's continued performance improvement is due in part to the operation's success in expanding its presence in the premium cooking and built-in market segments, driven by innovative products like the new JetChef three-in-one oven and the Mini BI built in oven.
 
Appliance industry unit shipments were up approximately 1-to-2 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year industry shipments to grow approximately 1-to-2 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $426 million increased 32 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, the sales increase was essentially the same.
Whirlpool Latin America's
 
Consumer demand improved as the Brazilian economy showed continuing signs of strength. Regional unit shipments increased significantly, as did exports to the company's global distribution network. Operating profit improved 24 percent from the prior-year period due to the success of product introductions in the first half of the year, price increases, brand and product mix management, and productivity improvements. The gain was partially offset by increases in raw material and logistics costs.
 
Shipments of the Consul Ideale clothes washera new affordable product targeting an untapped market of first-time buyerscontributed to improved revenue and market share in the quarter. The Ideale washer is an example of the company's strategic use of innovation to extend its brands to new and emerging markets.
 
Appliance industry unit shipments in Brazil increased approximately 26 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry unit shipments to increase approximately 15-to-18 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $81 million declined 11.7 percent from the prior-year period in a mixed market environment within the region. Excluding currency translations, sales declined approximately 14 percent. Slowing demand in China, rising raw material costs and the impact from reducing trade inventory levels in India resulted in an operating loss of $10 million for the quarter.
Whirlpool Asia's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry unit shipments to increase approximately 5 percent from last year's level.
OUTLOOK
 
Fettig concluded: "In the current environment, our business is being challenged by significant increases in material and logistics costs, as well as shortages of key materials and components. We have adjusted to this environment by aggressively driving higher levels of productivity, by implementing appropriate price increases and by accelerating the rate of new product innovation to the market. Our global operating platform, strong consumer brands and innovation capabilities provide us with the necessary tools to overcome these challenges and will enable us to deliver a solid year of operating results in 2004 and position us well going into 2005."
 
Note (1): The table below reconciles cash provided by operating activities as prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to free cash flow. Management believes this comparison of free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the Company's ability to fund its activities. Free cash flow is cash from operations after capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of fixed assets and dividends.
 
 
Additional operating segment information is available in the "Investors" section of www.whirlpoolcorp.com . At 9:30 a.m. (ET) Wednesday, October 20, 2004, the company will be hosting a conference call, which can be heard by visiting www.whirlpoolcorp.com and clicking on the "Investors" button and then the "Conference Call Audio" menu item.
 
*T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at www.whirlpoolcorp.com .
Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Brastemp, Bauknecht, Consul
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 


