FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20041222151245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
(i) On December 21, 2004, the registrant's board of directors approved nonemployee director compensation arrangements effective January 1, 2005 as follows:
 
Annual Cash Retainer
 
$60,000 (plus $5,000 for Committee Chairs of the Corporate Governance, Human Resources, and Finance Committees and $10,000 for the Committee Chair of the Audit Committee.)
 
Equity Compensation (Pending Approval of a New Director Equity Compensation Plan by Shareholders at the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders Scheduled to be Held April 19, 2005)
 
 
 
 
The following benefits for nonemployee directors, which have been in place for many years, shall continue to be provided to the nonemployee directors by the Corporation:
Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nonemployee directors may defer cash and equity compensation under the Whirlpool Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan II for Non-Employee Directors.
Compensation Deferral
 
(ii) Also on December 21, 2004, the registrant's board of directors approved the adoption of the Whirlpool Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan II for Non-Employee Directors effective January 1, 2005. The purpose of the plan is to enable nonemployee directors to defer cash and non-cash compensation and shall be effective with respect to any compensation payable to an outside directors for services performed on or after January 1, 2005. The text of the plan is attached as Exhibit 10 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10
 
 
 
 
Contents
 
Article 1. Plan Purpose, Eligibility and Effective Date
 
1.1 Purpose
 
The Plan has been established for the mutual benefit of the Company and Plan Participants with its primary purpose to allow for the voluntary deferral by an Outside Director of the receipt of Compensation to future years.
 
1.2 Effective Date
 
The Plan shall be effective with respect to any Compensation payable to an Outside Director for services performed on or after January 1, 2005.
 
1.3 Eligibility and Participation Rules
 
A member of the Company's Board of Directors who is not an employee of the Company, or of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, shall become eligible to participate in the Plan upon being elected to the Board of Directors. Participation in the Plan will terminate if (i) the Participant ceases to be a Director or becomes an employee of the Company or of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or (ii) the Participant dies, whichever event occurs first.
 
Article 2. Definitions
 
2.1 Definitions
 
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (2) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Plan Participant's employer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Plan Administration
 
3.1 Plan Administration
 
The Company shall have full power and discretionary authority to construe, interpret and administer the Plan.
 
3.2 Notifications
 
Each election to defer Compensation pursuant to this Plan and any amendment to such election shall be made on a notification form ("Notification") provided by the Company and signed by the Outside Director. Each Notification shall, if it is submitted in a timely manner pursuant to Article 4, be effective when it is received by the Secretary of the Company. Notifications not received in a timely manner shall be null and void
ab initio.
 
Article 4. Election to Defer Compensation
 
4.1 Timing of Elections
 
At any time prior to December 31 of each Year, an Outside Director may elect to defer receipt of all or a part of the Outside Director's Compensation to be earned during the next succeeding Fiscal Year or Years. Any election by a new Outside Director to defer Compensation shall be made with respect to services to be performed subsequent to the election and shall be made within thirty (30) days after the date the Outside Director becomes eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
4.2 Content of Elections
 
Any election to defer Compensation shall specify the percentage of Compensation to be deferred and the manner in which the portion of the Participant's Account attributable to Deferred Cash Compensation shall be paid (as set forth in Section 6.1). If a Plan Participant elects to defer less than all of his or her Cash Compensation, his or her deferrals of Cash Compensation will be made on a pro rata basis from his or her quarterly Compensation during the Fiscal Year. Participants may elect to receive Deferred Stock Units in lieu of Stock Awards in increments of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%. If a Plan Participant elects to receive Deferred Stock Units in an increment of less than 100%, Deferred Stock Units will, in accordance with the election of the Director, be granted in lieu of Stock Awards pursuant to the Equity Plan under which they are granted at the conclusion of each annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company. An election may also specify the beneficiary(ies) to receive any unpaid amounts in the event of the Plan Participant's death.
 
4.3 Duration of Elections
 
Any election to defer Compensation shall continue in force with respect to all succeeding terms of the Plan Participant's service, unless the Outside Director advises the Company by a subsequent Notification, prior to any December 31, that the Outside Director has elected to modify or terminate such election to defer with respect to Compensation to be earned during the next succeeding Fiscal Year or Years. The amount accumulated pursuant to the deferral shall continue to be subject to the provisions of the Plan.
 
Article 5. Deferred Compensation Accounts
 
5.1 Accounts
 
A Deferred Compensation Account shall be created and maintained for each Plan Participant.
 
5.2 Crediting of Deferred Compensation
 
Each Plan Participant's Account shall be credited on the last day of each calendar quarter with the amount of any Deferred Cash Compensation earned during that quarter and each Plan Participant's Account shall be credited immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company with the amount of any Deferred Stock Units.
 
5.3 Crediting of Investment Returns
 
 
 
5.4 No Right to Company Assets
 
The plan is not funded. The Accounts shall be a reserve on the books of the Company. No funds or common stock of the Company shall be segregated or set aside by virtue of such reserve for the payment of amounts in the Accounts. Benefits will be paid solely from the Company's general funds and are not secured by any form of trust, escrow or otherwise. The rights of Plan Participants with respect to amounts credited to their Accounts shall be those of general creditors.
 
Article 6. Distribution of Deferred Compensation
 
6.1 Distribution Elections; Form and Timing of Distributions
 
 
 
6.2 Distributions in the Event of Death
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Plan Participant's death, distribution of the portion of a Plan Participant's Account attributable to Deferred Cash Compensation shall be made in the form designated by the Participant in his or her Notification (or if no form is designated, in a lump sum distribution). Distribution of the portion of his or her Account attributable to Deferred Stock Units shall be made by the issuance of shares of common stock of the Company. All death distributions shall be made as soon as practicable following the date of the Plan Participant's death to a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries designated by the Plan Participant in his or her Notification, or, if no designation has been made, to the Plan Participant's estate. A Plan Participant may change his or her beneficiary or beneficiaries by a Notification to the Company. Any such Notification shall be effective when it is received by the Secretary of the Company.
 
6.3 Distributions in the Event of Unforeseeable Emergency or Disability
 
Notwithstanding a Plan Participant's distribution election under section 6.1, a Plan Participant may, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, request a lump sum distribution of the portion of his or her Account attributable to Deferred Cash Compensation in the event of Unforeseeable Emergency or in
 
the event that the Participant becomes Disabled. The amount of a distribution in the event of Unforeseeable Emergency shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy such emergency plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or by liquidation of the Plan Participant's assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship).
 
6.4 Acceleration of Benefits
 
There shall be no acceleration of the time or schedule of any payment under the Plan, except as provided in section 6.3.
 
6.5 Distributions Upon a Change in Control
 
To the extent permissible under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Plan Participant's Deferred Compensation Account balance shall become due and payable and shall be distributed as soon as practicable following the Change in Control. The portion of a Plan Participant's Account attributable to Deferred Cash Compensation shall be distributed in a single lump sum cash payment and the portion of a Plan Participant's Account attributable to Deferred Stock Units shall be distributed in such forms as may be provided in the Equity Plan under which they are granted. For purposes of this Section 6.2, a Change in Control shall have the meaning given to such term by regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury.
 
Article 7. Plan Amendment or Termination
 
7.1 Amendment and Termination
 
The Board of Directors shall have the right to amend the Plan from time to time or to terminate the privilege under the Plan of deferring Compensation to be earned, but any such amendment or termination shall not reduce any Account of a Participant or former Participant as of the date of the amendment. The Board of Directors may also elect to terminate the Plan itself, in which event, the Accounts of Participants shall be disposed of as determined by the Board of Directors, in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury thereunder.
 
Article 8. Miscellaneous
 
8.1 Non-Assignability
 
The right to receive payments hereunder shall not be assigned, transferred, pledged or encumbered.
 
8.2 Deferred Stock Units
 
Deferred Stock Units shall be subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of the Equity Plan under which they are granted.
 
 
, the Company has caused this Plan to be signed and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed by its duly authorized officers effective as of January 1, 2005, on this 22nd day of December, 2004.
In Witness Whereof
 
 


