FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20040519092559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5
Other Events
 
On May 18, 2004, the registrant announced its plans to invest approximately $180 million to strengthen the registrant's manufacturing base in North America and extend its leadership position in the U.S. appliance industry.
 
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Attached is a press release dated May 18, 2004 being furnished as part of this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
: Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT
 
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738 thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Media:
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com
 
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced that it plans to invest approximately $180 million to strengthen the company's manufacturing base in North America and extend its leadership position in the U.S. appliance industry. The 2004 investments are expected to result in a series of innovative new product introductions and improved cost competitiveness for the company's North American business.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., May 18, 2004
 
"These investments will support the continuing efforts of our brands and operations in North America to deliver a constant stream of innovation to customers in the U.S. domestic market and throughout the world, " said David L. Swift, executive vice president, North American Region. "In addition, the investments will help us drive improved productivity and efficiency across our North American manufacturing platform."
 
Approximately $100 million of the 2004 investment will fund initiatives at the company's manufacturing facilities in the United States. These initiatives will lead to the production of a number of new and innovative brand and brand products, including:
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These new investments, along with the company's $100 million investment announced in November of 2003, reflect the strategic role of Whirlpool's U.S. manufacturing base within the company's global manufacturing and distribution network. Products from the U.S. facilities are sold to customers domestically and in markets around the world.
 
Approximately $80 million of the 2004 investment will be used to begin work on the expansion of the company's washer production facility in Monterrey, Mexico, and the construction of a new refrigeration facility in Ramos Arizpe, Coahuilla. The projects are part of the company's ongoing effort to expand its innovation capability and optimize its global operating platform.
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 


