FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20040525131035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7
Financial Statements, ProForma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Attached is a press release dated May 25, 2004 being furnished as part of this report.
 
Item 9
Information to Be Included in the Report
 
On May 25, 2004, the registrant issued a press release regarding an analyst meeting being held today in New York City during which the registrant announced that it was reiterating its full-year earnings guidance of $6.20 to $6.35 per share, and discussed its free cash flow forecast, which will increase this year to about $400 million, or $100 million above its previous forecast. The registrant defines free cash flow as cash from operations and after proceeds from the sale of fixed assets, dividends and capital expenditures.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT:
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738 thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Media:
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com        
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation executives today will discuss the company's growth strategies and present its global lineup of innovative products and brands at meetings with financial analysts and media representatives in New York.
BENTON HARBOR, MICHIGAN (May 25, 2004)
 
At two sessions, to be attended separately by dozens of analysts and reporters, the company's executive management team will highlight the success of Whirlpool's global-expansion strategy that was initiated in the late 1980s by David R. Whitwam, the company's chairman and chief executive officer. It was this strategy that has made Whirlpool the world's largest manufacturer and marketer of home appliances today.
 
Whitwam announced earlier this month that he will be retiring on June 30. Whitwam will be succeeded by Jeff Fettig, Whirlpool's current president and chief operating officer. Fettig has been named chairman, president and chief executive officer, effective July 1.
 
During the analysts presentation, Whirlpool executives will reiterate the company's full-year earnings guidance of $6.20 to $6.35 per share, and discuss the company's free cash flow forecast, which will increase this year to about $400 million, or $100 million above its previous forecast. Whirlpool defines free cash flow as cash from operations and after proceeds from the sale of fixed assets, dividends and capital expenditures.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
The news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 


