FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20040421062135.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Attached is a press release dated April 21, 2004 being furnished as part of this report.
 
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 21, 2004, the registrant announced its first-quarter 2004 net earnings of $101 million, or $1.43 per diluted share, compared to $91 million, or $1.32 per diluted share, in the same period last year. The registrant continues to anticipate full-year earnings for 2004 in the range of $6.20 to $6.35 per share.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT:
 
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738 thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Media:
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com          
 
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced first-quarter 2004 net earnings of $101 million, or $1.43 per diluted share, compared to $91 million, or $1.32 per diluted share, in the same period last year.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., April 21, 2004
 
First-quarter net sales of $3 billion increased 10.7 percent from the same period last year. Excluding currency translations, net sales increased approximately 5 percent.
 
"The company's solid results were driven by the strong performance of our North American and European operations," said David R. Whitwam, Whirlpool Corporation's chairman and chief executive officer. "Record sales, unit shipments and significant profit improvement from these two regions underscore the strength and momentum of our global business. These results were tempered by rising raw material costs worldwide, as well as the negative effects of currency in Latin America."
 
First-Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global Innovation
 
During the quarter, Whirlpool continued to leverage the company's unique innovation process to accelerate the development and introduction of innovative products and services for customers worldwide. Here is a summary of first-quarter developments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First-Quarter Region Review
 
sales of $1.89 billion increased 5.4 percent from the prior-year period. U.S. industry demand was strong during the quarter. Within this environment, sales, unit shipments, operating profit and cash flow were first-quarter records for the operation. Operating profit increased 17.7 percent, driven in part by effective brand and product mix management, as well as productivity gains.
Whirlpool North America's
The improvement was also reflected in double-digit revenue increases in brand and brand products, as well as the company's home builder business.
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
 
U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7) increased 7.6 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year U.S. industry shipments to increase 4 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $680 million increased 20.5 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 5 percent. Continued consumer demand for Whirlpool innovation and the company's continued emphasis on product and brand mix management helped drive a 51-percent increase in operating profit. Growth of the company's built-in appliance business, expansion of the brand, as well as significant cost savings from productivity gains contributed to the profit improvement as well.
Whirlpool Europe's
Whirlpool
 
First-quarter industry unit shipments increased 3 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry shipments to increase approximately 3 percent.
 
sales of $382 million increased 24.7 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 11 percent. Operating profit declined 18 percent due entirely to the negative effects of currency on exports. Absent the effects of currency, operating profit would have increased by approximately 50 percent. Beginning in the second quarter, the company anticipates a return to more favorable currency comparisons on a year-over-year basis. The company also expects that the Brazilian economic environment will gradually improve as interest rates continue to decline.
Whirlpool Latin America's
 
First-quarter industry unit shipments in Brazil increased approximately 16 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year industry unit shipments to increase approximately 8-12 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $88 million declined 5.1 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales declined approximately 11 percent. During the quarter, the company adopted a new trade management strategy, which included new trade terms, and increased its operating reserves primarily for higher levels of bad debt. These actions resulted in an operating loss. The company expects to complete and begin realizing improved profit performance from the new trade strategy starting in the second quarter.
Whirlpool Asia's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company continues to expect full-year industry shipments to increase by 5-to-8 percent.
 
Outlook
 
"Our operations will continue the rapid rate of new innovation introductions to customers worldwide as we continue to fully leverage our global operating platform," said Whitwam. "We also expect to drive improved results through effective brand and product mix management and increasingly higher levels of productivity."
 
"For the remainder of 2004," Whitwam added, "U.S. industry demand should be moderately better than our previous forecast. Pressures from raw material costs and the Brazilian economy will continue, though we expect to see some improvement in both areas as the year progresses. Based on these factors and our current view of market conditions worldwide, we continue to anticipate full-year earnings for 2004 in the range of $6.20 to $6.35 per share."
Additional operating segment information is available in the "Investors" section of At 9:30 a.m. (EDT) Wednesday, April 21, 2004, the company will be hosting a conference call, which can be heard by visiting and clicking on the "Investors" button and then the "Conference Call Audio" menu item.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
*T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 


