FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20040721071517.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Attached is a press release dated July 21, 2004 being furnished as part of this report.
 
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 21, 2004, the registrant announced its second-quarter 2004 net earnings of $106 million, or $1.53 per diluted share, compared to $94 million, or $1.35 per diluted share, in the same period last year. The registrant continues to anticipate full-year earnings for 2004 in the range of $6.20 to $6.35 per share.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
: Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT
 
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738
Media:
thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com
 
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced second-quarter financial results, highlighted by record second-quarter revenue and a 13-percent increase in earnings per share.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., July 21, 2004
 
Second-quarter 2004 net earnings were $106 million, or $1.53 per diluted share, compared to $94 million, or $1.35 per diluted share, in the same period last year. Second-quarter net sales of $3.26 billion increased 9.2 percent from the same period last year. Excluding currency translations, net sales increased approximately 8 percent.
 
"Our second-quarter results reflect the continuing strong momentum in our North American and European businesses, and improving conditions in Latin America," said Jeff Fettig, Whirlpool's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Demand has been strong in all markets, but rising material costs, material availability and transportation constraints have made this a challenging operating environment. Our global operations effectively managed these issues during the quarter, which led to our strong performance."
 
For the first half of 2004, sales of $6.27 billion increased 9.9 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, year-to-date sales increased approximately 7 percent. Year-to-date earnings of $2.96 per diluted share improved 10.9 percent from the first half of 2003.
 
Second-Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second-Quarter Region Review
 
sales of $2.1 billion increased 6.9 percent from the prior-year period. Sales and unit shipments reached record levels for the region, and operating profit was a second-quarter record. The results reflected strong industry growth and consumer demand for the company's brands and new product introductions.
Whirlpool North America's
 
Operating profit, which included the negative impact of currency, higher logistics costs and higher costs for raw materials, increased 6.9 percent from the prior-year period. Effective brand and product mix management and continued strong levels of manufacturing productivity contributed to the profit improvement.
 
U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7) increased 9.3 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year U.S. industry shipments to increase 5-to-6 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $704 million increased 12.1 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 6 percent. Within a mixed economic environment where appliance demand improved moderately, Whirlpool Europe outperformed the industry with record sales and unit shipments, and enhanced the Whirlpool brand's market leading position.
Whirlpool Europe's
 
Operating profit increased 52 percent, driven in part by the growing demand for the company's innovative products, including new built-in kitchen appliances and side-by-side refrigerators. Record levels of productivity also contributed to the profit improvement. During the quarter, the company announced a region-wide price increase in response to rising raw material costs.
 
Second-quarter industry unit shipments increased 3 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry shipments to increase approximately 2-to-3 percent.
 
sales of $392 million increased 23 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 24 percent.
Whirlpool Latin America's
 
Economic conditions continued to improve during the quarter as interest rates remained stable and unemployment declined. Renewed consumer spending led to a significant increase in appliance demand compared to the prior-year period. The company's shipments outpaced regional industry growth during the quarter, and exports continued to expand compared to the prior-year period.
 
Operating profit improved 8.4 percent on gains from price increases and robust shipments of the company's major appliances, both domestic and exports. The improvement was partially offset by significant increases in raw material costs.
 
Second-quarter industry unit shipments in Brazil increased approximately 28 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry unit shipments to increase approximately 12-to-15 percent from last year's level.
 
sales of $110 million declined 6.4 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales declined approximately 12 percent in a challenging industry environment. Earnings were impacted by significant industry pricing pressures and increases in raw materials costs. During the quarter, Whirlpool Asia continued to ramp up its capabilities as a source of procurement, technology and exports for the company's other global operations.
Whirlpool Asia's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company continues to expect full-year industry unit shipments to increase by 5-to-7 percent.
 
Outlook
 
"We continue to expect to deliver a record year of revenues and full-year earnings in the range of $6.20 to $6.35 per share for 2004," said Fettig. "The expected performance is based on the strong demand for our global innovative products and brands, and our second-half outlook for key markets around the world. The guidance incorporates the external challenges of raw material costs, material supply availability and transportation constraints, as well as the planned investments in the company's global operating platform. Our operations are positioned to successfully manage these issues and deliver a record year of performance."
 
The table below reconciles cash provided by (used in) operating activities as prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to free cash flow. Management believes this comparison of free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the Company's ability to fund its activities. Free cash flow is cash from operations after capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of fixed assets and dividends.
 
 
Additional operating segment information is available in the "Investors" section of At 9:30 a.m. (EDT) Wednesday, July 21, 2004, the company will be hosting a conference call, which can be heard by visiting and clicking on the "Investors" button and then the "Conference Call Audio" menu item.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
*T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


