FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20040203062817.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 3, 2004, the registrant announced fourth-quarter and full year 2003 results. Fourth-quarter net earnings of $125 million, or $1.76 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $29 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the prior-year period.
 
For 2003, the company reported net earnings of $414 million, or $5.91 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $394 million, or $5.68 per diluted share, in 2002. The text of the press release is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
: Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738
Media:
thomas_e_kline@email.whirlpool.com
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@email.whirlpool.com
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced fourth-quarter 2003 results, highlighted by record sales and net earnings. Fourth-quarter net earnings of $125 million, or $1.76 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $29 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the prior-year period. The 2002 loss included charges totaling $2.06 per diluted share. (A table that lists the individual 2002 charges is included in this announcement.)
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., Feb. 3, 2004
 
Fourth-quarter net sales of $3.36 billion increased 14 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, net sales increased approximately 7 percent. For the full year, net sales of $12.18 billion increased 10.5 percent from 2002. Excluding currency translations, full-year net sales increased 7 percent.
 
"Our consolidated global businesses delivered solid earnings," said David R. Whitwam, Whirlpool's chairman and chief executive officer. "Substantial improvements in sales and productivity within our North American and European operations were reflected in the fourth-quarter and full-year results."
 
For 2003, the company reported net earnings of $414 million, or $5.91 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $394 million, or $5.68 per diluted share, in 2002. The 2002 loss included charges totaling $11.75 per diluted share. (A table that lists the individual 2002 charges is included in this announcement.)
 
Full-year free cash flow was $302 million after shareholder dividends and a previously announced voluntary, after-tax contribution of $97 million to the company's U.S. pension plan.
 
FOURTH-QUARTER GLOBAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH-QUARTER REGION REVIEW
 
sales of $2.1 billion increased 7.6 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 7 percent and exceeded unit volume growth. Operating profit improved 9 percent, despite the negative effects of currency and a significant increase in U.S. pension costs compared to the prior-year period. Record revenues, positive brand mix management, and record levels of productivity contributed to the improvement.
WHIRLPOOL NORTH AMERICA's
 
KitchenAid brand introduced the KitchenAid Pro Line Series of premium portable appliances, which includes an espresso machine, coffee mill, waffle baker, coffee maker, frozen dessert maker and toaster. The portables visually complement the KitchenAid Pro Line Series of major kitchen appliances introduced by the company in the third quarter.
 
U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7*) increased 8.1 percent from the prior-year period, driven by the continued strength of consumer spending. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects U.S. appliance industry unit shipments in 2004 to increase 2 percent.
 
sales of $794 million increased 27.4 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 9 percent. Reflecting improving GDP growth and consumer demand throughout most of the region, the company's unit volume increased 9 percent and sales improved across all brands, especially the Whirlpool brand. Operating profit increased significantly compared to the prior year period, driven in part by demand for innovative premium products, including the Whirlpool Dreamspace clothes washer and the Whirlpool Conquest side-by-side refrigerator. The operation delivered a significant improvement in productivity, which also contributed to the operating profit improvement.
WHIRLPOOL EUROPE's
 
Whirlpool brand increased its leading market share position for the quarter. The Whirlpool and Bauknecht brands introduced new lines of kitchen appliances for the built-in appliance market.
 
Fourth-quarter appliance industry unit shipments increased approximately 4-to-5 percent from the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects industry shipments in 2004 to increase approximately 3 percent.
 
sales of $403 million increased 27.8 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales increased approximately 9 percent. Difficult macroeconomic conditions in Brazil continued to negatively affect consumer demand and market pricing. Operating profit declined 23 percent from the prior-year period, due primarily to increases in material costs and the effects of currency. Excluding currency translations, operating profit increased approximately 8 percent. The company expects that economic and market conditions in Brazil will continue to stabilize and moderately improve in 2004.
WHIRLPOOL LATIN AMERICA's
During the quarter, Brastemp and Consul brand refrigerators received the Brazilian government's "Procel" (energy saving) award. The award recognizes the company's continued leadership in developing energy-efficient home appliances. In a listing of Brazil's top exporters published by the Brazilian Ministry of Development, Industry and Trade, the company's combined operations ranked No. 24 in overall export business.
 
Fourth-quarter appliance industry unit shipments were flat compared to the prior-year period. Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry unit shipments in 2004 to increase approximately 5-to-10 percent.
 
sales of $115 million increased 6.5 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding currency translations, sales decreased 1 percent. Operating profit declined due to market price pressures across the region and increases in inventory and other operating reserves to adjust for this challenging operating environment.
WHIRLPOOL ASIA's
 
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year industry unit shipments in 2004 to increase approximately 5-to-10 percent.
 
OUTLOOK
 
"Entering 2004, we see positive economic trends and the continuing momentum of our brands in Whirlpool's key markets worldwide," said Whitwam. "We expect full-year earnings for 2004 to be in the range of $6.20 to $6.35 per share. This improvement is based on our forecast of gradually improving global economic conditions, increased consumer demand for Whirlpool's innovative products and services, and benefits from our ongoing operational focus on business productivity."
 
The table below reconciles fourth-quarter and full-year 2002 net earnings to net earnings before the charges identified in the table. Management believes this comparison of non-GAAP measures of earnings to GAAP earnings provides shareholders with a better understanding of the ongoing performance of the company from an earnings perspective.
 
2002 charges
 
Additional operating segment information is available in the "Investors" section of At 9:30 a.m. (ET) Tuesday, Feb. 3, 2004, the company will be hosting a conference call, which can be heard by visiting and clicking on the "Investors" button and then the "Conference Call Audio" menu item.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
*T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 


