FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20040521092313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5
Other Events
 
On May 20, 2004, the registrant announced that the Circuit Court of Berrien County, Michigan, has issued a temporary restraining order that requires steel supplier ISPAT Inland Inc. to continue providing steel to Whirlpool under the terms of the current supply agreement between the two companies.
 
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Attached is a press release dated May 20, 2004 being furnished as part of this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
: Whirlpool Corporation
CONTACT
 
Tom Kline, 269/923-3738 thomas_e_kline@whirlpool.com
Media:
Thomas Filstrup, 269/923-3189
Financial:
thomas_c_filstrup@whirlpool.com
 
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today announced that the Circuit Court of Berrien County, Mich., has issued a temporary restraining order that requires steel supplier ISPAT Inland Inc. to continue providing steel to Whirlpool under the terms of the current supply agreement between the two companies. A court hearing is scheduled for June 2 to address Whirlpool's request for further injunctive relief.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., May 20, 2004
 
Whirlpool filed the motion today for injunctive relief to prevent ISPAT from unilaterally imposing surcharges or terminating steel shipments. By terms of the agreement, ISPAT Inland is obligated to supply Whirlpool's requirements for specific types of steel used in the manufacture of clothes washers, dryers and dishwashers in the United States.
 
Based on the court order, the company remains confident in its previously announced full-year earnings guidance of $6.20 to $6.35 per share. This view is based on continuing demand growth for Whirlpool's innovative products and expected improvements in the company's productivity performance in 2004.
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $12 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets , , , , and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries. Additional information about the company can be found on the Internet at .
Whirlpool
KitchenAid
Brastemp
Bauknecht
Consul
www.whirlpoolcorp.com
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the expected appliance industry results for 2004 noted in this news release, there are certain factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made. These factors are listed in the company's most recently filed Form 10-Q and/or Form 10-K.
 


