FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20051011091022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
On October 7, 2005, Whirlpool Corporation and Maytag Corporation issued a joint press release announcing that the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice has issued a second request for additional information and documentary material regarding their proposed merger.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Copy of press release dated October 7, 2005.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
BENTON HARBOR, Mich. and NEWTON, Iowa  October 7, 2005  Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) and Maytag Corporation (NYSE:MYG) today announced that the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice has issued a request for additional information and documentary material regarding their proposed merger.  Such a "second" request is typical in transactions of this nature.
 
Whirlpool and Maytag are working closely with the Department of Justice and plan to cooperate fully with its investigation and to respond promptly to its request.  Both parties continue to expect the transaction to close as early as the first quarter of 2006, following approval from Maytag shareholders and regulatory clearance.
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
 
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $13 billion, 68,000 employees, and nearly 50 manufacturing and technology research centers around the globe. The company markets Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Brastemp, Bauknecht, Consul and other major brand names to consumers in more than 170 countries.  Additional information about the company can be found at www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
 
About Maytag Corporation
 
Maytag Corporation is a $4.7 billion home and commercial appliance company focused in North America and in targeted international markets.  The corporation's primary brands are Maytag, Hoover, Jenn-Air, Amana, Dixie-Narco and Jade.
:
Whirlpool Additional information
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update such information. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, and material costs for the full year 2005, as well as the expected consequences of enacted price increases. Although Whirlpool believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that those expectations will prove to have been correct. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) the cost of materials and components, especially steel and the impact of rising oil prices; (2) the financial impact of Whirlpool's announced price changes will be dependent upon such factors as market conditions, the strength of consumer demand for Whirlpool's products, and other factors outside of Whirlpool's control such as the general economic conditions prevailing at the time the new pricing goes into effect; (3) rising worldwide transportation costs due to historically high and volatile oil prices, capacity constraints, and other factors; (4) the ability to gain or maintain market share in an intensely competitive global market; (5) the strength of new and established Asian and European competitors in the United States and abroad; (6) the success of Whirlpool's global business strategy; (7) Whirlpool's global operating platform initiatives; (8) the success of the Latin American businesses operating in challenging and volatile environments; (9) continuation of Whirlpool's strong relationship with Sears Holdings Corporation in North America, which accounted for approximately 17% of consolidated net sales of $13 billion in 2004; (10) currency exchange rate fluctuations; (11) social, economic and political volatility in developing markets; (12) continuing uncertainty in the North American, Latin American, Asian and European economies; (13) the effectiveness of the series of restructuring actions Whirlpool has announced and/or completed through 2004; (14) U.S. interest rates; (15) changes to the obligations as presented in the contractual obligations table; (16) changes in the funded position of the U.S. pension plans; (17) continued strength of the U.S. builder industry; (18) the threat of terrorist activities or the impact of war; (19) Whirlpool's estimate of its annual effective tax rate of approximately 31.7%; (20) the outcome of Whirlpool's current investigation of a supplier-related quality and potential product safety problem that may affect up to 3.5 million appliances manufactured between 2000 and 2002; and (21) the ability of Whirlpool and Maytag to satisfy the conditions to consummation of the merger agreement between them, including Maytag shareholder approval and regulatory clearances, the timing of such satisfaction and in the event the merger is completed, Whirlpool's ability to realize expected benefits and the timing of such realization.
 
Maytag Additional Information:
 
This document includes statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts.  Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements speak only as of this date and include statements regarding expectations as to the closing of the transaction with Whirlpool.  These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Maytag.  There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this document.  For example, with respect to the transaction with Whirlpool (1) Maytag may be unable to obtain shareholder approval required for the transaction; (2) conditions to the closing of the transaction may not be satisfied or the merger agreement may be terminated prior to closing; (3) Maytag may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to close the transaction, or required regulatory approvals may delay the transaction or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on Maytag or cause the parties to abandon the transaction; (4) Maytag may be unable to achieve cost-cutting goals or it may take longer than expected to achieve those goals; (5) the transaction may involve unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities; (6) the credit ratings of Maytag or its subsidiaries may be different from what the parties expect; (7) the businesses of Maytag may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the transaction; (8) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect Maytag; and (9) Maytag may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors.  Additional factors that may affect the future results of Maytag are set forth in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), which are available at http://www.maytagcorp.com.  Maytag undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Additional Information Relating to the Proposed Merger and Where to Find It
 
Whirlpool and Maytag have filed a preliminary prospectus/proxy statement with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction.  Investors are urged to read the preliminary prospectus/proxy statement, which contains important information.  The preliminaryprospectus/proxy statement is, and other documents filed by Whirlpool and Maytag with the SEC are, available free of charge at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) or from Whirlpool by directing a request to Whirlpool Corporation, 2000 North M-63, Mail Drop 2800, Benton Harbor, MI 49022-2692, Attention: Larry Venturelli, Vice President, Investor Relations.  Neither this communication nor the preliminary prospectus/proxy statement constitutes an offer to issue Whirlpool common stock in any jurisdiction outside the United States where such offer or issuance would be prohibited  such an offer or issuance will only be made in accordance with the applicable laws of such jurisdiction.
 
Whirlpool, Maytag and their respective directors, executive officers, and other employees may be deemed to be participating in the solicitation of proxies from Maytag stockholders in connection with the approval of the proposed transaction.  Information about Whirlpool's directors and executive officers is available in Whirlpool's proxy statement, dated March 18, 2005, for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders.  Information about Maytag's directors and executive officers is available in Maytag's proxy statement, dated April 4, 2005, for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders.  Additional information about the interests of potential participants is included in the preliminary prospectus/proxy statement Whirlpool and Maytag filed with the SEC.
 


