FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20060518160501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
May 16, 2006
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On May 16, 2006, the registrant issued two press releases. Copies of the press releases are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2.
On May 17, 2006, the registrant issued a press release. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Copy of press release dated May 16, 2006
99.1
                          
Copy of press release dated May 16, 2006
99.2
                          
Copy of press release dated May 17, 2006
99.3
                          
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
Whirlpool Press Office (269) 923-7405
CONTACT:
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION TO ADD UP TO 400 JOBS IN SOUTHWEST MICHIGAN
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today confirmed the creation of up to 400 new jobs in Southwest Michigan to support its global headquarters and North American operations.
Benton Harbor, Mich.  May 16, 2006 
The announcement follows the company's recent decision to consolidate Maytag administrative offices in the U.S.  from Newton, Iowa and Schaumburg, Ill., to Benton Harbor and other Whirlpool locations. The positions will encompass a variety of functions and are expected to be filled over the next 24 months.
"We are expanding our Benton Harbor headquarters to support the business transition during the Maytag integration, as well as the continued growth of our North American and global business," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and CEO, Whirlpool Corporation. "These 400 new jobs will build upon our history of contributing to the community, economy and quality of life in Southwest Michigan."
Some positions will be filled by relocating employees from former Maytag locations and others will be filled through external hiring. Information on applying for positions with Whirlpool Corporation is available at www.whirlpoolcareers.com.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of more than $19 billion, more than 80,000 employees, and more than 60 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Bauknecht and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http:  www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
: This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document include, but are not limited to, expectations regarding the merger with Maytag Corporation. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global, including Asian and European, manufacturers and the strength of trade customers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its strong relationship with Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 16% of Whirlpool's 2005 consolidated net sales of $14 billion) and other significant trade customers, and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) Whirlpool's ability to integrate the recently acquired Maytag Corporation on a timely basis and realize the full anticipated benefits of the merger within the current estimate of costs; (4) demand for Whirlpool's products, including the strength of the U.S. building industry and the level of
Whirlpool Additional Information
interest rates; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, including productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (6) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic resins, copper and zinc) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (7) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (8) changes in market conditions, health care cost trends and pending regulation that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post-retirement benefit plans; (9) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulation, including new regulations in Europe regarding appliance disposal; (10) potential exposure to product liability claims, including claims that may arise through Whirlpool's regular investigations of potential quality and product safety issues as part of its ongoing effort to provide quality products to consumers; (11) the impact of labor relations; (12) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (13) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency and its effective tax rate; (14) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic markets, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters; and (15) risks associated with operations outside the U.S. Additional information concerning these factors can be found in Whirlpool's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the annual report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

Exhibit 99.2
Whirlpool Press Office (269) 923-7405
CONTACT:
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION EXPANDS OHIO MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) today confirmed the expansion of its Ohio-based laundry manufacturing operations to support innovation and capacity requirements for the newly acquired Maytag brands.
Benton Harbor, Mich.  May 16, 2006 
The expansion is expected to include the creation of more than 1,100 jobs in Ohio, split evenly between the existing facilities in Clyde and Marion. Whirlpool will begin additional equipment installation and hiring at the Clyde and Marion facilities this summer, with production scheduled to begin before the end of the year.
"The global home appliance industry is highly competitive and requires Whirlpool to be the best cost and best quality producer in each region of the world," said David L. Swift, president of Whirlpool North America. "Our facilities in Clyde and Marion, Ohio are two of the largest, most efficient factories in the world. The investments will help us drive improved productivity and efficiency across our North American laundry manufacturing platform."
Swift continued: "The improved business climate, including last year's tax reform, has made Ohio a more attractive place to do business. These investments will support the continuing efforts of our brands, including the newly acquired Maytag family of brands, to deliver a constant stream of innovation to consumers in the U.S. domestic market and throughout the world."
The investment follows the recently communicated plans to consolidate laundry washer and dryer production from former Maytag manufacturing sites in Newton, Iowa; Herrin, Illinois; and Searcy, Arkansas with Whirlpool laundry factories in Clyde and Marion.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of more than $19 billion, more than 80,000 employees, and more than 60 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Bauknecht and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document include, but are not limited to, expectations regarding the merger with Maytag Corporation. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global, including Asian and European, manufacturers and the strength of trade customers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its strong relationship with Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 16% of Whirlpool's 2005 consolidated net sales of $14 billion) and other significant trade customers, and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or
increase market share; (3) Whirlpool's ability to integrate the recently acquired Maytag Corporation on a timely basis and realize the full anticipated benefits of the merger within the current estimate of costs; (4) demand for Whirlpool's products, including the strength of the U.S. building industry and the level of interest rates; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, including productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (6) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic resins, copper and zinc) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (7) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (8) changes in market conditions, health care cost trends and pending regulation that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post-retirement benefit plans; (9) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulation, including new regulations in Europe regarding appliance disposal; (10) potential exposure to product liability claims, including claims that may arise through Whirlpool's regular investigations of potential quality and product safety issues as part of its ongoing effort to provide quality products to consumers; (11) the impact of labor relations; (12) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (13) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency and its effective tax rate; (14) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic markets, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters; and (15) risks associated with operations outside the U.S. Additional information concerning these factors can be found in Whirlpool's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the annual report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

Exhibit 99.3
Whirlpool Press Office (269) 923-7405
CONTACT:
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION CONFERENCE CALL ANNOUNCEMENT
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE:WHR) announced today it will host a conference call with members of the financial community at 12:30 p.m. (EDT) on Tuesday, May 23, 2006, to provide additional information regarding its acquisition of Maytag Corporation and to update its financial guidance.
Benton Harbor, Mich.  May 17, 2006 
Individuals who would like to participate should call (877) 704-5391 and use confirmation code 3045726. International participants should call (913) 312-1301 and use confirmation code 3045726.
The conference call also will be webcast live on the company's Internet site at www.whirlpoolcorp.com under the "Investors" section. To listen to the live webcast, participants should visit the site at least 15 minutes before the phone conference begins to register, and, if necessary, download and install the appropriate audio computer software. An archived recording of the conference call will be available on the company's Internet site through Friday, June 30.
Additionally, Whirlpool's conference call will be distributed live over CCBN's Investor Distribution Network to both institutional and individual investors. Individual investors can listen to the call through CCBN's individual investor center at http://www.fulldisclosure.com or by visiting any of the investor sites in CCBN's Individual Investor Network. Institutional investors can access the call via CCBN's password-protected event management site, Street Events at http://www.streetevents.com.
For those who cannot participate in the scheduled call, a recording of the conference call will be available by phone through Monday, May 29. Individuals can access the recording by dialing (719) 457-0820 and using the following confirmation code: 3045726.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of more than $19 billion, more than 80,000 employees, and more than 60 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Bauknecht and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool Additional Information:
This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document include, but are not limited to, expectations regarding the merger with Maytag Corporation. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global, including Asian
and European, manufacturers and the strength of trade customers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its strong relationship with Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 16% of Whirlpool's 2005 consolidated net sales of $14 billion) and other significant trade customers, and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) Whirlpool's ability to integrate the recently acquired Maytag Corporation on a timely basis and realize the full anticipated benefits of the merger within the current estimate of costs; (4) demand for Whirlpool's products, including the strength of the U.S. building industry and the level of interest rates; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, including productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (6) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic resins, copper and zinc) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (7) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (8) changes in market conditions, health care cost trends and pending regulation that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post-retirement benefit plans; (9) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulation, including new regulations in Europe regarding appliance disposal; (10) potential exposure to product liability claims, including claims that may arise through Whirlpool's regular investigations of potential quality and product safety issues as part of its ongoing effort to provide quality products to consumers; (11) the impact of labor relations; (12) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (13) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency and its effective tax rate; (14) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic markets, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters; and (15) risks associated with operations outside the U.S. Additional information concerning these factors can be found in Whirlpool's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the annual report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.


