FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20060607171322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K/A is being filed to amend the Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Initial 8-K") filed April 6, 2006, by Whirlpool Corporation to include the pro forma financial information referred to in Item 9.01(b) below relating to the acquisition of Maytag Corporation on March 31, 2006 and to update the consent of the independent registered public accounting firm. Pursuant to the instructions to Item 9.01 of Form 8-K, Whirlpool Corporation hereby amends Item 9.01 of the Initial 8-K to include previously omitted information and to update the consent of the independent registered public accounting firm.
.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
(a)
                                 
(1)           The audited consolidated balance sheets of Maytag Corporation as of December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005 and the consolidated statements of operations, consolidated statements of shareholders' equity and consolidated statements of cash flows of Maytag Corporation for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 2005, and the schedule and independent registered public accounting firm's report related thereto (incorporated by reference from Maytag Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).
(b)           Pro forma financial information.
On March 31, 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of Maytag Corporation. Attached as exhibits are the following pro forma financial statements:
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005
(1)
                                 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005
(2)
                                 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations combines the historical consolidated statement of operations of Whirlpool and the historical consolidated statement of operations of Maytag, giving effect to the merger as if it had been completed on January 1, 2005. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet combines the historical consolidated balance sheet of Whirlpool and the historical consolidated balance sheet of Maytag, giving effect to the merger as if it had been completed on December 31, 2005.
(d)           Exhibits.
99.1
                          
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005
99.2
                          
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005
99.3
                          
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
On March 31, 2006, the Company completed its acquisition of Maytag Corporation. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations combines the historical consolidated statement of operations of Whirlpool and the historical consolidated statement of operations of Maytag, giving effect to the merger as if it had been completed on January 1, 2005. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet combines the historical consolidated balance sheet of Whirlpool and the historical consolidated balance sheet of Maytag, giving effect to the merger as if it had been completed on December 31, 2005. This information should be read in conjunction with the:
accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements;
                    
separate historical financial statements of Whirlpool as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 included in Whirlpool's Financial Supplement to the 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and to the 2006 Proxy Statement for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005;
                    
separate historical financial statements of Maytag as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 included in Maytag's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
                    
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is provided for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the merger been completed at the date indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared using the purchase method of accounting with Whirlpool treated as the acquiror. Accordingly, the historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the impact of the consideration paid in connection with the merger. In the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet, Whirlpool's cost to acquire Maytag has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon management's preliminary estimate of their respective fair values as of the date of acquisition. Any differences between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired has been recorded as goodwill. The amounts allocated to acquired assets and liabilities in the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet are based on management's preliminary internal valuation estimates and consultations with outside valuation experts. Definitive allocations are being performed and will be finalized based upon certain valuations and other studies, including but not limited to studies regarding inventory, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, pension liabilities, and postemployment benefit liabilities. These valuations and other studies will be completed by Whirlpool and in some cases with the services of outside valuation specialists. Accordingly, the purchase allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and are subject to revision based on a final determination of fair value.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations also includes certain purchase accounting adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results, such as increased depreciation and amortization expense on acquired tangible and intangible assets.
5
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations does not include the impact of any potential cost savings or one-time costs that may result from the merger. Whirlpool currently expects the merger with Maytag to generate pre-tax annualized cost savings in excess of $400 million. Cost efficiencies are expected from all areas of the value chain, including product manufacturing, infrastructure and support areas, global procurement and logistics. The company expects to gain the majority of efficiencies during 2007 and anticipates savings to be fully realized in 2008. The company will incur approximately $450 million in pre-tax, one-time cash costs to realize the annualized savings estimates. Approximately $150 million of these costs are expected to affect earnings over the next three years with the remainder capitalized under purchase accounting. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect the previously announced intention to dispose of the Hoover floor-care, Dixie Narco vending systems, Amana commercial microwave and Jade commercial products appliance businesses.
6
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 (in millions, except per share data)
 
***
Please read in conjunction with accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statement of Operations.
     
7
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical presentation of Whirlpool and Maytag to conform to the presentation used in the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations including, but not limited to, freight and warehousing costs of $800 million originally included by Whirlpool in Selling, General and Administrative expense and reclassified to Cost of Products Sold for the year ended December 31, 2005.
(a)
            
Represents the elimination of inter-company sales between Whirlpool and Maytag of $78 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
(b)
            
Represents an increase in depreciation expense resulting from the fair value adjustments to Maytag's property, plant and equipment that will continue to be held and used (see notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet).
(c)
            
Represents a net reduction in pension and other post-retirement benefit costs attributable to the impact of the fair value adjustment to Maytag's pension and other post-retirement medical benefits obligations (see notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet).
(d)
            
Represents an increase in intangible asset amortization expense resulting from the purchase price allocation related to Maytag's intangible assets (see notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet).
(e)
            
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements reflect a preliminary allocation to tangible assets, liabilities, goodwill and other intangible assets. The final purchase price allocation may result in a different allocation for tangible and intangible assets than that presented in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
Represents the elimination of $20 million of non-recurring acquisition costs related to the transaction included in Maytag's 2005 Statement of Operations.
(f)
              
Represents interest expense resulting from the debt financing portion of the merger consideration (see notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet).
(g)
           
Income tax effects as a result of pro forma adjustments are estimated at the statutory rate for the periods presented.
(h)
           
The pro forma combined per share amounts and weighted average shares reflect the combined weighted average number of Whirlpool common shares adjusted to reflect the exchange ratio of 0.1196 shares of Whirlpool common stock for each share of Maytag common stock, including the impact of net shares issued to satisfy Maytag stock options using the treasury stock method. The diluted number of shares takes into account the Maytag stock options that were assumed by Whirlpool.
(i)
              
8

Exhibit 99.2
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2005 (in millions)
 
***
Please read in conjunction with accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet.
     
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED BALANCE SHEET
Represents the elimination of inter-company balances between Whirlpool and Maytag of $25 million.
(a)
            
The aggregate purchase price, based on the number of shares of Maytag common stock outstanding at December 31, 2005, for Maytag would have been approximately $1.9 billion, including approximately $844 million of cash and approximately 9.6 million shares of Company common stock, the adjustment of outstanding Maytag options to become exercisable, in aggregate, for an additional 1.9 million shares of Company common stock and the settlement of Maytag restricted stock and performance units for cash. The combined value of the above share-based consideration would have been approximately $920 million. The value of the approximately 9.6 million shares of Company common stock was determined using the average market price of the Company's common shares for the two days prior to, through the two days after, March 29, 2006, the date the reference period for the exchange ratio was established. In addition, the Company assumed Maytag's existing debt of approximately $971 million at December 31, 2005. The Company has incurred approximately $102 million in acquisition-related expenses that are included in the purchase price above, of which $77 million were included in other assets by Whirlpool at December 31, 2005. The Company borrowed amounts required to fund the cash portion of the purchase price through issuances in the U.S. commercial paper market. For purposes of these pro forma statements, the Company has assumed a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.3%.
(b)
            
Whirlpool has completed a preliminary assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities of Maytag and the related business integration plans. The table below represents a preliminary allocation of the total consideration to Maytag's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on Whirlpool management's preliminary estimate of their respective fair value as of the date of the business combination.
 
Upon completion of the fair value assessment, the ultimate purchase price allocation may differ materially from the preliminary assessment outlined above. Any changes to the initial estimates of the fair value of the assets and liabilities will be allocated to residual goodwill.
The pro forma information presented excludes an anticipated non-recurring charge of approximately $30 million related to the normal turnover of inventory that was written up to fair value as part of the purchase price allocation.
For purposes of the preliminary allocation, Whirlpool has estimated a fair value adjustment for Maytag's property, plant and equipment based on a review of Maytag's historical costs and management's intended future use. The fair value adjustment will be depreciated over estimated useful lives of four to fifteen years depending on the asset.
The Company has preliminarily estimated the fair value of Maytag's identifiable intangible assets as $1.758 million. The preliminary allocation of identifiable intangible assets is as follows:
 
The majority of the intangible valuation relates to brand intangibles. The Company's preliminary assessment as to brand intangibles having an indefinite life was based on a number of factors, including competitive environment, market share, brand history and product life cycles. The customer relationship intangibles have an average remaining useful life of 17 years based on the very low historical and projected customer attrition rates among major retailers.
On May 10, 2006, the Company announced its intention to close the Newton, Iowa; Herrin, Illinois, and Searcy, Arkansas laundry manufacturing plants as well as the former headquarters and other administrative offices of Maytag. The Company established reserves for certain exit costs relating to these facilities. Costs associated with these actions will not impact current earnings and have been recognized as a component of purchase accounting, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill. A $163 million reserve for certain actions, including closure of the Maytag facilities mentioned above, has been recognized as a purchase accounting liability. This reserve includes $132 million in severance costs primarily related to personnel located in the former headquarter location and other administrative offices. Excluded from the reserve are severance costs for affected employees within the manufacturing plants as the related severance benefits have not been communicated.
Whirlpool has estimated the fair value of Maytag's pension and post-retirement obligation based on discount and asset return rates that are consistent with Whirlpool's existing plans. An actuarial valuation is being performed. The recognition of the fair value of Maytag's pension and post-retirement obligation eliminates the unrecognized actuarial loss and related amortization expense.
Deferred income tax impacts as a result of purchase accounting adjustments are estimated at the statutory income tax rate for the periods presented.

Exhibit 99.3
We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and in Registration Statements No. 33-34490, 33-34037, 33-21360, 33-05904, 33-40249, 333-02827, 333-02825, 333-66211, 333-77167, 333-32886, 333-42322, 333-72698, 333-73726, 333-90602, 333-125260, 333-128686 and 333-131627 of Whirlpool Corporation, Registration Statements No. 33-26680 and 33-53196 of Whirlpool Corporation pertaining to the Whirlpool Savings Plan, and Registration Statement No. 333-66163 of Whirlpool Corporation pertaining to the Whirlpool 401(k) Plan, of Whirlpool Corporation of our report, dated February 8, 2006, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Maytag Corporation, as of December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005 and for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2005, included in Maytag Corporation's Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
June 6, 2006 Chicago, Illinois
 


