FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20060223135115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Executive Compensation
On February 20, 2006, the Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Whirlpool Corporation completed its annual performance and compensation review of Whirlpool's executive officers and approved the following actions for the executive officers who will be included as the Named Executive Officers in Whirlpool's Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Whirlpool expects to file its Proxy Statement on or about March 15, 2006. The Proxy Statement will include additional information with respect to compensation arrangements for executive officers and directors of Whirlpool.
1. After a review of individual and company-wide performance and competitive market data, conducted with the assistance of Hewitt Associates LLC, the Committee approved salary increases for two of Whirlpool's five named executive officers which result in the following annual salaries for 2006: Jeff M. Fettig - $1,100,000 and Roy W. Templin - $550,000. The changes to annual base salaries are effective as of March 1, 2006.
2. The Committee reviewed and approved grants for 2006 of performance-based phantom restricted stock units ("RSU's") and performance units to be paid in cash to Messrs. Fettig, Swift, Todman, Periquito, and Templin pursuant to the Strategic Excellence Program established under Whirlpool's Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, which has been previously approved by shareholders. The Committee approved return on equity (without considering the financial effects of the pending acquisition of Maytag Corp.) as the performance measure to be used over the measurement period of one year for Messrs. Fettig, Swift, Todman, and Templin, as these individuals are subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Committee approved performance measures for Mr. Periquito based on the Company's Transformational Scorecard ("TSC"), which is a set of Company performance goals for economic value added (EVA), innovation, and customer loyalty (without considering the effects of the Maytag transaction). If the respective performance measures are achieved, Mr. Fettig will receive a maximum award of 58,300 RSU's; Mr. Swift will receive a maximum award of 14,500 RSU's; Mr. Todman will receive a maximum award of 13,400 RSU's; Mr. Templin will receive a maximum award of 6,500 RSU's and performance units equal in value to $550,000; and Mr. Periquito will receive a maximum award of 7,234 RSU's and performance units equal in value to $645,000. Each of these awards is subject to being adjusted downward (or eliminated) by the Committee to align the final award received by each participant with the Committee's overall assessment of Company performance measured against goals established by the Committee under the TSC. Final awards will be determined by the Committee in February 2007 and paid out to participants in February 2009. At the time of payment, each participant will receive one share of the Company's common stock for each RSU awarded. The form of the Strategic Excellence Program Grant Document is filed with, and a description of such program is contained in, Whirlpool's Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Whirlpool with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2005, as amended on February 10, 2005, and is incorporated by reference herein.
Director Compensation
After evaluating the competitive market data on non-employee director compensation with the assistance of Hewitt Associates LLC, the Committee recommended, and the Board of Directors approved for 2006 (1) an increase in the annual retainer for non-employee directors from $60,000 to $75,000, (2) an increase in the additional amount paid to a committee chair from $5,000 to $10,000 ($10,000 to $20,000 for the Chair of the Audit Committee), and (3) the initiation of a $20,000 annual retainer for the Presiding Director (currently Allan D. Gilmour).
Indemnification Agreements
On February 20, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized and directed Whirlpool to enter into Indemnity Agreements with each current and future non-employee member of its Board of Directors and certain current and future employees of Whirlpool, including Messrs. Fettig, Swift, Todman, Periquito, and Templin.
The Indemnity Agreements provide for indemnification by Whirlpool of each person subject to an Indemnity Agreement (an "Indemnified Party") to the fullest extent permitted by law against expenses and damages if the Indemnified Party is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or participant in a legal proceeding by reason of his or her status as a director or officer of Whirlpool or by reason of the fact that he or she is or was serving at the request of Whirlpool as a director, officer, trustee, general partner, managing member, fiduciary, employee or agent. The Indemnity Agreements provide that Whirlpool will advance the expenses of the Indemnified Party incurred in any such proceedings prior to final disposition of the claim. In determining an Indemnified Party's entitlement to indemnification, the Indemnified Party will be presumed entitled to indemnification, and Whirlpool will have the burden of proving otherwise.
The Indemnity Agreements also provide that if indemnification under the agreement is unavailable in whole or in part to an Indemnified Party, Whirlpool, in lieu of indemnifying and holding harmless the Indemnified Party, will pay the entire amount incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event. The Indemnity Agreements also provide that to the extent Whirlpool maintains liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, or agents or fiduciaries of Whirlpool, the Indemnified Party shall be covered by such policy with no less coverage than what any other individual receives under Whirlpool's policy.
The above summary of the Indemnity Agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the detailed provisions of the form of Indemnity Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1     Whirlpool Corporation Form of Indemnity Agreement
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Indemnification Agreement (this ) is made as of this day of , 2006, by and between Whirlpool Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ), and , an individual ().
"Agreement"
        
                
"Company"
                
"Indemnitee"
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the "Certificate") provides for the indemnification of the Company's officers and directors to the maximum extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (the ); and
WHEREAS,
"DGCL"
the Certificate and the DGCL permit contracts between the Company and the officers and directors of the Company with respect to indemnification of such officers and directors; and
WHEREAS,
in accordance with the Certificate and the DGCL, the Company may purchase and maintain a policy or policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance covering certain liabilities that may be incurred by its officers or directors in the performance of their obligations to the Company; and
WHEREAS,
the Company recognizes that corporate litigation against, and the difficulty of obtaining liability insurance for, the Company's directors and officers impede the Company's ability to attract and retain the most capable and qualified persons available for such positions; and
WHEREAS,
in order to induce Indemnitee to serve or continue to serve as an officer and/or director of the Company, or its subsidiaries, the Company desires that the Indemnitee shall be indemnified and advanced expenses as set forth herein;
WHEREAS,
, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
1.. Indemnitee will serve or continue to serve as an officer or director of the Company for so long as Indemnitee is duly elected or appointed or until Indemnitee tenders his resignation.
SERVICES TO THE COMPANY
2. . As used in this Agreement:
DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
representing fifteen percent (15%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, unless (1) the change in the relative Beneficial Ownership of the Company's securities by any Person results solely from a reduction in the aggregate number of outstanding shares of securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, or (2) such acquisition was approved in advance by the Continuing Directors (as defined below) and such acquisition would not constitute a Change in Control under part (iii) of this definition;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. . The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3 if Indemnitee was, is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant (as a witness or otherwise) in any Proceeding, other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 3, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses, judgments, liabilities, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, in the case of a criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
INDEMNITY IN THIRD-PARTY PROCEEDINGS
4. . The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4 if Indemnitee was, is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant (as a witness or otherwise) in any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 4, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. No indemnification, hold harmless or exoneration for Expenses shall be made under this Section 4 in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged by a court to be liable to the Company, unless and only to the extent that any court in which the Proceeding was brought or the Delaware Court shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification, to be held harmless or to exoneration.
INDEMNITY IN PROCEEDINGS BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE COMPANY
5. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is a party to (or a participant in) and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, in whole or in part, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith. If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter. If the Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding, the Company also shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee against all Expenses reasonably incurred in connection with a claim, issue or matter related to any claim, issue, or matter on which the Indemnitee was successful. For purposes of this Section and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
INDEMNIFICATION FOR EXPENSES OF A PARTY WHO IS WHOLLY OR PARTLY SUCCESSFUL
6. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he shall be indemnified and held harmless against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith.
INDEMNIFICATION FOR EXPENSES OF A WITNESS
7. .
ADDITIONAL INDEMNIFICATION, HOLD HARMLESS AND EXONERATION RIGHTS
 
 
Proceeding (including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) against all Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the Proceeding.
 
 
 
The Company hereby agrees to fully indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee from any claims for contribution that may be brought by officers, directors or employees of the Company other than Indemnitee who may be jointly liable with Indemnitee.
9. . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated under this Agreement to make any indemnification, hold harmless or exoneration payment in connection with any claim madeagainst Indemnitee:
EXCLUSIONS
 
 
 
 
prior to or after final disposition of any Proceeding. Advances shall be unsecured and interest free. Advances shall be made without regard to Indemnitee's ability to repay the Expenses and without regard to Indemnitee's ultimate entitlement to be indemnified, held harmless or exonerated under the other provisions of this Agreement. Advances shall include any and all reasonable Expenses incurred pursuing a Proceeding to enforce this right of advancement, including Expenses incurred preparing and forwarding statements to the Company to support the advances claimed. The Indemnitee shall qualify for advances, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, solely upon the execution and delivery to the Company of an undertaking providing that the Indemnitee undertakes to repay the advance to the extent that it is ultimately determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company under the provisions of this Agreement, the Charter, the Bylaws of the Company, applicable law or otherwise. This Section 10(a) shall not apply to any claim made by Indemnitee for which an indemnification, hold harmless or exoneration payment is excluded pursuant to Section 9.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or Expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification) and the Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom.
 
 
 
 
indemnification in accordance with Section 11(b) of this Agreement, and the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by any person, persons or entity of any determination contrary to that presumption. Neither the failure of the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expenses, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, is not timely made pursuant to Section 10 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to Section 12(a) of this Agreement within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 5, 6, 7 or the last sentence of Section 12(a) of this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, (v) a contribution payment is not made in a timely manner pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement, (vi) payment of indemnification pursuant to Section 3 or 4 of this Agreement is not made within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, or (vii) payment to Indemnitee pursuant to any hold harmless or exoneration rights under this Agreement or otherwise is not made within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication by the Delaware Court to such indemnification, hold harmless, exoneration, contribution or advancement rights. Alternatively, Indemnitee, at his option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Except as set forth herein, the provisions of Delaware law (without regard to its conflict of laws rules) shall apply to any such arbitration. The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration.
 
 
 
 
permitted by applicable law, such Expenses which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any judicial proceeding or arbitration brought by Indemnitee (i) to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Agreement or any other indemnification, hold harmless, exoneration, advancement or contribution agreement or provision of the Charter, or the Company's Bylaws now or hereafter in effect; or (ii) for recovery or advances under any insurance policy maintained by any person for the benefit of Indemnitee, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, advance, contribution or insurance recovery, as the case may be.
 
15. . In the event of a Potential Change in Control, the Company shall, upon written request by Indemnitee, create a "Trust" for the benefit of Indemnitee and from time to time upon written request of Indemnitee shall fund such Trust in an amount sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time of each such request to be incurred in connection with investigating, preparing for, participating in or defending any Proceedings, and any and all judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such judgments, fines penalties and amounts paid in settlement) in connection with any and all Proceedings from time to time actually paid or claimed, reasonably anticipated or proposed to be paid. The trustee of the Trust (the "Trustee") shall be a bank or trust company or other individual or entity chosen by the Indemnitee and reasonably acceptable to the Company. Nothing in this Section 15 shall relieve the Company of any of its obligations under this Agreement. The amount or amounts to be deposited in the Trust pursuant to the foregoing funding obligation shall be determined by mutual agreement of the Indemnitee and the Company or, if the Company and the Indemnitee are unable to reach such an agreement, by Independent Counsel selected in accordance with Section 12(b) of this Agreement. The terms of the Trust shall provide that, except upon the consent of both the Indemnitee and the Company, upon a Change in Control: (a) the Trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded, without the written consent of the Indemnitee; (b) the Trustee shall advance, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, within two (2) business days of a request by the Indemnitee and upon the execution and delivery to the Company of an undertaking providing that the Indemnitee undertakes to repay the advance to the extent that it is ultimately determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, held harmless or exonerated by the Company; (c) the Trust shall continue to be funded by the Company in accordance with the funding obligations set forth above; (d) the Trustee shall promptly pay to the Indemnitee all amounts for which the Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification, or to be held harmless or exonerated pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise; and (e) all unexpended funds in such Trust shall revert to the Company upon mutual agreement by the Indemnitee and the Company or, if the Indemnitee and the Company are unable to reach such an agreement, by Independent Counsel selected in accordance with Section 12(b) of this Agreement, that the Indemnitee has been fully indemnified, held harmless and exonerated under the terms of this Agreement. The Trust shall be governed by Delaware law (without regard to its conflicts of laws rules) and the Trustee shall consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court in accordance with Section 23 of this Agreement.
ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST
16. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, to the extent requested by the Indemnitee and approved by the Board, the Company may at any time and from time to time provide security to the Indemnitee for the Company's obligations hereunder through an irrevocable bank line of credit, funded trust or other collateral. Any such security, once provided to the Indemnitee, may not be revoked or released without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee.
SECURITY
 
 
 
 
18. . All agreements and obligations of the Company contained herein shall continue during the period Indemnitee serves as a director or officer of the Company or as a director, officer, trustee, partner, managing member, fiduciary, employee or agent of any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other Enterprise which Indemnitee serves at the request of the Company and shall continue thereafter so long as Indemnitee shall be subject to any possible Proceeding (including any rights of appeal thereto and any Proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 14 of this Agreement) by reason of his Corporate Status, whether or not he is acting in any such capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification can be provided under this Agreement.
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
19. . If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section, paragraph or sentence of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law; (b) such provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section, paragraph or sentence of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.
SEVERABILITY
20. .
ENFORCEMENT AND BINDING EFFECT
 
 
 
of the business or assets of the Company), shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other Enterprise at the Company's request, and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and his or her spouse, assigns, heirs, devisees, executors and administrators and other legal representatives.
 
 
21. . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions of this Agreement nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
MODIFICATION AND WAIVER
22. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) if delivered by hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, or (ii) mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third (3rd) business day after the date on which it is so mailed:
NOTICES
 
 
 
or to any other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee in writing by the Company.
23. . This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws rules. Except with respect to any arbitration commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 14(a) of this Agreement, the Company and
APPLICABLE LAW AND CONSENT TO JURISDICTION
Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally: (a) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in the Delaware Court and not in any other state or federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country; (b) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement; (c) appoint irrevocably, to the extent such party is not a resident of the State of Delaware, CT Corporation, as its agent in the State of Delaware or any other such agent as designated by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee as such party's agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such action or proceeding against such party with the same legal force and validity as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware; (d) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the Delaware Court; and (e) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum, or is subject (in whole or in part) to a jury trial.
24. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced to evidence the existence of this Agreement.
IDENTICAL COUNTERPARTS
25. . Use of the masculine pronoun shall be deemed to include usage of the feminine pronoun where appropriate. The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.
MISCELLANEOUS
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be signed as of the day and year first above written.
 


