FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20070621170312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The Form 8-K originally filed by Whirlpool Corporation (the "Company" or "Whirlpool") with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2007 is hereby supplemented by this Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
EXPLANATORY NOTE:
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 5, 2007, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K under Item 5.02 to report that David L. Swift, President of Whirlpool North America and a director, was leaving the Company and that Michael A. Todman was assuming that position and Paulo F. M. Periquito was promoted to the position of President of Whirlpool International. As required by Item 5.02 of Form 8-K, the Company stated in the Form 8-K that the material terms of amended compensation arrangements for Messrs. Swift and Periquito were unavailable and would be reported when finalized, as permitted by Instruction 2 to this Item 5.02. These arrangements were finalized and approved by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors on June 19, 2007. This Form 8-K/A is being filed to provide the required additional information.
As previously disclosed, Mr. Swift will serve the Company in a non-executive capacity until July 15, 2007. In connection with Mr. Swift leaving the Company, he will receive:
David L. Swift.
 
 
 
 
As a result of his promotion, Mr. Periquito will receive the following:
Paulo F. M. Periquito.
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, the terms of Mr. Todman's compensation arrangements have not changed as a result of him assuming the position of President of Whirlpool North America; however, on June 19, 2007 the Human Resources Committee awarded Mr. Todman 30,000 phantom restricted stock units under the Company's Career Stock Program.
Michael A. Todman.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


