FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20071023084508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 23, 2007, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the third-quarter 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Jill Saletta, 269/923-7405
Jill.Saletta@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Larry Venturelli, 269/923-4678
Larry.Venturelli@Whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that third-quarter 2007 earnings from continuing operations were $175 million, or $2.20 per diluted share, up approximately 31 percent from the $134 million, or $1.68 per diluted share, reported in the same period last year. Net sales of $4.8 billion, which were impacted by a weak U.S. market, remained unchanged from last year's levels.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., October 23, 2007
Third-quarter earnings reflected strong improvement within the company's international businesses, cost-efficiency realization associated with last year's acquisition of Maytag, productivity improvements, cost controls and lower global taxes. The company's results also included $41 million of gains associated with asset sales and the sale of an investment, compared to the $42 million of asset sale gains reported in the previous year period. Results were adversely affected by significantly higher material and oil-related costs, lower demand within the United States and unfavorable currency.
"Our global operating platform, product innovation and strong consumer brands have enabled us to effectively manage through both the unprecedented global material cost environment which began more than three years ago, and more recent industry demand declines within the United States," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "The international economic environment has remained favorable and our international businesses continue to deliver record financial results. The combination of record material and oil-related cost increases and weaker than expected appliance demand in the U.S. have negatively impacted our North American business."
During the quarter, Whirlpool Corporation repurchased $150 million of common stock, bringing its year-to-date total to $251 million. Approximately $214 million remains available under the company's $500 million share repurchase program.
NEW INNOVATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW*
third-quarter revenue of $2.9 billion was down 8 percent versus the prior year period primarily due to weak U.S. industry demand and lower OEM shipments. Industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)** declined 5 percent for both the current quarter and year-to-date period.
Whirlpool North America
Operating profit of $132 million declined 24 percent from the previous year period primarily due to the continuation of significant material and oil-related cost increases for base metals, component parts, steel and fuel, as well as lower than expected U.S. demand. Continued strong acquisition efficiency realization partially offset the higher costs.
Industry shipment trends are expected to improve during the fourth quarter following five consecutive quarters of year-over-year declines. Based on current economic conditions, the company now expects full-year 2007 U.S. industry unit shipments to decline approximately 4 percent.
revenue of $1 billion increased 12 percent from the prior-year period representing a third-quarter record, led by the region's top selling brand and new innovative product offerings. Excluding currency translation, sales increased by 3 percent. Industry demand during the quarter was estimated to have increased approximately 2 percent.
Whirlpool Europe's
Whirlpool
Operating profit increased from $57 million to $84 million during the period. The current quarter included a $32 million asset sale gain compared to an $8 million gain reported in the prior year. Results also reflected productivity improvements as well as the benefits from higher volume and improved product mix. Partially offsetting the improved operating profit performance were significantly higher material costs during the quarter.
Based on current economic conditions in Europe, the company continues to expect full-year industry unit shipments to increase approximately 2 to 3 percent.
reported record third-quarter revenue and operating profit. Revenue increased 23 percent to $813 million driven by strong appliance industry growth, the impact from cost-based price adjustments implemented during the quarter, continued new innovative product introductions and strong economic conditions throughout the region. Excluding the impact from currency, sales for appliances and compressors increased approximately 10 percent. Regional unit shipments of appliances were slightly below industry demand which grew by approximately 16 percent, primarily due to the implementation of cost-based price adjustments during the quarter. For the year, regional shipments continued to exceed industry growth.
Whirlpool Latin America
Operating profit increased 85 percent to an all-time quarterly record of $103 million during the period and margins increased to 12.7 percent from the 8.5 percent reported last year. Strong demand for the region's top-selling innovative brands, improved pricing, strong productivity and tax credits mitigated higher material costs during the quarter.
Based on the current economic environment in Brazil, the company continues to expect full-year 2007 appliance industry unit shipments to increase 15 to 20 percent.
reported quarterly sales of $123 million, increasing 18 percent from the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased approximately 7 percent led by successful new innovative product launches and improved product mix within India, the region's largest market. The regional operating loss of $5 million increased from last year's level primarily due to increased brand investment and higher inventory transition costs.
Whirlpool Asia
Based on current economic conditions in Asia, the company continues to expect full-year 2007 industry unit shipments to increase 5 to 10 percent.
Outlook
"While current economic conditions are challenging, we have continued to invest in our strategy, completed the integration of the largest acquisition in company history and introduced a record number of new innovative products," said Fettig. "We are well positioned to further increase shareholder value in the future as we continue to build our position as a strong global consumer products company. The benefits from our global operating platform, innovative consumer brands, and acquisition efficiencies in excess of $400 million will enable us to increase earnings and free cash flow during 2007, despite record material cost increases of approximately $570 million and weak demand trends in the U.S. market."
Whirlpool continues to expect full-year 2007 earnings per diluted share from continuing operations to be in the $8.00 to $8.50 range and free cash flow of $600 million to $650 million.
Cash Flow Reconciliation
The table below reconciles projected 2007 cash provided by continuing operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure. Management believes that free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including the difficulty associated with comparing companies that use similarly named non-GAAP measures whose calculations may differ from the company's calculations. As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by continuing operations after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses. Free cash flow does not include proceeds from the sale of Maytag businesses. The projections shown here are based upon many estimates and are inherently subject to change based on future decisions made by management and the board of directors of the company, and significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties and contingencies.
(millions of dollars)
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $18 billion, 73,000 employees, and 70 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at .
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Bauknecht
http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com
Whirlpool Additional Information:
This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices, as well as expectations as to the integration with Maytag Corporation. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool Corporation's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European, and the strength of trade customers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its strong relationship with Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 14% of Whirlpool's 2006 consolidated net sales of $18.1 billion) and other significant trade customers, and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) Whirlpool's ability to complete the integration of Maytag Corporation on a timely basis and fully realize the anticipated benefits of the merger while remaining within the current cost estimates; (4) demand for Whirlpool's products, including the strength of the U.S. building industry and the level of interest rates; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, including productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, acceleration of the rate of innovation and realization of cost-based price increases; (6) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and zinc) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (7) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (8) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (9) changes in market conditions, health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post retirement benefit plans; (10) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations, including regulations in Europe regarding appliance disposal; (11) potential exposure to product liability claims, including claims that may arise through Whirlpool's regular investigations of potential quality issues as part of its ongoing effort to provide quality products to consumers; (12) the impact of labor relations; (13) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (14) volatility in Whirlpool's effective tax rate; (15) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (16) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters, or terrorist attacks; and (17) risks associated with operations outside the United States. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 


