FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20080723061926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 23, 2008, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the second-quarter 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that second-quarter earnings from continuing operations of $117 million decreased 27 percent to $1.53 per diluted share compared to $161 million, or $2.00 per diluted share reported during the previous year's quarter. Revenue of $5.1 billion for the quarter increased 5 percent from the $4.9 billion reported in the second quarter of 2007.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., July 23, 2008
"Whirlpool made solid progress toward improving operating results from first-quarter levels despite an increasingly challenging economic environment," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "The cost inflation facing our business is significant, and we continue to take steps to address this challenge."
Net earnings for the quarter reflected challenging macroeconomic conditions in the company's U.S. business, as industry unit demand declined approximately 8 percent compared to the prior year. Operating profit totaled $203 million compared with $247 million in the prior year. Second-quarter operating results were unfavorably impacted by significantly higher material and oil-related costs, lower U.S. industry unit volume, and an increase in restructuring costs. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by productivity initiatives and improved results within the company's Latin American operations.
SECOND-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
second-quarter sales of $2.9 billion declined 4 percent from the prior year. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)* declined approximately 8 percent.
Whirlpool North America
Operating profit of $101 million declined from $179 million reported in the previous year. Significantly higher material and oil-related costs, lower industry demand and increased selling, general and administrative
expense due primarily to increased brand investment were the primary factors affecting the company's second-quarter operating profit. These factors were partially offset by improved productivity and favorable product price/mix.
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year 2008 U.S. industry unit shipments to decline approximately 6 percent to 7 percent from 2007 levels versus the 5 percent to 6 percent decline previously expected.
reported second-quarter sales of $1.1 billion, a 17 percent increase from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales increased 2 percent in the quarter. Overall industry demand during the quarter declined approximately 2 percent from the prior year.
Whirlpool Europe
Operating profit decreased 1 percent to $50 million. Operating profit was unfavorably impacted by higher material and oil-related costs. These increased costs were partially offset by improved product price/mix and productivity improvements during the quarter.
Based on current economic conditions in the European region, the company continues to expect full-year 2008 industry unit shipments to decline 2 percent to 3 percent from 2007 levels.
net sales increased 22 percent to $1.0 billion. Latin America sales results reflect strong demand for the company's innovative products in the region. Excluding currency translation, sales for appliances and compressors increased approximately 7 percent.
Whirlpool Latin America
Operating profit totaled $133 million in the second quarter, increasing 40 percent from the prior year. Increased unit shipments, regional tax incentives and strong productivity and cost controls were the main factors behind the year-over-year increase.
Based on current economic conditions in Latin America, the company continues to expect full-year 2008 industry unit shipments to rise 5 percent to 8 percent from 2007 levels.
reported second quarter sales of $178 million, increasing 9 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased approximately 8 percent predominantly due to higher volume in the company's India operations.
Whirlpool Asia
The region reported an operating profit of $5 million during the quarter compared with $2 million in the previous year. The year-over-year increase in operating profit resulted from higher volume and favorable trends in productivity and product price/mix. These favorable items were partially offset by higher material costs.
The company continues to expect full-year 2008 industry unit shipments to increase 5 percent to 10 percent from 2007 levels.
Outlook
"The challenges resulting from significant global commodity inflation have persisted and, in many instances, accelerated," said Fettig. "We continue to execute previously announced cost-based price increases and cost reduction actions related to our global operating platform initiatives. These actions, coupled with other productivity initiatives and bringing innovative new products to the marketplace, are critical to our ability to offset the record commodity and oil-related costs and lower industry demand."
For the full-year 2008, Whirlpool continues to expect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations to be in the $7.00 to $7.50 range and to generate $500 million to $550 million in free cash flow.**
 
NEW INNOVATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Reconciliation
The table below reconciles actual 2007 and 2008 and projected 2008 cash provided by continuing operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure. Management believes that free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including the difficulty associated with comparing companies that use similarly named non-GAAP measures whose calculations may differ from the company's calculations. As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by continuing operations after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses. The projections shown here are based upon many estimates and are inherently subject to change based on future decisions made by management and the board of directors of the company, and significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties and contingencies.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion, 73,000 employees, and 72 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool Corporation's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 12% of Whirlpool's 2007 consolidated net sales of $19.4 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) changes in economic conditions, including the strength of the U.S. building industry and the level of interest rates; (4) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (5) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (6) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (7) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (8) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post retirement benefit plans; (9) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations; (10) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (11) the impact of labor relations; (12) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (13) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; and (14) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
PART I - FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
 
 
 


