FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20091023063330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 23, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the third quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_relations@whirlpool.com
 Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today third-quarter 2009 earnings of $1.15 per diluted share compared to $2.15 per diluted share reported in the prior year. The company reported net sales of $4.5 billion, a decrease of 8 percent from the year-ago period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, the company's third-quarter sales declined approximately 3 percent.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., October 23, 2009
Third-quarter operating profit increased 8 percent compared to the prior year and was favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives. These favorable items were partially offset by lower global sales and production volumes, unfavorable foreign currency impact and lower monetization of certain tax credits. Third-quarter results included a previously announced expense of $43 million, or $0.50 per share net of tax, related to an affiliate settlement agreement with the Brazilian competition commission.
"Our strong operating performance improvement in the quarter highlights our successful cost reduction efforts, the strength of our global operating platform, our commitment to product innovation and strong consumer brands," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "These factors, combined with our continued emphasis on marketplace execution, will remain key focal points as we manage through this challenging macroeconomic environment."
THIRD-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
Third-quarter sales of $2.5 billion declined 9 percent from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 7 percent from the prior year. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)* declined 6 percent during the third quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $140 million compared to $74 million in the previous year. The improvement was primarily the result of cost reduction and productivity initiatives. These factors were partially offset by lower unit production volume, unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations and lower product price/mix.
Based on the current economic outlook, the company expects full-year 2009 U.S. industry unit shipments to decline approximately 10 percent compared with its prior expectation of a decline between 10 percent and 12 percent.
Whirlpool Europe
Whirlpool Europe reported third-quarter sales of $899 million, a 17 percent decrease from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 11 percent. Overall industry unit demand during the quarter declined approximately 10 percent from the prior year.
The region reported an operating profit of $14 million during the third quarter compared with $52 million reported in the previous year. Results were negatively impacted by substantially lower volumes and the non-recurrence of an asset sale and insurance settlement recorded in the previous year. These factors were partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
The company continues to expect full-year 2009 industry unit shipments to decline approximately 13 percent from 2008 levels.
Whirlpool Latin America
Third-quarter net sales totaled $992 million compared to $989 million in the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 12 percent. The sales increase was driven by a strong increase in Brazilian appliance demand. During the quarter, the company's Brazilian appliance sales increased 40 percent in local currency and the company continued to strengthen its leadership position in the marketplace.
Operating profit totaled $93 million in the third quarter compared with $116 million in the prior year. The lower profitability is primarily related to significantly lower monetization levels of certain tax credits and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. These items were partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives and an overall increase in unit shipments.
The company currently anticipates full-year 2009 Brazilian appliance shipments will increase more than 15 percent compared to the previous expectation of more than 10 percent.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported third-quarter sales of $162 million, increasing 18 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased 26 percent. Operating profit during the quarter totaled $8 million, an increase of $8 million from the prior year. The year-over-year increase in operating profit resulted from higher unit volume, higher productivity and cost reductions and a $3 million asset sale gain. These favorable items were partially offset by unfavorable product price/mix.
The company anticipates full-year 2009 industry unit shipments in Asia to be up 10 percent compared to the previous expectation of unit shipments of flat-to-up 5 percent from 2008 levels.
Outlook
For the full-year 2009, Whirlpool Corporation expects earnings per diluted share to be approximately $4.25 compared with the prior expectation of $3.50 to $4.00 per diluted share. For the full year, the company expects to generate free cash flow** of approximately $500 million to $600 million compared with the prior expectation of $300 million to $400 million.
The company's earnings and free cash flow projections are based upon current economic forecasts and business plans.
"Our improved outlook reflects our success in restructuring our business to aggressively align our capacity and resources to lower demand levels," said Fettig. "While we continue to see uncertain and volatile demand levels in many markets, we are well-positioned to deliver higher 2009 earnings and free cash flow compared with our previous expectations."
* T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
** A reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to cash provided by operations appears below under the heading "Cash Flow Reconciliation."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD-QUARTER 2009 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Reconciliation
The table below reconciles actual 2009 and 2008 and projected 2009 cash provided by operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure. Management believes that free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including the difficulty associated with comparing companies that use similarly named non-GAAP measures whose calculations may differ from the company's calculations. As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operations after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion in 2008, 70,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 11% of Whirlpool's 2008 consolidated net sales of $18.9 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8)
fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (10) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (11) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (12) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (13) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (14) the impact of labor relations; (15) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (16) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 


