FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20090831090102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
(a) On August 28, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation (the "Company") announced changes to its North American manufacturing operations which will result in the closure of its manufacturing facility in Evansville, Indiana in mid-2010. The Company currently expects that approximately 1,100 full-time positions will be eliminated as a result of the closure.
The Company's decision resulted from a comprehensive review of consolidation alternatives designed to reduce excess capacity and improve costs within the refrigeration product category. The Company expects to transfer production of top freezer refrigerators to one of its existing facilities in Mexico and to transfer production of icemakers to a Company-owned site which has not yet been determined. The Company is evaluating alternatives for the Refrigeration Product Development Center which is co-located with the Evansville manufacturing facility and has approximately 300 employees.
(b) The Company estimates that it will incur approximately $21 million in employee termination costs, $13 million in equipment relocation costs, $5 million in asset impairment costs, and $12 million in other associated costs in connection with the exit of this facility.
(c) The Company estimates that it will incur a total of $51 million in costs (as itemized above) in connection with the exit of this facility. The Company expects to recognize approximately $21 million of these costs in the 2009 fiscal year, $27 million of these costs in the 2010 fiscal year, and $3 million of these costs in the 2011 fiscal year.
(d) The Company estimates that approximately $33 million of the estimated $51 million total cost will result in future cash expenditures.
A copy of the press release announcing these actions is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements which use the words "expects" or "estimates." Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. For information about the factors that could cause such differences, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2008, including the information set forth under the caption "Risk Factors."
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
 Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today changes to its North American manufacturing operations resulting in the closure of its manufacturing facility in Evansville, Indiana. The closure will eliminate approximately 1,100 full time positions in mid-2010.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., August 28, 2009
Production of top freezer refrigerators made at Evansville will be transferred to one of the company's existing manufacturing facilities in Mexico. Production of icemakers produced in Evansville will be relocated to a company-owned site yet to be determined. The announcement follows a comprehensive review of alternatives for product consolidation within the refrigeration product category.
The company also said that it is currently evaluating options for the best location for the Refrigeration Product Development Center, which is co-located with the Evansville manufacturing facility and has approximately 300 employees. A decision is expected in the near future.
"This was a difficult but necessary decision," said Al Holaday, vice president, North American Manufacturing Operations, Whirlpool Corporation. "To reduce excess capacity and improve costs the decision was made to consolidate production within our existing North American manufacturing facilities. This will allow us to streamline our operations, improve our capacity utilization, reduce product overlap between plants, and meet future production requirements.
"We are announcing this decision nearly one-year in advance as part of our commitment to make the transition as smooth as possible."
Whirlpool is committed to helping the affected employees and their families with the transition. Conversations regarding transition assistance will begin immediately. The company also said it would work with local and state officials to help ensure that all available training resources are made available to affected employees, and to reposition affected facilities for future job development opportunities within the community.
The company's earnings and cash flow outlook for the full-year 2009 remain unchanged from the last update contained in its earnings release dated July 22, 2009.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion in 2008, 70,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 11% of Whirlpool's 2008 consolidated net sales of $18.9 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (10) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (11) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (12) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (13) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (14) the impact of labor relations; (15) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (16) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.


