FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20090427061426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the first quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Jill Saletta, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_relations@whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today first-quarter 2009 earnings were $0.91 per diluted share compared to $1.22 per diluted share reported in the prior year. The company reported net sales of $3.6 billion, a decrease of 23 percent from the year-ago period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, the company's first-quarter sales declined approximately 14 percent.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., April 27, 2009
First-quarter earnings were favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives, favorable price/mix and an income tax benefit. These favorable items were partially offset by substantially lower global sales and production volumes, and higher material costs. The company's results included expenses before tax of $110 million related to restructuring, product recall, a foreign operating tax settlement, legal and other costs. In addition, the company recorded a pre-tax benefit of $97 million related to a postretirement benefit plan change and lower depreciation expense as a result of a change in accounting method.
"Whirlpool made significant progress in the execution of our key operational priorities during the first quarter," said Jeff M. Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite the continued macroeconomic challenges, our results were positively impacted by previously announced cost savings actions and restructuring initiatives."
FIRST-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
First-quarter sales of $2.1 billion declined 20 percent from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 17 percent from the prior year. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)* declined 16 percent during the first quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $164 million compared to $44 million in the previous year. The improvement was the result of favorable price/mix, cost reduction initiatives and an $87 million gain related to the curtailment of a retiree health savings account. These factors were partially offset by sharply lower unit production volume, higher material costs and a $23 million expense related to product recall costs.
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year 2009 U.S. industry unit shipments to decline approximately 10 percent to 12 percent from 2008 levels compared with its previous expectation of a 10 percent decline.
Whirlpool Europe
Whirlpool Europe reported first-quarter sales of $696 million, a 26 percent decrease from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 12 percent from the previous year. Overall industry unit demand during the quarter declined approximately 14 percent from the prior year.
Operating profit was breakeven compared with a profit of $45 million reported in the previous year. European results were adversely impacted by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations and substantially lower unit production volumes. These challenges were partially offset by cost reduction initiatives.
Based on current economic conditions in the European region, the company expects full-year 2009 industry unit shipments to decline approximately 10 percent from 2008 levels compared with its previous expectation of an 8 percent decline.
Whirlpool Latin America
First-quarter net sales declined 26 percent to $689 million. Excluding currency translation, sales for appliances and compressors decreased approximately 9 percent. The sales decline reflected lower appliance industry unit demand outside of Brazil and in the global compressor operation.
Operating profit totaled $57 million in the first quarter compared with $119 million in the prior year. The lower profitability is primarily related to unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, higher material costs, lower unit volume and a $26 million expense related to an operating tax settlement. These items were partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
Based on current economic conditions, the company continues to expect full-year 2009 Brazilian appliance shipments to be flat to down 5 percent.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported first-quarter sales of $120 million, decreasing 13 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased 3 percent from the previous year. Operating profit during the quarter totaled $5 million compared to $2 million in the prior year. The year-over-year increase in operating profit resulted from favorable trends in productivity and product price/mix. These favorable items were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
The company continues to expect full-year 2009 industry unit shipments to be flat to down 5 percent from 2008 levels.
Outlook
For the full-year 2009, Whirlpool Corporation's expectation of earnings per diluted share between $3.00 and $4.00 remains unchanged. For the full year, the company expects to generate free cash flow** between $300 million and $400 million. The company's earnings and free cash flow projections are based upon our current economic forecasts and business plans.
"As we had previously anticipated, global macroeconomic factors have remained negative and volatile during the first quarter," said Fettig. "We remain focused on aggressively managing our cost structure and bringing best in class products and innovation to the marketplace."
 
FIRST-QUARTER 2009 INNOVATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST-QUARTER 2009 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Reconciliation
The table below reconciles actual 2009 and 2008 and projected 2009 cash provided by operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure. Management believes that free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including the difficulty associated with comparing companies that use similarly named non-GAAP measures whose calculations may differ from the company's calculations. As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operations after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses.
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion, 70,000 employees, and 68 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
Whirlpool Additional Information:
This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool Corporation's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 11% of Whirlpool's 2008 consolidated net sales of $18.9 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (10) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (11) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (12) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (13) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (14) the impact of labor relations; (15) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (16) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 


