FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20090722061535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 22, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the second quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_relations@whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today second-quarter 2009 earnings of $1.04 per diluted share compared to $1.53 per diluted share reported in the prior year. The company reported net sales of $4.2 billion, a decrease of 18 percent from the year-ago period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, the company's second-quarter sales declined approximately 10 percent.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., July 22, 2009
Second-quarter operating profit was favorably impacted by cost reduction initiatives and favorable product price/mix. These favorable items were offset by substantially lower global sales and production volumes, unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations and lower monetization of certain tax credits.
"Consumer demand for appliances was significantly lower in the second quarter, which negatively impacted our global unit volumes," said Jeff M. Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation chairman and chief executive officer. "Late last year, we took actions to restructure our business, aligning our capacity and resources to lower demand levels. Our results reflect these actions, and we will continue to execute our plans to address this volatile global economic environment."
SECOND-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
Second-quarter sales of $2.4 billion declined 17 percent from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 14 percent from the prior year. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)* declined 14 percent during the second quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $120 million compared to $101 million in the previous year. The improvement was primarily the result of favorable product price/mix and cost reduction initiatives. These factors were partially offset by lower unit production volume and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.
Based on current economic conditions, the company expects full-year 2009 U.S. industry unit shipments to decline between 10 percent and 12 percent.
Whirlpool Europe
Whirlpool Europe reported second-quarter sales of $786 million, a 25 percent decrease from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 13 percent. Overall industry unit demand during the quarter declined approximately 12 percent from the prior year.
The region reported an operating loss of $12 million during the second quarter compared with a profit of $50 million reported in the previous year. European results were negatively impacted by substantially lower unit sales and production volumes and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. These challenges were partially offset by cost reduction initiatives and favorable product price/mix.
Based on current economic conditions in the European region, the company expects full-year 2009 industry unit shipments to decline approximately 13 percent from 2008 levels, compared with its previous expectation of a 10 percent decline.
Whirlpool Latin America
Second-quarter net sales declined 16 percent to $844 million. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 1 percent. The sales increase was driven by a strong increase in Brazilian appliance volume as a result of a government incentive program, while appliance and compressor sales outside of Brazil continued to decline. During the quarter, the company's Brazilian appliance sales increased 28 percent excluding currency translation, and the company continued to strengthen its leadership position in the marketplace.
Operating profit totaled $75 million in the second quarter compared with $133 million in the prior year. The lower profitability is primarily related to unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, significantly lower monetization levels of certain tax credits and unfavorable material and oil-related costs. These items were partially offset by cost reduction initiatives and a benefit related to an energy credit.
The company now expects full-year 2009 Brazilian appliance shipments to increase more than 10 percent compared to its previous expectation of flat-to-down 5 percent. The expected change is the result of the Brazilian government's decision to extend tax reductions on certain appliances, which has had a favorable impact on consumer demand.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported second-quarter sales of $184 million, increasing 3 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased 19 percent. Operating profit during the quarter totaled $11 million compared to $5 million in the prior year. The year-over-year increase in operating profit resulted from higher unit volume and cost reductions. These favorable items were partially offset by unfavorable product price/mix.
The company anticipates full-year 2009 industry unit shipments in Asia to be flat-to-up 5 percent compared to the previous expectation of unit shipments of flat-to-down 5 percent from 2008 levels.
Outlook
For the full-year 2009, Whirlpool Corporation expects earnings per diluted share between $3.50 and $4.00 compared with the prior expectation of $3.00 to $4.00 per diluted share. For the full year, the company expects to generate free cash flow** between $300 million and $400 million. The company's earnings and free cash flow projections are based upon current economic forecasts and business plans.
"When we provided our 2009 outlook earlier this year, we established three key operating priorities in anticipation of a difficult macroeconomic environment: cost reduction, price/mix and lower working capital," said Fettig. "While the demand environment remains a significant challenge, we are making strong progress in our key priorities to offset the volume declines."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND-QUARTER 2009 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Reconciliation
The table below reconciles actual 2009 and 2008 and projected 2009 cash provided by operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure. Management believes that free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including the difficulty associated with comparing companies that use similarly named non-GAAP measures whose calculations may differ from the company's calculations. As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operations after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses.
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion, 70,000 employees, and 68 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
Whirlpool Additional Information:
This document contains forward-looking statements that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool Corporation's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 11% of Whirlpool's 2008 consolidated net sales of $18.9 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (10) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (11) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (12) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (13) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (14) the impact of labor relations; (15) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (16) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 


