FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20091217090047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Management Changes
On December 15, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation ("Whirlpool") announced that the Board of Directors had, effective January 1, 2010, elected Marc R. Bitzer to the position of President, Whirlpool North America. Mr. Bitzer will succeed Michael A. Todman, who is assuming the position of President, Whirlpool International as of that date. Paulo F.M.O. Periquito is resigning as President, Whirlpool International as of December 31, 2009. Mr. Periquito will remain Chairman of the Board of Whirlpool, S.A., Whirlpool's Brazilian subsidiary, until the end of his current term which is expected to end on or before April 30, 2010.
Biographical and other information about Mr. Bitzer and Mr. Todman required by Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K is contained in Whirlpool's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and such information is incorporated by reference herein.
In connection with his promotion, the Human Resources Committee of Whirlpool's Board of Directors (the "Committee") increased Mr. Bitzer's annual base salary for 2010 from $650,000 to $750,000. The Committee increased Mr. Bitzer's target award under the Performance Excellence Plan, Whirlpool's annual incentive plan, from 85% to 100% of annual base salary, and his target award under the Strategic Excellence Program, Whirlpool's long term incentive plan, from 200% to 250% of annual base salary, effective for the 2010 performance year. The Committee also increased Mr. Todman's annual base salary for 2010 from $760,000 to $825,000.
The material terms of an amended compensation arrangement for Mr. Periquito have not been determined at this time, but will be reported when finalized and approved by the Committee.
The press releases announcing these management changes are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 respectively and are incorporated herein by reference.
Appointment of New Director
On December 15, 2009 the Board of Directors also appointed William D. Perez a Director of Whirlpool and a member of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and its Human Resources Committee. Mr. Perez's compensation will be similar to other non-employee directors of the Company, which is described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 2, 2009.
The press release announcing Mr. Perez's appointment is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Termination of Equity Plan
In addition, on December 15, 2009 the Board of Directors terminated Whirlpool's Key Employee Treasury Stock Ownership Plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that effective January 1, 2010, Michael A. Todman, currently president, Whirlpool North America, has been named president, Whirlpool International. In this global role, Todman will be accountable for the company's international businesses in Europe, Latin America, Asia, and the Global Information Systems function. Todman will also be accountable for global strategic initiatives in innovation and energy efficiency, and he will continue to report to Whirlpool Chairman and CEO Jeff M. Fettig.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich.  December 16, 2009 
The company also announced that Marc R. Bitzer, currently executive vice president, Whirlpool Corporation, and president, U.S. Operations, is being promoted to the position of president, Whirlpool North America, succeeding Todman. Bitzer will report to Fettig.
"Mike Todman has led the North American business through one of the most challenging economic times in decades," said Fettig. "He completed the integration of Maytag and positioned the business for growth. In his new role, Mike will focus on expanding our position in the rapidly-growing International markets and will also broaden his leadership of key global initiatives.
"During the past year, Marc Bitzer has led the U.S. operations to improved performance and strengthened our leading market position. I am confident that he will continue to lead improvements in our North American operating performance with an emphasis on growing our brands with innovation and disciplined marketplace execution."
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion in 2008, 70,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool Additional Information:
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 11% of Whirlpool's 2008 consolidated net sales of $18.9 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (10) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (11) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (12) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (13) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (14) the impact of labor relations; (15) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (16) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.

Exhibit 99.2
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Jill Saletta, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_relations@whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that Paulo F.M.O. Periquito, 63, will complete his duties as president, Whirlpool International, on December 31, 2009, while continuing to serve as chairman of the board of directors of Whirlpool S.A. (Whirlpool Latin America) until his planned retirement from Whirlpool Corporation on April 30, 2010.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich.  December 16, 2009 
"Paulo Periquito will leave his role with an impressive list of accomplishments for Whirlpool Corporation during his 14-year career," said Jeff M. Fettig, Whirlpool chairman and CEO. "Through his direction, the company's Latin America Region has grown significantly and expanded its leadership position. He also led the company's international businesses in Europe and Asia and effectively instilled disciplined management processes throughout the company. Notably, Paulo also grew a generation of leaders, ensuring a smooth transition and continuity of leadership."
"I am proud to be a part of an organization that has accomplished so much," Periquito said. "My retirement has been planned for some time, and I'm pleased to have an orderly transition plan in place. I will always value the relationships I have formed during my time here. Whirlpool Corporation is a great company with wonderful people for whom I have the utmost respect."
Periquito was named president, Whirlpool International in 2007. He joined the company in 1996 as president of the appliance business in Brazil and was named executive vice president, Whirlpool Corporation and president, Whirlpool Latin America, in 1997. A native of Recife in Pernambuco, Brazil, Periquito holds a degree in mechanical engineering from the Federal University of Pernambuco.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion in 2008, 70,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool Additional Information:
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, including Sears Holding Corporation in North America (accounting for approximately 11% of Whirlpool's 2008 consolidated net sales of $18.9 billion) and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) litigation including product liability and product defect claims; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (10) health care cost trends and regulatory changes that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (11) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (12) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (13) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (14) the impact of labor relations; (15) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (16) the cost of compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.

Exhibit 99.3
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Jill Saletta, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_relations@whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today the appointment of William D. Perez, former president and chief executive officer of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company to its board of directors.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., December 15, 2009
"With his exceptionally strong business leadership and deep consumer experience, we expect Bill will bring significant value to our board and company," said Jeff M. Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation's chairman and chief executive officer.
Perez, 62, was president and chief executive officer of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company from 2006 to 2008, when it was acquired by Mars, Incorporated. From 2004 to 2006, he served as president and chief executive officer, Nike, Inc. Perez started his career in 1970 at S.C. Johnson, where he held roles of increasing responsibility, ultimately serving as president and chief executive officer from 1996 to 2004.
Perez is currently a director of Johnson & Johnson and Campbell Soup Company. A native of Akron, Ohio, Perez holds a bachelors degree in Government from Cornell University and a graduate degree in International Management from the Thunderbird School of Global Management.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion in 2008, 70,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at .
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com


