FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20100621155633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Appointment of New Directors
On June 15, 2010, the Board of Directors appointed Samuel R. Allen a Director of Whirlpool Corporation ("Company") and a member of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Human Resources Committee. Mr. Allen's compensation will be similar to other non-employee directors of the Company, which is described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 1, 2010.
On June 15, 2010, the Board of Directors also appointed John D. Liu a Director of the Company and a member of the Board's Audit Committee and Finance Committee. Mr. Liu's compensation will be similar to other non-employee directors of the Company, which is described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 1, 2010.
The press release announcing the appointment of Messrs. Allen and Liu is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Equity Award for Named Executive Officer
On June 15, 2010, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors granted Marc R. Bitzer, a named executive officer, an award of 20,000 restricted stock units from the 2010 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan. The restricted stock units will vest in installments of 50% on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and 50% on the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Upon vesting, the restricted stock units shall be paid out in common stock of the Company on a one-for-one basis.
A form of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to be issued under the 2010 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan for Mr. Bitzer and other participants is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Whirlpool Corporation (also referred to as the "Company") has granted to you a Restricted Stock Unit Award (the "Award") under the Company's 2010 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan (the "Omnibus Plan").
2. The number of Restricted Stock Units provided by the Award and the applicable Vesting Period are set forth in your Account Summary. All vested amounts shall be paid by the Company in shares of common stock, on a one-for-one basis for each restricted stock unit, subject to applicable tax withholding, as soon as administratively feasible but in any event by the later of (i) the end of the year in which the vesting date occurs, or (ii) 2.5 months after the vesting date.
3. If you cease to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries due to disability, or death prior to the expiration of the Vesting Period, all restricted stock units provided by the Award shall immediately vest. All amounts vesting pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid by the Company in shares of common stock, on a one-for-one basis for each restricted stock unit, subject to applicable tax withholding, as soon as administratively feasible but in any event by the later of (i) the end of the year in which you terminate service, or (ii) 2.5 months after the date you terminate service.
4. If you cease to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason other than disability or death prior to the completion of the Vesting Period, the Award shall be forfeited and you shall not be entitled to any payment of any kind whatsoever under the Award, provided however, that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control as defined in the Omnibus Plan, the treatment of the Award shall be as provided under the terms of the Omnibus Plan.
5. Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all federal, state, or local law income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding regarding the Award ("Tax-Related Items"), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by you is and remains your responsibility and that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including the vesting or payment of the Award, the subsequent sale of shares acquired pursuant to the payment of shares under the Award and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the Award to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items.
You authorize the Company and/or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by you from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer, or from payment otherwise owed to you under this Award. Alternatively, or in addition, if permissible under local law, the Company may (i) sell or arrange for the sale of shares that you acquire to meet the withholding obligation for Tax-Related Items, and/or (ii) withhold in shares, provided that the Company only withholds the amount of shares necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount. Finally, you shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of your participation in the Omnibus Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to deliver any Company common stock if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section.
6. By accepting the Award, you acknowledge that:
(i) the Award is governed by the Omnibus Plan and you are voluntarily participating in the Omnibus Plan;
(ii) the Omnibus Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Omnibus Plan and this Agreement;
(iii) your participation in the Omnibus Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate your employment relationship at any time with or without cause;
(iv) the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards, or benefits in lieu of such awards, even if such awards have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(v) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(vi) the Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
(vii) the Award does not include any rights with respect to any of the shares of common stock of the Company (including any voting rights or rights with respect to any dividends of any nature associated with the common stock) issuable under the Award until the Award has vested and is settled by issuance of such shares of common stock to you; and
(viii) the attempted transfer or other disposition of the Award shall be void and shall nullify your Award, resulting in the cancellation of the Award by the Company.
7. No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Award as a result of your termination from employment by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing this Agreement, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.
In the event of involuntary termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive payment under the Award, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (, active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); furthermore, in the event of involuntary termination of employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to payment under the Award after termination of employment, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law. The Board and Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of the Award.
e.g.
8. You may be required to repay the Award, if (i) you are terminated by or otherwise leave employment with the Employer within two years following the vesting date of the Award and such termination of employment arises out, is due to, or is in any way connected with any misconduct or violation of Company or Employer policy or (ii) you become employed with a competitor within the two year period following termination, or for any other reason considered by the Committee in its sole discretion to be detrimental to the Company or its interests.
9. You hereby explicitly accept the Award and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Omnibus Plan. You understand that the Company and the Employer hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Omnibus Plan ("Data"). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Omnibus Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Omnibus Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of stock acquired. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Omnibus Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Omnibus Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
10. Neither this Award nor any shares to be acquired pursuant to any payment under this Award have been or will be registered under any securities laws other than the federal securities laws of the United States. Any shares acquired pursuant to this Award may not be sold, transferred, or otherwise traded without the registration under or an exemption from any applicable requirements of any securities laws applicable to you, and each certificate representing such shares will bear an appropriate legend to that effect. As of the date of this Award, an exemption would be available for residents of Ontario, Canada for sales properly made through the New York Stock Exchange or the Chicago Stock Exchange in the United States, provided that certain limitations relating to the maximum number of holders of Whirlpool common stock in Ontario, Canada, and the maximum number of shares held by them, continue to be met and the Company continues to be subject to the reporting requirements of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934; however, there can be no assurance that any such exemption will be available at any future date.
11. The terms "cease to be employed" or "termination of employment," or words of similar import, as used herein, for purposes of any payments that are payments of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, shall mean "separation from service" as defined in Section 409A of the Code. To the extent any payment or settlement that is a payment of deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code is contingent upon a "change in control," such payment or settlement shall only occur if the event giving rise to the change in control would also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The vesting of the Award shall not be affected by the preceding sentence.
If a payment obligation under the Award arises on account of your separation from service while you are a "specified employee" (as determined under the Whirlpool Corporation Specified Employee Policy), any
payment of "deferred compensation" (as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(1), after giving effect to the exemptions in Treasury Regulation Sections 1.409A-1(b)(3) through (b)(12)) that is scheduled to be paid within six (6) months after such separation from service shall accrue without interest and shall be paid within 15 days after the end of the six-month period beginning on the date of such separation from service or, if earlier, within 15 days after your death.
12. The Committee reserves and shall have the right to change the provisions of this Agreement in any manner that it may deem necessary or advisable to carry out the purpose of this Award as the result of, or to comply with, any change in applicable regulations, interpretation or statutory enactment.
13. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Award or participation in the Omnibus Plan or future awards that may be granted under the Omnibus Plan, if any, by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Omnibus Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and, if requested, to agree to participate in the Omnibus Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
14. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Jill Saletta, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today the appointment of Samuel R. Allen, chairman and chief executive officer of Deere & Company, and John D. Liu, chief executive officer of Essex Equity Capital Management, to its board of directors, effective June 16, 2010.
BENTON HARBOR
, Mich., June 15, 2010
Allen, 56, has served as chairman and chief executive officer of Deere & Company since February 2010. He was appointed president and chief operating officer of the company and a member of the Deere & Company board of directors in June 2009, and was then named president and chief executive officer in August of 2009. Allen joined John Deere in 1975 and held positions of increasing responsibility in the Consumer Products Division, Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division, John Deere Power Systems and the Worldwide Agricultural Division, including managing operations in Latin America, China and East Asia, and Australia.
Allen holds a bachelor's degree in industrial management from Purdue University. He serves as chairman of the Council on Competitiveness.
Liu, 42, has served as chief executive officer of Essex Equity Capital Management, an investment management firm, since March of 2008. Previously, he was employed by Greenhill & Co. for 12 years, where he held positions of increasing responsibility including both chief financial officer and the co-head of U.S. Mergers and Acquisitions. Earlier in his career, Liu worked at Wolfensohn & Co. and was an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Liu holds a master's degree in business administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a bachelor's degree from Harvard University. He also served as a Rotary Foundation Scholar, based at the University of Hong Kong.
"Their proven business leadership make Sam Allen and John Liu outstanding additions to our board," said Jeff M. Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation's chairman and chief executive officer. "We expect their breadth of experience and guidance on business issues will be invaluable to our board of directors and Whirlpool Corporation."
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $17 billion in 2009, 67,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht


