FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20100426170544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the 2010 Whirlpool Corporation annual meeting of stockholders held on April 20, 2010 (the "2010 Annual Meeting"), the stockholders approved the Whirlpool Corporation 2010 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan (the "Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan"). The terms and conditions of the Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan and awards contemplated there under are described in Whirlpool's Proxy Statement dated March 1, 2010, which description is incorporated by reference herein. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein. The Nonemployee Director Stock Option Form of Agreement to be used under the Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.2 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
At the 2010 Annual Meeting, the following items were voted on by stockholders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Whirlpool Corporation (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, hereby establishes and adopts the following 2010 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
1. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
The purpose of the Plan is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company and materially increase stockholder value by: (i) strengthening the Company's capability to develop, maintain, and direct an outstanding management team; (ii) motivating superior performance by means of long-term performance related incentives; (iii) encouraging and providing for obtaining an ownership interest in the Company; (iv) attracting and retaining outstanding executive talent by providing incentive compensation opportunities competitive with other major companies; and (v) enabling executives to participate in the long-term growth and financial success of the Company.
2. DEFINITIONS
"" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Other Share-Based Award, Performance Award or any other right, interest or option relating to Shares or other property (including cash) granted pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
2.1.
Award
"" shall mean any agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing any Award hereunder, whether in writing or through an electronic medium.
2.2.
Award Agreement
"" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
2.3.
Board
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.4.
Code
"" shall mean the Human Resources Committee of the Board or such other committee of directors as is designated by the Board, or a subcommittee thereof formed by the Human Resources Committee or such other committee to act as the Committee hereunder. The Committee shall consist of no fewer than two Directors, each of whom will be intended to be to the extent required by applicable law, rule or regulation (i) a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, (ii) an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, and (iii) an "independent director" for purpose of the rules of the principal U.S. national securities exchange on which the Shares are traded, to the extent required by such rules. If for any reason the appointed Committee does not meet the requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, Section 162(m) of the Code or the rules of the principal U.S. national securities exchange, such noncompliance shall not affect the validity of Awards, grants, interpretations or other actions of the Committee.
2.5.
Committee
 
"" shall mean any consultant or advisor who is a natural person and who provides services to the Company or any Subsidiary, so long as such person (i) renders bona fide services that are not in connection with the offer and sale of the Company's securities in a capital-raising transaction, (ii) does not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Company's securities and (iii) can be covered as a consultant under the applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for registration of shares on a Form S-8 registration statement.
2.6.
Consultant
"" shall mean an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries who is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
2.7.
Covered Employee
"" shall mean a non-employee member of the Board.
2.8.
Director
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.6.
2.9.
Dividend Equivalents
"" shall mean any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary and any prospective employee conditioned upon, and effective not earlier than, such person becoming an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary.
2.10.
Employee
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
2.11.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean, with respect to Shares as of any date, (i) the closing price of the Shares as reported on the principal U.S. national securities exchange on which the Shares are listed and traded on such date, or, if there is no closing price on that date, then on the last preceding date on which such a closing price was reported; (ii) if the Shares are not listed on any U.S. national securities exchange but are quoted in an inter-dealer quotation system on a last sale basis, the final ask price of the Shares reported on the inter-dealer quotation system for such date, or, if there is no such sale on such date, then on the last preceding date on which a sale was reported; or (iii) if the Shares are neither listed on a U.S. national securities exchange nor quoted on an inter-dealer quotation system on a last sale basis, the amount determined by the Committee to be the fair market value of the Shares as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion taking into account the requirements of Section 409A. The Fair Market Value of any property other than Shares shall mean the market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee.
2.12.
Fair Market Value
"" shall mean an Option which when granted is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.
2.13.
Incentive Stock Option
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5.
2.14.
Limitations
means a Participant's ability to exercise an Option by directing the Company to deduct from the Shares issuable upon exercise of his or her Option a number of Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the sum of the aggregate exercise price therefor plus the amount of the Participant's minimum tax withholding (if any), whereupon the Company shall issue to the Participant the net remaining number of Shares after such deductions.
2.15.
"Net Exercise"
 
"" shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such price or prices and during such period or periods as the Committee shall determine.
2.16.
Option
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
2.17.
Other Share-Based Award
"" shall mean an Employee, Director or Consultant who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan.
2.18.
Participant
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.2.
2.19.
Payee
"" shall mean any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units granted pursuant to Article 9.
2.20.
Performance Award
"" shall mean the period established by the Committee during which any performance goals specified by the Committee with respect to a Performance Award are to be measured.
2.21.
Performance Period
"" shall mean any grant pursuant to Article 9 of a unit valued by reference to a designated number of Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant upon achievement of such performance goals as the Committee shall establish.
2.22.
Performance Share
"" shall mean any grant pursuant to Article 9 of a unit valued by reference to a designated amount of cash or property other than Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant upon achievement of such performance goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish.
2.23.
Performance Unit
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.3.
2.24.
Permitted Assignee
"" shall mean, collectively, the Company's 2007 Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan and Nonemployee Director Equity Plan.
2.25.
Prior Plans
"" shall mean any Share issued with the restriction that the holder may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign such Share and with such other restrictions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
2.26.
Restricted Stock
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.27.
Restricted Stock Award
means an Award that is valued by reference to a Share, which value may be paid to the Participant in Shares or cash (or in combination thereof) as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion upon the satisfaction of vesting restrictions as the Committee may establish, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
2.28.
"Restricted Stock Unit"
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.29.
"Restricted Stock Unit Award"
 
"" shall mean the shares of common stock of the Company, par value $1.00 per share.
2.30.
Shares
"" shall mean the right granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 6.
2.31.
Stock Appreciation Right
"" shall mean any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if, at the relevant time each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain.
2.32.
Subsidiary
" shall mean Awards granted or Shares issued by the Company in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, in each case by a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines.
2.33.
"Substitute Awards
"" shall mean the period of time specified by the Committee during which vesting restrictions for an Award are applicable.
2.34.
Vesting Period
3. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
.
3.1.
Number of Shares
(a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.2, a total of 4,171,500 Shares shall be authorized for grant under the Plan, plus any Shares remaining available for grant under the Prior Plans on December 31, 2009, less one (1) Share of stock for every one (1) Share of stock that was subject to an option or stock appreciation right granted after December 31, 2009 under the Prior Plans and 1.75 Shares for every one (1) Share that was subject to an award other than an option or stock appreciation right granted after December 31, 2009 under the Prior Plans. Under the Plan, any Shares that are subject to Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as one (1) Share for every one (1) Share granted, and any Shares that are subject to Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as 1.75 Shares for every one (1) Share granted. After the effective date of the Plan (as provided in Section 13.13), no awards may be granted under any Prior Plan.
(b) If (i) any Shares subject to an Award are forfeited, an Award expires or an Award is settled for cash (in whole or in part), or (ii) after December 31, 2009 any Shares subject to an award under the Prior Plans are forfeited, or an award under the Prior Plans expires or is settled for cash (in whole or in part), the Shares subject to such Award or award under the Prior Plans shall, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration or cash settlement, again be available for Awards under the Plan, in accordance with Section 3.1(d) below. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the following Shares shall not be added to the Shares authorized for
 
grant under paragraph (a) of this Section: (i) Shares tendered by the Participant or withheld by the Company in payment of the purchase price of an Option or an option granted under the Prior Plans, or to satisfy any tax withholding obligation with respect to an Award or an award granted under the Prior Plans, and (ii) Shares subject to a Stock Appreciation Right or a stock appreciation right granted under the Prior Plans that are not issued in connection with its stock settlement on exercise thereof and (iii) Shares reacquired by the Company on the open market or otherwise using cash proceeds from the exercise of Options or options granted under the Prior Plans.
(c) Substitute Awards shall not reduce the Shares authorized for grant under the Plan or the applicable Limitations applicable to a Participant under Section 10.5, nor shall Shares subject to a Substitute Award again be available for Awards under the Plan to the extent of any forfeiture, expiration or cash settlement as provided in paragraph (b) above. Additionally, in the event that a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary, or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines, has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by stockholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such acquisition or combination) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the Shares authorized for grant under the Plan; provided that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination, and shall only be made to individuals who were not Employees or Directors prior to such acquisition or combination.
(d) Any Shares that again become available for grant pursuant to this Section shall be added back as (i) one (1) Share if such Shares were subject to Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan or options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Prior Plans, and (ii) as 1.75 Shares if such Shares were subject to Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan or awards other than options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Prior Plans.
. Any Shares issued hereunder may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the open market or otherwise. No fractional shares shall be issued under the Plan and the Committee shall determine the manner in which fractional share value shall be treated.
3.2.
Character of Shares
4. ELIGIBILITY AND ADMINISTRATION
. Any Employee, Director or Consultant shall be eligible to be selected as a Participant.
4.1.
Eligibility
 
.
4.2.
Administration
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan and subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as may from time to time be adopted by the Board, to: (i) select the Employees, Directors and Consultants to whom Awards may from time to time be granted hereunder; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant hereunder; (iii) determine the number of Shares (or dollar value) to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; (iv) determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder; (v) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash, Shares or other property; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award made under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant; (vii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award shall be canceled or suspended; (viii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement entered into under or in connection with the Plan, including any Award Agreement; (ix) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent that the Committee shall deem desirable to carry it into effect; (x) establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (xi) determine whether any Award, other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, will have Dividend Equivalents; and (xii) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.
(b) All expenses associated with the Plan shall be borne by the Company subject to such allocation to its Subsidiaries and operating units as it deems appropriate.
(c) Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons or entities, including the Company, any Participant, and any Subsidiary. A majority of the members of the Committee may determine its actions, including fixing the time and place of its meetings.
(d) To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, including Section 162(m) of the Code, or the rules and regulations of the principal U.S. national securities exchange on which the Shares are traded, the Committee may delegate (i) a committee of one or more directors of the Company any of the authority of the Committee under the Plan, including the right to grant, cancel or suspend Awards and (ii) to the extent permitted by law, one or more executive officers or a committee of executive officers the right to grant and determine the terms of Awards to Employees who are not directors or executive officers of the Company and the authority to take action on behalf of the Committee pursuant to the Plan to cancel or suspend Awards to Employees who are not directors or executive officers of the Company.
 
(e) Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by that person in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or proceeding to which that person may be a party or in which that person may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by that person in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by that person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against that person, provided that person shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before that person undertakes to handle and defend it on that person's own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
5. OPTIONS
. Options may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. Any Option shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Article and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall deem desirable.
5.1.
Grant of Options
. All Options shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan. The terms and conditions of Options need not be the same with respect to each Participant. Granting an Option pursuant to the Plan shall impose no obligation on the recipient to exercise such Option. Any individual who is granted an Option pursuant to this Article may hold more than one Option granted pursuant to the Plan at the same time.
5.2.
Award Agreements
. Other than in connection with Substitute Awards, the option price per each Share purchasable under any Option granted pursuant to this Article shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant of such Option; provided, however, that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time of the grant, owns stock representing more than 10% of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, the option price per share shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant. Other than pursuant to Section 12.2, the Committee shall not without the approval of the Company's stockholders (i) lower the option price per Share of an Option after it is granted, (ii) cancel an Option in exchange for cash or another Award (other than in connection with a Change in Control as defined in Section 11.3 or a Substitute Award), or (iii) take any other action with respect to an Option that would be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of the principal U.S. national securities exchange on which the Shares are traded.
5.3.
Option Price
 
. The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted, except in the event of death or disability; provided, however, that the term of the Option shall not exceed five (5) years from the date the Option is granted in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time of the grant, owns stock representing more than 10% of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Subsidiary.
5.4.
Option Term
.
5.5.
Exercise of Options
(a) Vested Options granted under the Plan shall be exercised by the Participant or by a Permitted Assignee thereof (or by the Participant's executors, administrators, guardian or legal representative, as may be provided in an Award Agreement) as to all or part of the Shares covered thereby, by giving notice of exercise to the Company or its designated agent, specifying the number of Shares to be purchased. The notice of exercise shall be in such form, made in such manner, and shall comply with such other requirements consistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee may prescribe from time to time.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, full payment of such purchase price shall be made at the time of exercise and shall be made (i) in cash or cash equivalents (including certified check or bank check or wire transfer of immediately available funds), (ii) by tendering previously acquired Shares (either actually or by attestation) valued at their then Fair Market Value, (iii) with the consent of the Committee, by delivery of other consideration having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the total purchase price, (iv) pursuant to a Net Exercise arrangement; that in such event, the Committee may exercise its discretion to limit the use of a Net Exercise, (v) through any other method specified in an Award Agreement (including same-day sales through a broker), or (vi) any combination of any of the foregoing. The notice of exercise, accompanied by such payment, shall be delivered to the Company at its principal business office or such other office as the Committee may from time to time direct, and shall be in such form, containing such further provisions consistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee may from time to time prescribe. In no event may any Option granted hereunder be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
provided, however,
The Committee may grant Incentive Stock Options to any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, subject to the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. Solely for purposes of determining whether Shares are available for the grant of Incentive Stock Options under the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be 3,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.2.
5.6.
Incentive Stock Options.
In the event a Participant who is an Employee ceases to be employed with the consent of the Committee or upon the Participant's death, retirement,
5.7.
Termination of Employment.
 
or disability, each of the Participant's outstanding Options shall be exercisable by the Participant (or the Participant's legal representative or designated beneficiary), as provided under the terms of the Award Agreement, at any time prior to an expiration date established by the Committee at the time of grant or as otherwise determined by the Committee (which may be the original expiration date of such Option or such earlier time as the Committee may establish), but in no event after its respective expiration date; provided that the Committee may provide for Options to be exercisable up to one year after the death or disability of a Participant even if this is beyond their expiration date. If the Participant ceases to be employed for any other reason, all of the Participant's then outstanding Options shall terminate immediately, except as otherwise determined by the Committee.
6. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
. The Committee may provide Stock Appreciation Rights (a) in tandem with all or part of any Option granted under the Plan or at any subsequent time during the term of such Option, (b) in tandem with all or part of any Award (other than an Option) granted under the Plan or at any subsequent time during the term of such Award, or (c) without regard to any Option or other Award in each case upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish in its sole discretion.
6.1.
Grant and Exercise
. Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as shall be determined from time to time by the Committee, including the following:
6.2.
Terms and Conditions
(a) Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the holder shall have the right to receive the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise (or such amount less than such Fair Market Value as the Committee shall so determine at any time during a specified period before the date of exercise) over (ii) the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(b) The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether payment on exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be made in cash, in whole Shares or other property, or any combination thereof.
(c) The terms and conditions of Stock Appreciation Rights need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
(d) The Committee may impose such other terms and conditions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right, as it shall deem appropriate. A Stock Appreciation Right shall (i) have a grant price per Share of not less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant or, if applicable, on the date of grant of an Option with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right granted in exchange for or in tandem with, but subsequent to, the Option (subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code) except in the case of Substitute Awards or in connection with an adjustment provided in Section 12.2, and (ii) have a term not greater than ten (10) years.
 
(e) Without the approval of the Company's stockholders, other than pursuant to Section 12.2, the Committee shall not (i) reduce the grant price of any Stock Appreciation Right after the date of grant, (ii) cancel any Stock Appreciation Right in exchange for cash or another Award (other than in connection with a Change in Control as defined in Section 11.3 or a Substitute Award), or (iii) take any other action with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right that would be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of the principal U.S. national securities exchange on which the Shares are traded.
In the event a Participant who is an Employee ceases to be employed with the consent of the Committee or upon the Participant's death, retirement, or disability, each of the Participant's outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable by the Participant (or the Participant's legal representative or designated beneficiary), as provided by the terms of the Award Agreement, at any time prior to an expiration date established by the Committee at the time of grant or as otherwise determined by the Committee (which may be the original expiration date of such Stock Appreciation Right or such earlier time as the Committee may establish), but in no event after its respective expiration date; provided that the Committee may provide for the Stock Appreciation Right to be exercised up to one year after the death or disability of a Participant even if this is beyond its expiration date. If the Participant ceases to be employed for any other reason, all of the Participant's then outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate immediately, except as otherwise determined by the Committee.
6.3.
Termination of Employment.
7. RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
. Awards of Restricted Stock and of Restricted Stock Units may be issued hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan (a "Restricted Stock Award" or "Restricted Stock Unit Award" respectively), and such Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall also be available as a form of payment of Performance Awards and other earned cash-based incentive compensation. The Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether any consideration (other than services) is to be received by the Company or any Subsidiary as a condition precedent to the issuance of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
7.1.
Grants
. The terms of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan. The terms of Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant.
7.2.
Award Agreements
Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, beginning on the date of grant of the Restricted Stock Award and subject to execution of the Award Agreement, the Participant shall become a stockholder of the Company with respect to all Shares subject to the Award Agreement and shall have all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive distributions made with respect to such Shares. A Participant receiving a
7.3.
Rights of Holders of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
Restricted Stock Unit Award shall have only those rights specifically provided for by the Award Agreement, provided that in no event shall such a participant possess voting rights with respect to such Award.
Except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, any Shares or any other property (other than cash) distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Stock Award or the number of Shares covered by a Restricted Stock Unit Award as to which the restrictions have not yet lapsed shall be subject to the same restrictions as such Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, cash dividends with respect to any Restricted Stock Award and any other property (other than cash) distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Stock Award or the number of Shares covered by a Restricted Stock Unit Award that vests based on achievement of performance goals shall be accumulated, shall be subject to restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such cash, Shares or other property has been distributed and shall be paid at the time such restrictions and risk of forfeiture lapse.
Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall have a Vesting Period of not less than (i) three (3) years from date of grant (but permitting pro rata vesting over such time) if subject only to continued service with the Company or a Subsidiary and (ii) one (1) year from date of grant if subject to the achievement of performance objectives, subject in either case to accelerated vesting in the Committee's discretion in the event of the death, disability or retirement of the Participant or a Change in Control (as defined in Section 11.3). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the restrictions in the preceding sentence shall not be applicable to grants of up to 5% of the number of Shares available for Awards under Section 3.1(a) on the effective date of the Plan. The Committee may, in its sole discretion waive the vesting restrictions and any other conditions set forth in any Award Agreement under such terms and conditions as the Committee shall deem appropriate, subject to (i) the minimum Vesting Period requirements in the prior sentence and (ii) the limitations imposed under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder in the case of a Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) except as otherwise determined by the Committee to be appropriate under the circumstances.
7.4.
Minimum Vesting Period.
.
7.5.
Termination of Employment
(a) Subject to Section 7.4, in the event a Participant who is an Employee ceases to be employed with the consent of the Committee or upon the Participant's death, retirement, or disability before the end of a Vesting Period subject only to continued service with the Company or a Subsidiary, the number of Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award that shall vest shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, less than a number equal to the product of (i) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months elapsed after the date of the Award to the Participant to the date of termination of the Participant and the denominator of which
 
is the number of months in the Vesting Period, multiplied by (ii) the number of Shares subject to the Award.
(b) Subject to Section 7.4, in the event a Participant who is an Employee ceases to be employed with the consent of the Committee or upon the Participant's death, retirement, or disability before the end of the Vesting Period and the Participant has received an award subject to the achievement of performance objectives, the Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award shall, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, vest upon the achievement of the performance objectives with respect to such number of those Shares subject to the Award as shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, less than a number equal to the product of (i) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months elapsed after the date of Award to the Participant to the date of termination of the Participant and the denominator of which is the number of months elapsed after the date of the Award to the Participant to the date of achievement of the Performance/Time Goal, multiplied by (ii) the number of Shares subject to the Award.
(c) In the event the Participant ceases to be employed for any other reason, all Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award which are still unvested shall be forfeited.
Any Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Board may deem appropriate, including book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company. Such certificate or certificates shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
7.6.
Issuance of Shares.
8. OTHER SHARE-BASED AWARDS
. Other Awards of Shares and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares or other property ("Other Share-Based Awards"), including deferred stock units, may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. Other Share-Based Awards shall also be available as a form of payment of other Awards granted under the Plan and other earned cash-based compensation.
8.1.
Grants
. The terms of Other Share-Based Awards granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan. The terms of such Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, any property (other than cash) distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to the number of Shares covered by an Other Share-Based Award that vests based on achievement of
8.2.
Award Agreements
 
performance goals shall be subject to restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Shares covered by an Other Share-Based Award with respect to which such cash, Shares or other property has been distributed.
Other Share-Based Awards, except for Awards made pursuant to Section 8.6, shall have a Vesting Period of not less than (i) three (3) years from date of grant (but permitting pro rata vesting over such time) if subject only to continued service with the Company or a Subsidiary and (ii) one (1) year from date of grant if subject to the achievement of performance objectives, subject in either case to accelerated vesting in the Committee's discretion in the event of the death, disability or retirement of the Participant or a Change in Control (as defined in Section 11.3). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the restrictions in the preceding sentence shall not be applicable to grants of up to 5% of the number of Shares available for Awards under Section 3.1(a) on the effective date of the Plan.The Committee may, in its sole discretion waive the vesting restrictions and any other conditions set forth in any Award Agreement under such terms and conditions as the Committee shall deem appropriate, subject to (i) the minimum Vesting Period requirements in the prior sentence and (ii) the limitations imposed under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder in the case of an Other Share-Based Award intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) except as otherwise determined by the Committee to be appropriate under the circumstances.
8.3.
Minimum Vesting Period.
.
8.4.
Termination Of Employment
(a) Subject to Section 8.3, in the event a Participant who is an Employee ceases to be employed with the consent of the Committee or upon the Participant's death, retirement, or disability before the end of a Vesting Period subject only to continued service with the Company or a Subsidiary, the number of Shares subject to the Other Share-Based Award that shall vest shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, less than a number equal to the product of (i) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months elapsed after the date of the Other Share-Based Award to the Participant to the date of termination and the denominator of which is the number of months in the Vesting Period, multiplied by (ii) the number of Shares subject to the Award.
(b) Subject to Section 8.3, in the event a Participant who is an Employee ceases to be employed with the consent of the Committee or upon the Participant's death, retirement, or disability before the end of the Vesting Period and the Participant has received an award subject to the achievement of performance objectives, the Other Share-Based Award shall, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, vest upon the achievement of the performance objectives with respect to such number of those Shares subject to the Award as shall be determined by the Committee, but in no event, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, less than a number equal to the product of (i) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed months elapsed after the date of the Award to the Participant to the date of termination of the Participant and the denominator of which is the number of months elapsed after
 
the date of the Award to the Participant to the date of achievement of the Performance/Time Goal, multiplied by (ii) the number of Shares subject to the Award.
(c) In the event the Participant ceases to be employed for any other reason, all Shares subject to the Award which are still unvested shall be forfeited.
.Except as may be provided in an Award Agreement, Other Share-Based Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, other property, or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee. Other Share-Based Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments or, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
8.5.
Payment
. Directors shall, if determined by the Board, receive Other Share-Based Awards in the form of deferred stock units in lieu of all or a portion of their annual retainer. In addition, Directors may elect to receive Other Share-Based Awards in the form of deferred stock units in lieu of all or a portion of their annual and committee retainers and annual meeting fees, provided that such election is made in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The Committee shall, in its absolute discretion, establish such rules and procedures as it deems appropriate for such elections and for the payment of the deferred stock units.
8.6.
Deferral of Director Fees
9. PERFORMANCE AWARDS
. Performance Awards in the form of Performance Shares or Performance Units, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, may be granted hereunder to Participants, for no consideration or for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The performance goals to be achieved for each Performance Period shall be conclusively determined by the Committee and may be based upon the criteria set forth in Section 10.2.
9.1.
Grants
The terms of any Performance Award granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement (or, if applicable, in a resolution duly adopted by the Committee) which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan, including whether such Awards shall have Dividend Equivalents. The terms of Performance Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant.
9.2.
Award Agreements.
The performance criteria to be achieved during any Performance Period and the length of the Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee upon the grant of each Performance Award; provided, however, that a Performance Period shall not be shorter than one year unless the Performance Award is not payable in Shares. The amount of the Award to be distributed shall be conclusively determined by the Committee.
9.3.
Terms and Conditions.
Except as provided in Article 11 or as may be provided in an Award Agreement, Performance Awards will be distributed only after the end of the relevant Performance Period. Performance Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, other property, or any
9.4.
Payment.
 
combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee. Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Performance Period or, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
10. CODE SECTION 162(m) PROVISIONS
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if the Committee determines at the time a Restricted Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit Award, a Performance Award or an Other Share-Based Award is granted to a Participant who is, or is likely to be, as of the end of the tax year in which the Company would claim a tax deduction in connection with such Award, a Covered Employee, then the Committee may provide that this Article 10 is applicable to such Award.
10.1.
Covered Employees
If the Committee determines that a Restricted Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit, a Performance Award or an Other Share-Based Award is intended to be subject to this Article 10, the lapsing of restrictions thereon and the distribution of cash, Shares or other property pursuant thereto, as applicable, shall be subject to the achievement of one or more objective performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on the attainment of specified levels of one or any combination of the following: revenue; net income (or loss) per share; pre-tax profits; net earnings (or loss); net income (or loss); operating income or loss (before or after taxes); cash flow; cash flow per share (before or after dividends); free cash flow; earnings or losses (including earnings or losses before taxes, before interest and taxes, or before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); total stockholder return relative to assets; total stockholder return relative to peers; customer satisfaction; customer growth; employee satisfaction; gross margin; revenue growth; stock price; market share; sales; earnings (or loss) per share; return on equity; cost reductions; economic value added; product revenue growth; pre- or after-tax income or loss (before or after allocation of corporate overhead and bonus); return on assets or net assets; attainment of strategic and operational initiatives; appreciation in and/or maintenance of the price of the Shares or any other publicly-traded securities of the Company; gross profits; comparisons with various stock market indices; return on capital (including return on total capital or return on invested capital); cash flow return on investment; return on investment, improvement in or attainment of expense levels or working capital levels, including cash, inventory and accounts receivable; operating margin; year-end cash; cash margin; debt reduction; stockholders equity; operating efficiencies; research and development achievements; manufacturing achievements (including obtaining particular yields from manufacturing runs and other measurable objectives related to process development activities); strategic partnerships or transactions (including in-licensing and out-licensing of intellectual property; establishing relationships with commercial entities with respect to the marketing, distribution and sale of the Company's products (including with group purchasing organizations, distributors and other vendors)); supply chain achievements (including establishing relationships with manufacturers or suppliers of component materials and manufacturers of the Company's products); co-development, co-marketing, profit sharing, joint venture or other similar arrangements; financial ratios (including those measuring liquidity, activity, profitability or leverage); cost of capital; financing and other capital raising
10.2.
Performance Criteria.
 
transactions (including sales of the Company's equity or debt securities; factoring transactions; sales or licenses of the Company's assets, including its intellectual property, whether in a particular jurisdiction or territory or globally; or through partnering transactions); and implementation, completion or attainment of measurable objectives with respect to research, development, manufacturing, commercialization, products or projects, production volume levels, acquisitions and divestitures, factoring transactions and recruiting and maintaining personnel. Such performance goals also may be based solely by reference to the Company's performance or the performance of a Subsidiary, division, business segment or business unit of the Company, or based upon the relative performance of other companies or upon comparisons of any of the indicators of performance relative to other companies. The Committee may also exclude charges related to an event or occurrence which the Committee determines should appropriately be excluded, including (i) restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and other unusual or non-recurring charges, (ii) an event either not directly related to the operations of the Company or not within the reasonable control of the Company's management, or (iii) the cumulative effects of tax or accounting changes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Such performance goals shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder.
. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan (other than Article 11), with respect to any Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Share-Based Award that is subject to this Section 10, the Committee may adjust downwards, but not upwards, the amount payable pursuant to such Award, and the Committee may not waive the achievement of the applicable performance goals except in the case of the death or disability of the Participant or as otherwise determined by the Committee in special circumstances.
10.3.
Adjustments
. The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Awards subject to this Article as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Awards satisfy all requirements for "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
10.4.
Restrictions
. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.2, no Participant may (i) be granted Options or Stock Appreciation Rights during any 36-month period with respect to more than 1,200,000 Shares for each type of award and (ii) earn more than 1,200,000 Shares with respect to Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards, Performance Awards and/or Other Share-Based Awards in any 36-month period for each type of award that are intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) and are denominated in Shares (collectively, the "Limitations"). In addition to the foregoing, the maximum dollar value that may be earned by any Participant for each 12 months in a Performance Period with respect to Performance Awards that are intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) and are denominated in cash is $5,000,000. If an Award is cancelled, the cancelled Award shall continue to be counted toward the applicable Limitation (or, if denominated in cash, toward the dollar amount in the preceding sentence).
10.5.
Limitations on Grants to Individual Participants
 
11. CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS
Award Agreements may provide that in the event of a Change in Control of the Company (as defined in Section 11.3): (i) Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the date of the Change in Control shall be cancelled and terminated without payment therefor if the Fair Market Value of one Share as of the date of the Change in Control is equal to or less than the per Share Option exercise price or Stock Appreciation Right grant price, and (ii) all Performance Awards shall be considered to be earned and payable (either in full or pro rata based on the portion of Performance Period completed as of the date of the Change in Control), and any limitations or other restrictions shall lapse and such Performance Awards shall be immediately settled or distributed.
11.1.
Impact on Certain Awards.
11.2.
Assumption or Substitution of Certain Awards.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company in which the successor company assumes or substitutes for an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Other Share-Based Award (or in which the Company is the ultimate parent corporation and continues the Award), if a Participant's employment with such successor company (or the Company) or a subsidiary thereof terminates within 24 months following such Change in Control (or such other period set forth in the Award Agreement, including prior thereto if applicable) and under the circumstances specified in the Award Agreement: (i) Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the date of such termination of employment will immediately vest, become fully exercisable, and may thereafter be exercised for 24 months (or the period of time set forth in the Award Agreement), (ii) the restrictions, limitations and other conditions applicable to Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units outstanding as of the date of such termination of employment shall lapse and the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested, and (iii) the restrictions, limitations and other conditions applicable to any Other Share-Based Awards or any other Awards shall lapse, and such Other Share-Based Awards or such other Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant. For the purposes of this Section 11.2, an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Other Share-Based Award shall be considered assumed or substituted for, if following the Change in Control the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Other Share-Based Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) received in the transaction constituting a Change in Control by holders of Shares for each Share held on the effective date of such transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the transaction constituting a Change in Control is not solely common
 
stock of the successor company, the Committee may, with the consent of the successor company, provide that the consideration to be received upon the exercise or vesting of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Other Share-Based Award, for each Share subject thereto, will be solely common stock of the successor company substantially equal in fair market value to the per Share consideration received by holders of Shares in the transaction constituting a Change in Control. The determination of such substantial equality of value of consideration shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion and its determination shall be conclusive and binding.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company to the extent the successor company does not assume or substitute for an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award or Other Share-Based Award (or in which the Company is the ultimate parent corporation and does not continue the Award), then immediately prior to the Change in Control: (i) those Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the date of the Change in Control that are not assumed or substituted for (or continued) shall immediately vest and become fully exercisable, (ii) restrictions, limitations and other conditions applicable to Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units that are not assumed or substituted for (or continued) shall lapse and the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested, and (iii) the restrictions, other limitations and other conditions applicable to any Other Share-Based Awards or any other Awards that are not assumed or substituted for (or continued) shall lapse, and such Other Share-Based Awards or such other Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant.
(c) The Committee, in its discretion, may determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, each Option and Stock Appreciation Right outstanding shall terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the Participant, and/or that each Participant shall receive, with respect to each Share subject to such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of such Share immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control over the exercise price per Share of such Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right; such amount to be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of stock or property (including the stock or property, if any, payable in the transaction) or in a combination thereof, as the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine.
For purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, Change in Control means the occurrence of any one of the following events:
11.3.
Change in Control.
(a) During any twenty-four (24) month period, individuals who, as of the beginning of such period, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for
 
any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the beginning of such period whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director; , , that no individual initially elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
provided
however
(b) Any "person" (as such term is defined in the Exchange Act and as used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); , , that the event described in this paragraph (b) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (i) by the Company or any Subsidiary, (ii) by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (iii) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (iv) pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction, as defined in paragraph (c), or (v) by any person of Voting Securities from the Company, if a majority of the Incumbent Board approves in advance the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 25% or more of Company Voting Securities by such person;
provided
however
(c) The consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders, whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (i) more than 60% of the total voting power of (A) the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (the "Surviving Corporation"), or (B) if applicable, the ultimate parent corporation that directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Surviving Corporation (the "Parent Corporation"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Business Combination (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Business Combination), and such voting power among the holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities among the holders thereof immediately prior to the Business Combination, (ii) no person (other than any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Surviving Corporation or the Parent Corporation), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 25% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent
 
Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) following the consummation of the Business Combination were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (i), (ii) and (iii) above shall be deemed to be a "NonQualifying Transaction"); or
-
(d) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or the consummation of a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 25% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then occur.
provided
that
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Award that is characterized as "non-qualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, an event shall not be considered to be a Change in Control under the Plan for purposes of any payment in respect of such Award unless such event is also a "change in ownership," a "change in effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
12. GENERALLY APPLICABLE PROVISIONS
. The Board may, from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan as it shall deem advisable, subject to any requirement for stockholder approval imposed by applicable law, including the rules and regulations of the principal U.S. national securities exchange on which the Shares are traded; provided that the Board may not amend the Plan in any manner that would result in noncompliance with Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act; and further provided that the Board may not, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, amend the Plan to (a) materially increase the number of Shares that may be the subject of Awards under the Plan (except for adjustments pursuant to Section 12.2), (b) expand the types of awards available under the Plan, (c) materially expand the class of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, (d) amend Section 5.3 or Section 6.2(e) to eliminate the requirements relating to minimum exercise price, minimum grant price and stockholder approval, (e) increase the maximum permissible term of any Option specified by Section 5.4 or the maximum permissible term of a Stock Appreciation Right specified by Section 6.2(d), or (f) increase the Limitations. The Board may not, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, cancel an Option or Stock Appreciation Right in exchange for cash or take any action with respect to an Option or Stock Appreciation Right
12.1.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
that would be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded, including a reduction of the exercise price of an Option or the grant price of a Stock Appreciation Right or the exchange of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right for cash or another Award. In addition, no amendments to, or termination of, the Plan shall impair the rights of a Participant in any material respect under any Award previously granted without such Participant's consent.
. In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, dividend or distribution (whether in cash, shares or other property, other than a regular cash dividend), stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off or similar transaction or other change in corporate structure affecting the Shares or the value thereof, such adjustments and other substitutions shall be made to the Plan and to Awards as the Committee deems equitable or appropriate taking into consideration the accounting and tax consequences, including such adjustments in the aggregate number, class and kind of securities that may be delivered under the Plan, the Limitations, the maximum number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options and, in the aggregate or to any Participant, in the number, class, kind and option or exercise price of securities subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan (including, if the Committee deems appropriate, the substitution of similar options to purchase the shares of, or other awards denominated in the shares of, another company) as the Committee may determine to be appropriate; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.
12.2.
Adjustments
. Except as provided below, no Award and no Shares that have not been issued or as to which any applicable restriction, performance or deferral period has not lapsed, may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and such Award may be exercised during the life of the Participant only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. To the extent and under such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, a Participant may assign or transfer an Award (each transferee thereof, a "Permitted Assignee") to (i) the Participant's spouse, children or grandchildren (including any adopted and step children or grandchildren), parents, grandparents or siblings, (ii) to a trust for the benefit of one or more of the Participant or the persons referred to in clause (i), (iii) to a partnership, limited liability company or corporation in which the Participant or the persons referred to in clause (i) are the only partners, members or shareholders or (iv) for charitable donations; provided that such Permitted Assignee shall be bound by and subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreement relating to the transferred Award and shall execute an agreement satisfactory to the Company evidencing such obligations; and provided further that such Participant shall remain bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Company shall cooperate with any Permitted Assignee and the Company's transfer agent in effectuating any transfer permitted under this Section.
12.3.
Transferability of Awards
.
12.4.
Termination of Employment or Services
(a) The Committee shall determine and set forth in each Award Agreement whether any Awards granted in such Award Agreement will continue to be
 
exercisable, continue to vest or be earned and the terms of such exercise, vesting or earning, on and after the date that a Participant ceases to be employed by or to provide services to the Company or any Subsidiary (including as a Director), whether by reason of death, disability, voluntary or involuntary termination of employment or services, or otherwise. The date of termination of a Participant's employment or services will be determined by the Committee, which determination will be final.
(b) The Committee shall be entitled to make such rules, regulations and determinations as it deems appropriate under the Plan with respect to any suspension of employment or leave of absence from the Company or a Subsidiary granted to a Participant. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled to determine (i) whether or not any such suspension or leave of absence shall be treated as if the Participant ceased to be an Employee and (ii) the impact, if any, of any such suspension or leave of absence on Awards under the Plan. In the event a Participant transfers employment from the Company to a Subsidiary or from a Subsidiary to the Company, such Participant shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee for purposes of the Plan.
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of the Participant's death before the Participant receives any or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Committee during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
12.5.
Beneficiary Designation.
; . The Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures pursuant to which the payment of any Award may be deferred consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and any Award Agreement, the recipient of an Award other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right may, if so determined by the Committee, be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, amounts equivalent to cash, stock or other property dividends on Shares ("Dividend Equivalents") with respect to the number of Shares covered by the Award, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee may provide that the Dividend Equivalents (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested and may provide that the Dividend Equivalents are subject to the same vesting or performance conditions as the underlying Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Dividend Equivalents distributed in connection with an Award that vests based on the achievement of performance goals shall be subject to restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Award with respect to which such cash, stock or other property has been distributed.
12.6.
Deferral
Dividend Equivalents
 
13. MISCELLANEOUS
. Each Award Agreement shall either be (a) in writing in a form approved by the Committee and executed by the Company by an officer duly authorized to act on its behalf, or (b) an electronic notice in a form approved by the Committee and recorded by the Company (or its designee) in an electronic recordkeeping system used for the purpose of tracking one or more types of Awards as the Committee may provide; in each case and if required by the Committee, the Award Agreement shall be executed or otherwise electronically accepted by the recipient of the Award in such form and manner as the Committee may require. The Committee may authorize any officer of the Company to execute any or all Award Agreements on behalf of the Company. The Award Agreement shall set forth the material terms and conditions of the Award as established by the Committee consistent with the provisions of the Plan.
13.1.
Award Agreements
. The Company shall have the right to make all payments or distributions pursuant to the Plan to a Participant (or a Permitted Assignee thereof) (any such person, a "Payee") net of any applicable federal, state and local taxes required to be paid or withheld as a result of (a) the grant of any Award, (b) the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, (c) the delivery of Shares or cash, (d) the lapse of any restrictions in connection with any Award or (e) any other event occurring pursuant to the Plan. The Company or any Subsidiary shall have the right to withhold from wages or other amounts otherwise payable to such Payee such withholding taxes as may be required by law, or to otherwise require the Payee to pay such withholding taxes. If the Payee shall fail to make such tax payments as are required, the Company or its Subsidiaries shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to such Payee or to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations. The Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures for election by Participants to satisfy such obligation for the payment of such taxes by tendering previously acquired Shares (either actually or by attestation, valued at their then Fair Market Value), or by directing the Company to retain Shares (up to the Participant's minimum required tax withholding rate or such other rate that will not cause an adverse accounting consequence or cost) otherwise deliverable in connection with the Award.
13.2.
Tax Withholding
. Nothing in the Plan nor the grant of an Award hereunder shall confer upon any Employee, Director or Consultant the right to continue in the employment or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or affect any right that the Company or any Subsidiary may have to terminate the employment or service of (or to demote or to exclude from future Awards under the Plan) any such Employee, Director or Consultant at any time for any reason. Except as specifically provided by the Committee, the Company shall not be liable for the loss of existing or potential profit from an Award granted in the event of termination of an employment or other relationship. No Employee, Director or Consultant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Employees, Directors or Consultants under the Plan.
13.3.
Right of Discharge Reserved; Claims to Awards
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the terms of Substitute Awards may vary from the terms set forth in the Plan to the extent the Committee deems appropriate to conform, in whole or in part, to the provisions of the awards in substitution for which they are granted.
13.4.
Substitute Awards.
In the event that the employment of a Participant holding any unexercised Option or Stock Appreciation Right, any unearned Performance Award, any unvested or unearned shares of Restricted Stock, any unearned or unvested Restricted Stock Units or any unearned or unvested Other Share-Based Awards shall terminate with the consent of the Committee or by reason of retirement or disability, the rights of such Participant to any such Award shall be subject to the conditions that until any such Option or Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, or any such Performance Award, share of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Share-Based Award is vested or earned, the Participant shall (a) not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity as advisor, principal, agent, partner, officer, director, employee, member of any association or otherwise, in any business or activity which is at the time competitive with any business or activity conducted by the Company (b) not personally, or in conjunction with others, solicit or recruit current employees of Whirlpool or its subsidiaries to leave employment; (c) not in any way disparage the Company, its products and processes or any of its employees or vendors or customers; (d) protect the confidential information of the Company and its trade secrets; and (e) be available, unless the Participant shall have died, at reasonable times for consultations (which shall not require substantial time or effort) at the request of the Company's management with respect to phases of the business with which the Participant was actively connected during the Participant's employment, but such consultations shall not (except in the case of a Participant whose active service was outside of the United States) be required to be performed at any place or places outside of the United States of America or during usual vacation periods or periods of illness or other incapacity. In the event that the above conditions are not fulfilled, the Participant shall forfeit all rights to any unexercised Option or Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Award, shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Share-Based Awards held as on the date of the breach of condition. In addition, any Participant may be required to repay the Company an Award, if (i) the Participant is terminated by or otherwise leaves employment with the Company within two years following the vesting date of the Award and such termination of employment arises out, is due to, or is in any way connected with any misconduct or violation of Company, (ii) the Participant becomes employed with a competitor within the two year period following termination, or for any other reason considered by the Committee in its sole discretion to be detrimental to the Company or its interests. Any determination by the Board of Directors of the Company which shall act upon the recommendation of the Chairman, that the Participant is, or has, engaged in such activity or breached an obligation to the Company as aforesaid shall be conclusive.
13.5.
Conditions on Awards.
. All certificates for Shares delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award shall be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Shares are then listed, and any applicable federal or state securities law, and the Committee may cause a
13.6.
Stop Transfer Orders
 
legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
. All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the Company or any Subsidiary, division or business unit of the Company. Any income or gain realized pursuant to Awards under the Plan constitutes a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be taken into account, to the extent permissible under applicable law, as compensation for purposes of any of the employee benefit plans of the Company or any Subsidiary except as may be determined by the Committee or by the Board or board of directors of the applicable Subsidiary.
13.7.
Nature of Payments
. Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Board from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
13.8.
Other Plans
. The provisions of the Plan shall be deemed severable. If any provision of the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part by a court of competent jurisdiction or by reason of change in a law or regulation, such provision shall (a) be deemed limited to the extent that such court of competent jurisdiction deems it lawful, valid and/or enforceable and as so limited shall remain in full force and effect, and (b) not affect any other provision of the Plan or part thereof, each of which shall remain in full force and effect. If the making of any payment or the provision of any other benefit required under the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent any other payment or benefit from being made or provided under the Plan, and if the making of any payment in full or the provision of any other benefit required under the Plan in full would be unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable, then such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent such payment or benefit from being made or provided in part, to the extent that it would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable, and the maximum payment or benefit that would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable shall be made or provided under the Plan.
13.9.
Severability
. As used in the Plan, the words "" and "," and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words "."
13.10.
Construction
include
including
without limitation
The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant by the Company, nothing contained herein shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver the Shares or payments in lieu of or with respect to Awards hereunder; provided, however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.
13.11.
Unfunded Status of the Plan.
 
. The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken thereunder, to the extent not otherwise governed by the Code or the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws, and construed accordingly. Any suit, action or proceeding with respect to the Plan or any Award Agreement, or any judgment entered by any court of competent jurisdiction in respect of any thereof, shall be resolved only in the courts of the State of Delaware or the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and the appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals in such courts. In that context, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company and each Participant shall irrevocably and unconditionally (a) submit in any proceeding relating to the Plan or any Award Agreement, or for the recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof (a ""), to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware, the court of the United States of America for the District of Delaware, and appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals from any of the foregoing, and agree that all claims in respect of any such Proceeding shall be heard and determined in such Delaware State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court, (b) consent that any such Proceeding may and shall be brought in such courts and waives any objection that the Company and each Participant may now or thereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any such Proceeding in any such court or that such Proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agree not to plead or claim the same, (c) waive all right to trial by jury in any Proceeding (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to the Plan or any Award Agreement, (d) agree that service of process in any such Proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy of such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to such party, in the case of a Participant, at the Participant's address shown in the books and records of the Company or, in the case of the Company, at the Company's principal offices, attention General Counsel, and (e) agree that nothing in the Plan shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other manner permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware.
13.12.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
Proceeding
. The Plan shall be effective on the date of the approval of the Plan by the holders of the shares entitled to vote at a duly constituted meeting of the stockholders of the Company. The Plan shall be null and void and of no effect if the foregoing condition is not fulfilled and in such event each Award shall, notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, be null and void and of no effect. Awards may be granted under the Plan at any time and from time to time on or prior to the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan, on which date the Plan will expire except as to Awards then outstanding under the Plan. Such outstanding Awards shall remain in effect until they have been exercised or terminated, or have expired.
13.13.
Effective Date of Plan; Termination of Plan
. Awards may be granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed or providing services outside the United States, or both, on such terms and conditions different from those applicable to Awards to Employees or Consultants providing services in the United States as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable in order to recognize differences in local law or tax policy. The Committee also may impose conditions on the exercise or vesting of Awards in order to
13.14.
Foreign Employees and Consultants
 
minimize the Company's obligation with respect to tax equalization for Employees or Consultants on assignments outside their home country.
This Plan is intended to comply and shall be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an Award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, except as otherwise determined by the Committee. Any provision of this Plan that would cause the grant of an Award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued under Section 409A of the Code.
13.15.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
. Each Award shall be subject to the requirement that if at any time the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration, or qualification of such Award, or any Shares or other property subject thereto, upon any securities exchange or under any foreign, federal or state securities or other law or regulation, or the consent or approval of any governmental body or the taking of any other action to comply with or otherwise with respect to any such law or regulation, is necessary or desirable as a condition to or in connection with the granting of such Award or the issue, delivery or purchase of Shares or other property thereunder, no such Award may be exercised or paid in Shares or other property unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or other action shall have been effected or obtained, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. The holder of the Award will supply the Company with such certificates, representations and information as the Company shall request and shall otherwise cooperate with the Company in effecting or obtaining such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or other action. In the case of persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the Committee may at any time impose any limitations upon the exercise, delivery or payment of any Award which, in the discretion of the Committee, are necessary or desirable in order to comply with Section 16 and the rules and regulations thereunder. If the Company, as part of an offering of securities or otherwise, finds it desirable or necessary because of foreign, federal or state legal or regulatory requirements to suspend the period during which Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised, the Committee may, in its discretion and without the holders' consent, so suspend such period on not less than 15 days prior written notice to the holders thereof.
13.16.
Listing, Registration and Legal Compliance
. The captions in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and are not intended to narrow, limit or affect the substance or interpretation of the provisions contained herein.
13.17.
Captions
 

Exhibit 10.2
Awarded To:
Award Date:
Number of Shares:
Price Per Share:
1. Whirlpool Corporation (the "Company") hereby awards to you, pursuant to the Company's Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan, (the "Plan"), the right and option (the "Option") to purchase, at the above-stated price, upon and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan, all or any part of the shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock") above stated. This Option is a non-statutory stock option and is not intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2. Your Option may be exercised only by written notice to the office of the Corporate Secretary of the Company, 2000 M-63N, Benton Harbor, Michigan 49022-2692, accompanied by payment in full of the shares you so elect to purchase in the manner provided in the Plan.
3. Your Option may be exercised at any time subsequent to the above-stated grant date once the six-month holding period described below is met. Your Option shall, to the extent not theretofore terminated or exercised, expire and become void at the earlier of (a) the tenth anniversary of the grant date, (b) the fifth anniversary of the date on which you cease to serve as a Director of the Company or (c) in the event you die before you exercise all or any part of your Option, the first anniversary of the date of your death (regardless of the expiration date). To the extent required to comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, your Option may not be exercised for the six-month period immediately following the grant date unless you die or become disabled during such period.
4. The Option herein granted shall be exercisable during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative, and in the event of your death then thereafter only by your beneficiary under the Plan, and in any event only in accordance with and subject to the provisions and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. The Option shall not be transferable by you otherwise than by will or, if you die intestate, by the laws of descent and distribution, and any attempted transfer or other disposition thereof by you shall be void and shall nullify the Option.
5. This agreement is subject to all terms and conditions of, and is intended to conform in all respects with, the Plan, as amended, a copy of which is being provided to you. Inconsistencies between this agreement and the Plan shall be resolved in accordance with the terms of the Plan. By executing and returning the enclosed copy of this agreement you acknowledge that you have read the Plan and agree to be bound by its terms. All definitions stated in the Plan shall be fully applicable to this option grant.
6. Please acknowledge receipt of this agreement at the bottom of the duplicate copy herewith enclosed and return the same within 30 days from the date hereof to the office of the Corporate Secretary of the Company, Administrative Center, 2000 M-63N, Benton Harbor, Michigan 49022-2692.
 
 
 
I hereby acknowledge receipt of this Option and understand that such Option is governed by the terms and conditions of the Omnibus Stock and Incentive Plan.
 


