FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20100720063044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 20, 2010, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the second quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
 Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that second-quarter net earnings rose 163 percent to $205 million, or $2.64 per diluted share, compared to $78 million, or $1.04 per diluted share reported during the same period last year. Second-quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., July 20, 2010
1
totaled $2.82 compared to $0.94 in the prior year. Sales of $4.5 billion increased 9 percent from the $4.2 billion reported in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, the company's second-quarter sales increased approximately 6 percent.
Second-quarter operating profit totaled $331 million compared with $134 million in the prior year. Results were favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives, global unit volume growth and increased monetization of certain tax credits. These favorable factors were partially offset by higher material and oil-related costs and lower product price/mix. Second-quarter adjusted operating profit
2
totaled $298 million compared to $123 million in the prior year.
"We made strong progress towards our long-term value creation goals during the second quarter," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "Global unit volume growth combined with our ongoing productivity improvements enabled us to expand our operating margins and accelerate profitable growth."
During the six months ended June 30, 2010, the company reported cash flow from operations of $170 million. On a year-to-date basis, Whirlpool Corporation generated free cash flow
3
of $(88) million compared with $(197) million in the prior year.
 
SECOND-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
Second-quarter sales of $2.5 billion increased 6 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, second-quarter sales increased approximately 4 percent. North America unit shipments increased 7 percent. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)
4
increased 12 percent during the second quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $200 million compared to $120 million in the previous year. Second-quarter 2010 results included a $33 million curtailment gain related to post-retirement benefits. Second-quarter 2010 adjusted operating profit for the North America region totaled $167 million compared to $120 million in the prior year. The improvement was primarily the result of cost reduction, productivity initiatives and increased sales volume. These factors were partially offset by lower year-over-year product price/mix and higher material and oil-related costs.
Based on the current economic outlook, the company expects full-year 2010 U.S. industry unit shipments to increase approximately 5 percent compared to the previous expectation of a 3 percent to 5 percent increase.
Whirlpool Europe
Whirlpool Europe reported second-quarter sales of $739 million, a 6 percent decrease from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales were approximately equal to the prior year. Overall industry unit demand during the quarter increased approximately 1 percent compared with the prior year.
The region reported an operating profit of $20 million during the second quarter compared to an operating loss of $12 million in the previous year. The year-over-year improvement was primarily the result of cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
The company continues to expect full-year 2010 industry unit shipments to be approximately equal to 2009 levels.
 
Whirlpool Latin America
Whirlpool Latin America reported second-quarter net sales of $1.0 billion, an increase of 24 percent from the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 13 percent.
Operating profit totaled $165 million in the second quarter compared with $75 million in the prior year. The improvement in profitability is primarily related to cost reduction and productivity initiatives, increased monetization of certain tax credits and favorable price/mix. During the second quarter of 2009, the region recorded an $11 million benefit related to refundable energy surcharge credits which did not recur during 2010.
The company continues to anticipate full-year 2010 Brazilian appliance shipments will increase approximately 10 percent.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported second-quarter sales of $263 million, increasing 43 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased 34 percent. Operating profit during the quarter totaled $15 million, an increase of $4 million from the prior year. The year-over-year increase in operating profit was mainly attributable to higher unit volumes and was partially offset by higher material and oil-related costs.
The company continues to anticipate full-year 2010 industry unit shipments in Asia to increase 5 percent to 8 percent.
Outlook
For the full-year 2010, Whirlpool Corporation expects earnings per diluted share between $9.00 and $9.50 compared to its previous outlook of $8.00 to $8.50. For the full year, the company expects to generate free cash flow
3
of approximately $550 million to $650 million compared to its previous outlook of $500 million to $600 million. The company's earnings and free cash flow projections are based upon current economic forecasts and business plans.
 
"We have made strong progress toward our key operating priorities in 2010," said Fettig. "While we continue to expect general economic conditions to remain volatile, we have put actions in place to position the company to effectively manage through these challenges. With continued strong execution throughout our global operations, we expect to deliver a record year of earnings per share in this fragile global economic environment."
 
 
SECOND-QUARTER 2010 PRODUCT LAUNCHES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND-QUARTER 2010 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $17 billion in 2009, 67,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) product liability and product recall costs; (7) litigation and legal compliance risks; (8) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (9) inventory and other asset risk; (10) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (11) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (12) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (13) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual
 
property rights; (14) information technology system failures and data security breaches (15) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (16) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (17) the impact of labor relations; (18) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (19) changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before income taxes and other items (hereafter referred to as "adjusted earnings before tax"), adjusted diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders (hereafter referred to as "adjusted diluted earnings per share"), adjusted operating profit by segment (hereafter referred to as "adjusted segment operating profit"), and free cash flow. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist stockholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. Management believes adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment operating profit are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Management believes that free cash flow provides stockholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, diluted net earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders and cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the below reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors and stockholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
Adjusted Operating Profit, Adjusted Earnings Before Tax, Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the three-months ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the three-months ended June 30, 2009.
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Profit
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the three-months ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the three-months ended June 30, 2009.
 
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (2010 Outlook)
The reconciliation provided below reconciles projected 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share with projected 2010 diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure:
 
 
Free Cash Flow (Actual and 2010 Outlook)
As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operating activities after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses. The reconciliation provided below reconciles actual 2010 and 2009 and projected 2010 free cash flow with actual and projected cash (used in)/provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
 


