FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20100202063135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2010, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the fourth-quarter and full-year 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_relations@whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that fourth-quarter net earnings rose 111 percent to $95 million, or $1.24 per diluted share, compared to $44 million, or $0.60 per diluted share reported during the same period last year. Fourth-quarter results included an expense of $46 million, or $0.40 per share after tax, due to an accrual related to a previously disclosed legal action pertaining to a collection dispute. Sales of $4.9 billion increased 13 percent from the $4.3 billion reported in the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation, the company's fourth-quarter sales increased approximately 5 percent.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., February 2, 2010 
Fourth-quarter operating profit totaled $199 million compared with $10 million in the prior year. Results were favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives and increased sales volume. These favorable factors were partially offset by lower price/mix.
Full-year 2009 net earnings were $4.34 per diluted share compared to $5.50 per diluted share reported for 2008. The company reported annual net sales of $17.1 billion, a decrease of 10 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, sales declined approximately 6 percent from the prior year.
"In 2009, we significantly improved our global cost structure and operating performance despite a substantial decline in global demand levels," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "In addition, we generated record free cash flow and strengthened our financial position. I am pleased with our execution in this challenging environment, and we look to build upon our progress in 2010."
Whirlpool generated free cash flow** of $1.1 billion during 2009 compared with $(0.1) billion during 2008. For the full-year 2009, the company reported cash flow from operations of more than $1.5 billion. Working capital, particularly due to reduced inventory balances, was a significant source of cash flow during the year.
FOURTH-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
Fourth-quarter sales of $2.6 billion increased 4 percent from the prior year, while North American unit shipments increased 8 percent. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)* increased 6 percent during the fourth quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $136 million compared to a loss of $(20) million in the previous year. The improvement was primarily the result of cost reduction, productivity initiatives and increased sales volume. These factors were partially offset by lower product price/mix.
Based on the current economic outlook, the company expects full-year 2010 U.S. industry unit shipments to increase between 2 percent and 4 percent.
Whirlpool Europe
Whirlpool Europe reported fourth-quarter sales of $956 million, a 2 percent increase from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales declined approximately 9 percent. Overall industry unit demand during the quarter declined approximately 8 percent from the prior year.
The region reported an operating profit of $19 million during the fourth quarter compared with $2 million reported in the previous-year period. Results were favorably impacted by lower costs and higher price/mix. These factors were partially offset by lower volume.
The company expects full-year 2010 industry unit shipments to be approximately equal to 2009 levels.
Whirlpool Latin America
Fourth-quarter net sales totaled $1.2 billion, an increase of 52 percent from the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 28 percent.
Operating profit totaled $138 million in the fourth quarter compared with $110 million in the prior year. The improvement in profitability is primarily related to higher sales volumes, higher productivity and favorable foreign currency fluctuations. These items were partially offset by lower monetization levels of certain tax credits and lower price/mix.
The company currently anticipates full-year 2010 Brazilian appliance shipments will increase 5 percent to 10 percent compared to the previous year.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported fourth-quarter sales of $188 million, increasing 34 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased 27 percent. Operating profit during the quarter totaled $6 million, an increase of $3 million from the prior year. The year-over-year increase in operating profit was mainly attributable to higher unit volume and was partially offset by lower price/mix.
The company anticipates full-year 2010 industry unit shipments in Asia to be up 3 percent to 5 percent compared to 2009 levels.
Outlook
For the full-year 2010, Whirlpool Corporation expects earnings per diluted share between $6.50 and $7.00. For the full year, the company expects to generate free cash flow** of approximately $400 to $500 million. The company's earnings and free cash flow projections are based upon current economic forecasts and business plans.
"We have positioned the company to deliver strong earnings growth despite a continued challenging economic backdrop in the developed economies," said Fettig. "Cost reduction, cash flow generation and balanced market execution remain key operating priorities. These efforts combined with our global brand portfolio, innovative product offerings and the value of innovation we bring to consumers will provide us with growth opportunities throughout the year."
 
 
FOURTH-QUARTER 2009 PRODUCT LAUNCHES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH-QUARTER 2009 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Reconciliation**
The table below reconciles actual 2009 and 2008 and projected 2010 cash provided by operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States to free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure. Management believes that free cash flow provides shareholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures, including the difficulty associated with comparing companies that use similarly named non-GAAP measures whose calculations may differ from the company's calculations. As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operations after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $17 billion in 2009, 67,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (2) the effects of the global economic crisis on our customers, suppliers and the availability of credit; (3) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers, and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (4) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (5) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (6) product liability and product recall costs; (7) litigation and legal compliance risks; (8) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (9) inventory and other asset risk; (10) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (11) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (12) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future funding obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans; (13) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (14) information technology system failures and data security breaches (15) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (16) the effects of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (17) the impact of labor relations; (18) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (19) changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 


