FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20100219090925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 18, 2010, Whirlpool Corporation ("Whirlpool"), Whirlpool S.A., Whirlpool's Brazilian subsidiary, and Paulo F.M.O. Periquito entered into a Transition Agreement (the "Agreement"). As previously disclosed on December 17, 2009, Mr. Periquito resigned from his position, as President, Whirlpool International on December 31, 2009 and will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Whirlpool, S.A., until his current term ends, which is expected to be on or before April 30, 2010 (the "Transition Period").
The Agreement calls for continuation of his monthly base salary through the Transition Period and severance compensation and benefits to be provided to Mr. Periquito which are basically consistent with the current pay practices of Whirlpool S.A. with respect to retiring executives located in Brazil. This compensation includes: (1) a contribution of 1,009,764 reais (approximately U.S. $600,000), to Fundo de Garantia do Tempo De Servico, a government severance indemnity fund, on behalf of Mr. Periquito; and (2) a lump sum cash payment in reais equivalent to 13.82 months of base salary (U.S. $846,475). Mr. Periquito will receive additional benefits under the Agreement, including life insurance benefits for the duration of his life, retiree medical and dental benefits for him and his spouse for the duration of their lives (provided that such coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms) and, for security reasons continued use of a company car and driver through April 30, 2012. The cost of these additional benefits under the Agreement is not expected to exceed 1.7 million reais (approximately U.S. $1 million).
In consideration for these payments and benefits, Mr. Periquito agreed to (1) refrain from being engaged in any capacity in the appliance industry in Brazil and the United States for a period of two years, (2) be subject to non-solicitation, non-disparagement and confidentiality obligations, and (3) release Whirlpool, its subsidiaries and affiliates from all claims arising out of or related to his relationship with Whirlpool.
The above description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the Agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1, which agreement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Transition Agreement (the "Agreement") is made among Whirlpool Corporation (hereinafter "Whirlpool"), Whirlpool S.A. (hereinafter the "Company"), and Paulo F.M.O. Periquito, (hereinafter "Mr. Periquito"). In consideration of Mr. Periquito's long service and contribution to the success of Whirlpool and the Company, and the mutual promises and covenants, set forth herein, the parties agree to the terms and conditions related to Mr. Periquito's retirement from his current positions, as set forth herein.
 
 
 
 
Mr. Periquito agrees to refrain from being engaged, in any capacity, in the appliance industry in Brazil and in the United States of America for a period of two years beginning as of April 30, 2010. Further, for the same period of time, Mr. Periquito agrees that he will not personally, or in conjunction with others, solicit or recruit current employees of Whirlpool or its subsidiaries to leave employment.
 
 
 
 
 
 


