FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20110819083737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On August 18, 2011, the registrant issued a press release announcing that Roy W. Templin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and the company's principal financial officer, will retire from the company in April 2012 after eight years with the company. The press release also indicated that Larry M. Venturelli would succeed Mr. Templin in those roles at that time. Mr. Venturelli joined Whirlpool in 2002, and he will retain his current position of Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, and the company's principal accounting officer, until he succeeds Mr. Templin in April 2012.
A copy of the press release announcing these management changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT:
Whirlpool Corporation
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Angela Hersil, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today that Roy Templin, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will retire from the company. As part of the planned transition, Templin will remain in his current capacity until April 2012 to complete Whirlpool Corporation's year-end reporting and other transitional items. At that time, Larry Venturelli  currently senior vice president, corporate controller, chief accounting officer and chief financial officer for Whirlpool International  will succeed Templin as executive vice president and chief financial officer.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich.  August 18, 2011 
"Roy Templin has been an impactful leader at Whirlpool Corporation," said Jeff Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation Chairman and CEO. "During his tenure at Whirlpool, Roy was critical in helping to lead the company's successful acquisition of Maytag Corporation, build robust financial controls processes and strengthen the company's talent, control and risk management systems. Following his long and successful career, he is embarking on a long-planned second stage in his professional endeavors."
"Larry Venturelli's broad and global financial background, combined with his proven leadership, positions him well for this transition," said Fettig. "His experience encompasses every part of the organization, allowing him to continue our legacy of strong leadership as we move forward to deliver the company's strategies and goals."
Venturelli joined Whirlpool as assistant corporate controller in 2002. He was promoted to vice president, Investor Relations in 2004; to vice president, controller and chief accounting officer in 2006; and to vice president and chief financial officer for Whirlpool Corporation's North America Region in 2008. He was named senior vice president, corporate controller, and chief accounting officer and chief financial officer for Whirlpool International in 2010. Prior to joining Whirlpool, Venturelli held various financial positions at Royal Caribbean Cruises, Campbell Soup Company and Quaker Oats. Venturelli earned a master's degree in management from Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Business and a bachelor's degree in accounting from DePaul University.
Templin was named executive vice president and chief financial officer, as well a member of the Whirlpool Executive Committee, in 2004, and previously served as corporate vice president and controller.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of more than $18 billion in 2010, 71,000 employees, and 66 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht


