FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20110816081012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Appointment of New Directors
On August 15, 2011, the Board of Directors appointed Harish Manwani a Director of Whirlpool Corporation ("Company") and a member of the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Finance Committee. Mr. Manwani's compensation will be similar to other non-employee directors of the Company, which is described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011.
The press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Manwani is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT:
Whirlpool Corporation
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Angela Hersil, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today the appointment of Harish Manwani, president of Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe at Unilever, to its board of directors, effective immediately.
BENTON HARBOR, Mich.  August 15, 2011 
"His proven business leadership makes Harish Manwani an outstanding addition to our board," said Jeff M. Fettig, Whirlpool Corporation's chairman and chief executive officer. "We expect his breadth of experience and guidance on business issues will be invaluable to our board of directors and Whirlpool Corporation."
Manwani, 58, has served as president on the Unilever Executive Board since 2005, and has recently been appointed chief operating officer for Unilever effective September 2011. He joined Hindustan Unilever Limited in 1976 and has held positions of increasing responsibility, including overseeing Unilever's consumer goods businesses in Latin America, North America and Asia. He is also non-executive chairman of Hindustan Unilever Ltd.
Manwani is an honors graduate of Mumbai University and holds a master's degree in management studies. He also attended the Advanced Management Program at the Harvard Business School.
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of more than $18 billion in 2010, 71,000 employees, and 66 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht


