FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20110427063136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2011, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the first quarter of 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
 Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today first-quarter net earnings of $169 million, or $2.17 per diluted share, compared to $164 million, or $2.13 per diluted share reported during the same period last year. First-quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., April 27, 2011
1
totaled $2.11 compared to $2.51 in the prior year. Sales of $4.4 billion increased 3 percent from the $4.3 billion reported in the first quarter of 2010.
First-quarter operating profit totaled $228 million compared with $241 million in the prior year. On an adjusted basis, first quarter 2011 operating profit
2
totaled $221 million compared to $287 million in 2010. Results were favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives, increased monetization of certain tax credits, and higher unit volume. These favorable factors were offset by lower product price/mix and higher material and oil-related costs.
"Our first quarter results reflect our ongoing cost reduction efforts and continued innovation investments, which helped to mitigate significant material cost inflation," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "We recently announced a 16% dividend increase, reflective of the success of our brand value creation strategy and our strong financial position. We remain committed to attracting and retaining consumers to our brands, providing excellent service and value to our trade customers and consumers while driving lower costs and higher quality across our global operations."
During the three months ended March 31, 2011, the company reported cash flow used in operating activities of $(224) million. During the first quarter, Whirlpool Corporation reported free cash flow
3
of $(336) million compared to approximately $(74) million in the prior year.
 
FIRST-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
First-quarter sales of $2.3 billion increased slightly from the prior year. North America unit shipments increased approximately 4 percent. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)
4
decreased approximately 1 percent during the first quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $59 million compared to $94 million in the previous year. First-quarter 2011 adjusted operating profit
2
totaled $52 million compared to $140 million in 2010. Results were favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives and foreign exchange fluctuations. These factors were offset by lower product price/mix and higher material costs.
Based on the current economic outlook, the company continues to expect full-year 2011 U.S. industry unit shipments to increase between 2 percent and 3 percent.
Whirlpool Europe, Middle East and Africa
Whirlpool Europe, Middle East and Africa reported first-quarter sales of $743 million, a 1 percent increase from the prior year. Industry unit demand during the quarter was estimated to be equal to the prior year.
The region reported an operating profit of $25 million during the first quarter compared to an operating profit of $27 million in the previous year. Results were unfavorably impacted by lower product price/mix and higher material costs, partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
The company continues to expect full-year 2011 industry growth in the 2 to 4 percent range.
Whirlpool Latin America
Whirlpool Latin America reported first-quarter net sales of $1.2 billion, an increase of 8 percent from the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 2 percent.
 
Operating profit totaled $174 million in the first quarter compared with $167 million in the prior year. The improvement in profitability is primarily related to increased monetization of certain tax credits and cost reduction and productivity initiatives. These factors were partially offset by higher material costs.
The company continues to anticipate full-year 2011 appliance industry shipments will increase approximately 5 to 10 percent.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported first-quarter sales of $208 million, increasing 8 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased approximately 6 percent.
Operating profit totaled $11 million during the first quarter of 2011 and was approximately equal to the prior year level. Favorable volume and product price/mix were offset by higher material costs during the quarter.
The company continues to anticipate full-year 2011 industry unit shipments in Asia to increase approximately 6 to 8 percent.
Outlook
For the full-year 2011, Whirlpool Corporation continues to expect to produce diluted earnings per share of $12.00 to $13.00. For the full-year, the company expects to generate free cash flow between $400 million and $500 million. This outlook includes approximately $300 million to $350 million of U.S. energy tax credits and U.S. cash pension contributions of approximately $300 million.
"Despite a substantial increase in material and oil-related cost inflation, we are maintaining our full year earnings and cash flow outlook," said Fettig. "We have implemented cost-based price increases in many regions around the world, continue to introduce a strong cadence of innovative new products and remain focused on accelerating our cost reduction and productivity improvements to manage higher material cost inflation."
 
 
FIRST-QUARTER 2011 PRODUCT LAUNCHES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST QUARTER 2011 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $18 billion in 2010, 71,000 employees, and 66 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (4) product liability and product recall costs; (5) litigation and legal compliance risk and costs, especially costs which may be materially different from the amount we expect to incur or have accrued for; (6) the effects and costs of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (8) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (9) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (10) inventory and other asset risk; (11) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (12) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (13) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post retirement benefit plans; (14) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (15) information technology system failures and data security breaches; (16) the impact of labor relations; (17) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; and (18) changes in the legal and regulatory environment including environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before income taxes and other items (hereafter referred to as "adjusted earnings before tax"), adjusted diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders (hereafter referred to as "adjusted diluted earnings per share"), adjusted operating profit by segment (hereafter referred to as "adjusted segment operating profit"), and free cash flow. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist stockholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. Management believes adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment operating profit are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Management believes that free cash flow provides stockholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, diluted net earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders and cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the below reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors and stockholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
 
Adjusted Operating Profit, Adjusted Earnings Before Tax, Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the .
three-months ended March 31, 2011
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Profit
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the .
three-months ended March 31, 2011
 
 
Adjusted Operating Profit, Adjusted Earnings Before Tax, Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the .
three-months ended March 31, 2010
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Profit
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the .
three-months ended March 31, 2010
 
 
Free Cash Flow (Actual and 2011 Outlook)
As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operating activities after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses. The reconciliation provided below reconciles actual 2011 and 2010 and projected 2011 free cash flow with actual and projected cash (used in)/provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
Footnotes:
 
 
 


