FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20110202063209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2011, Whirlpool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
: Whirlpool Corporation
Contact
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Greg Fritz, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
 Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today fourth-quarter net earnings of $171 million, or $2.19 per diluted share, compared to $95 million, or $1.24 per diluted share reported during the same period last year. Fourth-quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., February 2, 2011
(1)
totaled $2.11 compared to $1.67 in the prior year. Sales of $5.0 billion increased 4 percent from the fourth quarter of 2009.
Fourth-quarter operating profit totaled $202 million compared with $199 million in the prior year. Results were favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiatives, increased monetization of certain tax credits, higher unit volume and lower incentive compensation. These favorable factors were offset by lower product price/mix and higher material costs.
Full-year 2010 net earnings were $7.97 per diluted share compared to $4.34 per diluted share reported for 2009. Full-year 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share
(1)
totaled $9.65, compared to $5.01 in the prior year. The company reported annual net sales of $18.4 billion, an increase of 7 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, sales increased approximately 5 percent from the prior year.
"Delivering consumer-relevant innovations, managing costs and executing in the marketplace drove our improved performance in 2010," said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "We improved our operating margins and strengthened our financial position for the year  all indicators that our brand-value creation strategy is working.
"As we enter 2011, we remain focused on delivering higher margin innovations, realizing significant cost productivity, and achieving profitable growth driven by some recovery in
 
demand in the developed economies and by continued strong growth in many emerging markets. In 2011, we expect to expand our operating margins despite significant global inflation and generate good levels of free cash flow and further strengthen our financial position."
During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, the company reported cash flow from operations of $1.1 billion. During 2010, Whirlpool Corporation generated free cash flow
(2)
of $502 million compared to approximately $1.1 billion in the prior year.
FOURTH-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
Fourth-quarter sales of $2.6 billion decreased 1 percent from the prior year. North America unit shipments increased approximately 5 percent. U.S. industry unit shipments of major appliances (T7)
(3)
increased 4 percent during the fourth quarter.
The North America region reported operating profit of $53 million compared to $136 million in the previous year. Fourth-quarter adjusted operating profit
(4)
totaled $43 million compared to $145 million. Results were unfavorably impacted by lower product price/mix, higher material costs and lower production volume. These factors were partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives and lower incentive compensation.
Based on the current economic outlook, the company expects full-year 2011 U.S. industry unit shipments to increase between 2 percent and 3 percent.
Whirlpool Europe
Whirlpool Europe reported fourth-quarter sales of $922 million, a 4 percent decrease from the prior year. Excluding the effects of currency, sales increased approximately 4 percent. Overall industry unit demand during the quarter increased an estimated 2 percent compared with the prior year.
The region reported an operating profit of $29 million during the fourth quarter compared to an operating profit of $19 million in the previous year. The year-over-year improvement was
 
primarily the result of cost reduction and productivity initiatives as well as higher unit volumes. The improvement was partially offset by lower price/mix and higher material costs.
The company expects full-year 2011 industry growth in the 2 to 4 percent range.
Whirlpool Latin America
Whirlpool Latin America reported fourth-quarter net sales of $1.4 billion, an increase of 18 percent from the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales increased approximately 17 percent.
Operating profit totaled $193 million in the fourth quarter compared with $138 million in the prior year. The improvement in profitability is primarily related to increased monetization of certain tax credits and cost reduction and productivity initiatives. These factors were partially offset by higher material costs, lower price/mix and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.
The company currently anticipates full-year 2011 Brazilian appliance shipments will increase approximately 5 to 10 percent.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported fourth-quarter sales of $204 million, increasing 9 percent from the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased approximately 4 percent.
Operating profit totaled $4 million during the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $6 million in the prior year. The reduction in operating profit is primarily related to higher material costs.
The company anticipates full-year 2011 industry unit shipments in Asia to increase approximately 6 to 8 percent.
 
Outlook
For the full-year 2011, Whirlpool Corporation expects to report diluted earnings per share of $12.00 to $13.00. This outlook includes the impact of approximately $4.00 per share from U.S. energy tax credits we expect to earn during 2011 as a result of recent tax legislation in the U.S. For the full year, the company expects to generate free cash flow between $400 million and $500 million. This outlook includes U.S. cash pension contributions of approximately $300 million.
"For 2011, we expect positive but uneven demand levels around the world. Raw material inflation is driving costs higher and we expect to mitigate these costs with improvements in cost productivity, innovation and recently announced price increases," said Fettig. "For the year, we expect to report EPS of $12.00 to $13.00 per share and free cash flow in the range of $400 million to $500 million which includes a significant cash pension contribution."
(1) A reconciliation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, a non-GAAP financial measure, to reported diluted earnings per share and other important information, appears on pages 12-13.
(2) A reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to cash provided by operating activities and other important information, appears on page 15.
(3) T7 refers to the following household appliance categories: washers, dryers, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, ranges and compactors.
(4) A reconciliation of adjusted operating profit, a non-GAAP financial measure, to reported operating profit and other important information, appears on pages 14.
 
FOURTH-QUARTER 2010 PRODUCT LAUNCHES
 
 
No. 1 rated front-load washing machine by a leading consumer magazine.
 
No. 2 rated front-load washing machine by a leading consumer magazine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOURTH-QUARTER 2010 AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of over $18 billion in 2010, 71,000 employees, and 67 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
:
Whirlpool Additional Information
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Whirlpool") that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (4) product liability and product recall costs; (5) litigation and legal compliance risk and costs, especially costs which may be materially different from the amount we expect to incur or have accrued for; (6) the effects and costs of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (8) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (9) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (10) inventory and other asset risk; (11) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (12) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (13) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post retirement benefit plans; (14) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (15) information technology system failures and data security breaches; (16) the impact of labor relations; (17) our ability to attract, develop and retain
 
executives and other qualified employees; and (18) changes in the legal and regulatory environment including environmental and health and safety regulations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before income taxes and other items (hereafter referred to as "adjusted earnings before tax"), adjusted diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders (hereafter referred to as "adjusted diluted earnings per share"), adjusted operating profit by segment (hereafter referred to as "adjusted segment operating profit"), and free cash flow. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist stockholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. Management believes adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment operating profit are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Management believes that free cash flow provides stockholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, diluted net earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders and cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the below reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors and stockholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
 
Adjusted Operating Profit, Adjusted Earnings Before Tax, Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the .
three-months ended December 31, 2010
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the .
twelve-months ended December 31, 2010
 
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the .
three-months ended December 31, 2009
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes and other items, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the .
twelve-months ended December 31, 2009
 
 
Adjusted Segment Operating Profit
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the .
three-months ended December 31, 2010
 
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the .
three-months ended December 31, 2009
 
 
Free Cash Flow (Actual and 2011 Outlook)
As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operating activities after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets/businesses. The reconciliation provided below reconciles actual 2010 and 2009 and projected 2011 free cash flow with actual and projected cash (used in)/provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
Footnotes:
 
 
 


