FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20121023064510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event repo
rted)
October 23, 2012
 
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
               
Registrants telephone number, including area code (269) 923-5000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On
October 23, 2012
, Whirl
pool Corporation issued a press release providing information regarding earnings for the
third
quarter of
2012
. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information, including Exhibit 99.1, in this Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall otherwise be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)     
Exhibits.
99.1    Press Rele
ase dated
October 23, 2012
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:
October 23, 2012
                    WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
By:     
/s/ LARRY M. VENTURELLI        
Name:     Larry M. Venturelli
Title:     Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact
: Whirlpool Corporation
Media: Whirlpool Corporation Press Office, 269/923-7405
Media@Whirlpool.com
Financial: Joseph Lovechio, 269/923-2641
Investor_Relations@Whirlpool.com
  
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION REPORTS
THIRD
-QUARTER
2012
RESULTS
Raising Full-Year Ongoing Business EPS Guidance
Ongoing Business Operating Profit Improves 140 Percent During the Quarter;
GAAP Operating Profit Improves 60 Percent
Continued Margin Expansion With Revenue Up 5 percent
Excluding Currency and Tax Credits
BENTON HARBOR, Mich., October 23, 2012
- Whirlpool Corporation (NYSE: WHR) announced today
third
-quarter GAAP net earnings of
$74 million
, or
$0.94
per diluted share, compared to net earnings of
$177 million
, or
$2.27
per diluted share reported during the same period last year. Prior-year GAAP earnings included tax credits of $2.35 per share. On an adjusted basis, diluted earnings per share
(1)
improved significantly to
$1.80
compared to
$0.29
in the prior year driven by continued favorable product price and mix and the benefit of cost and capacity-reduction initiatives.
Sales in the quarter were
$4.5 billion
, compared to $4.6 billion in 2011. Excluding the impact of both foreign currency and lower Brazilian (BEFIEX) tax credits, sales increased approximately 5 percent driven by strong product price and mix.
We have delivered three consecutive quarters of year-over-year operating margin improvement this year driven by the actions we outlined last October, said Jeff M. Fettig, chairman and chief executive officer of Whirlpool Corporation. "Our ongoing business performance should continue to improve due to our strong cadence of new product innovations, the benefit of our cost savings programs and positive trends in U.S. housing.
1
Third
-quarter GAAP operating profit totaled
$214 million
compared with
$136 million
in the prior year primarily driven by positive product price and mix, partially offset by reduced monetization of Brazilian (BEFIEX) tax credits and higher material costs. On an adjusted basis,
third
-quarter operating profit
(2)
totaled
$263 million
, approximately 6 percent of sales, and was up significantly from the
$110 million
, or approximately 2 percent of sales, reported in the prior year. Continued improvement in product price and mix and cost and capacity-reduction initiatives positively impacted results during the quarter.
During the
three months ended
September 30, 2012
, the company reported cash flow used in operating activities of
$(161) million
compared to
$(342) million
in the prior-year period. Current year results include a $275 million non-recurring settlement for the Brazilian collection dispute and $164 million in U.S. pension contributions.
OUTLOOK
Whirlpool Corporation is increasing its full-year ongoing business operations diluted earnings
per share
(1)
guidance to $6.90 to $7.10 compared to the previous range of $6.50 to $7.00. The company maintains its full-year GAAP diluted earnings per share guidance of $5.00 to $5.50. This assumes a full-year effective tax rate of 25 percent.
*The U.S. energy tax program concluded at the end of 2011. 2012 outlook does not include energy tax credits.
**
The company has made an adjustment to its ongoing business operations EPS to reflect a rate of 25 percent which is consistent with the full-year tax rate assumption.
 
The company now expects to generate free cash flow
(3)
between $125 million and $175 million, up from $100 million and $150 million. Included in this guidance is the
$275 million
final installment to settle the Brazilian collection dispute, $110 million for antitrust payments, pension contributions of up to $200 million and restructuring cash outlays of up to $250 million.
2
"We are increasing our full-year ongoing business operations EPS and free cash flow outlook based on our year-to-date performance and strong momentum we see in the business today," said Fettig. "Our margin expansion efforts are working and consumers continue to show preference for our brands and innovative product offerings around the world. We are executing against our long-term growth strategy, investing in areas key to our future success and are well positioned for global industry demand recovery.
THIRD
-QUARTER REGIONAL REVIEW
Whirlpool North America
Third
-quarter sales of
$2.4 billion
increased approximately 2 percent from the prior year. Overall, North America unit shipments decreased
approximately 5 percent. The North America region reported operating profit of
$227 million
, exceeding 9 percent of sales, compared to
$62 million
, approximately 3 percent of sales, in the previous year. Product price and mix combined with cost and capacity-reduction actions more than offset higher material costs to expand operating margins. This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year operating profit margin improvement.
Based on the current economic outlook, the company continues to expect full-year
2012
U.S. industry unit shipments to be flat to down 2 percent.
Whirlpool Latin America
Whirlpool Latin America reported
third
-quarter sales of
$1.2 billion
essentially equal to the prior-year period. Excluding currency translation and Brazilian (BEFIEX) tax credits, sales increased 21 percent on higher volumes and improved product price and mix. Unit shipments for the region increased approximately 15 percent.
The region reported operating profit of $118 million compared to $147 million in the previous year. During the 2012 and 2011 quarters, the company monetized
$13 million
and
$62 million
of Brazilian (BEFIEX) tax credits, respectively.
On an adjusted basis, operating profit
(4)
totaled
$105 million
, approximately 9 percent of sales, versus
$85 million
, approximately 8 percent of sales, in the prior year. Favorable product price and mix more than offset higher material costs.
The company now expects full-year
2012
appliance industry shipments in the Latin America region to
increase
in the 7 to 10 percent range.
3
Whirlpool Europe, Middle East and Africa
Whirlpool Europe, Middle East and Africa reported
third
-quarter sales of
$703 million
versus
$874 million
in the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales decreased approximately 10 percent. Unit shipments for the region decreased 9 percent.
The region reported an operating loss of $(35) million, compared to the $(12) million operating loss in the prior-year period. Favorable cost and capacity-reduction initiatives were more than offset by lower production levels due to weak demand across the region, unfavorable currency and higher material costs.
The company now expects full-year 2012 industry unit shipments to
decrease
in the range of 2 to 3 percent.
Whirlpool Asia
Whirlpool Asia reported
third
-quarter sales of
$201 million
versus
$215 million
in the prior year. Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased 2 percent. Asia unit shipments decreased 1 percent.
Operating profit of $7 million in the
third
quarter was up compared to $4 million in the prior-year period. Favorable product price and mix more than offset unfavorable currency and higher material costs.
The company now expects full-year
2012
industry unit shipments in Asia to decrease 5 to 7 percent.
(1) A reconciliation of ongoing business operations/adjusted diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP financial measures, to reported diluted earnings per share and other important information, appears on page 12.
(2) A reconciliation of ongoing business operations/adjusted operating profit, non-GAAP financial measures, to reported operating profit and other important information, appears on page 12.
(3) A reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to cash provided by / (used in) operating activities and other important information, appears on page 14.
(4) A reconciliation of ongoing business operations/adjusted operating profit by segment, non-GAAP financial measures, to reported operating profit by segment and other important information, appears on page 13.
4
THIRD
-QUARTER
2012
PRODUCT LAUNCHES
Whirlpool North America Region launched:
Whirlpool Latin America Region launched:
Whirlpool Europe, Middle East and Africa Region launched:
 
5
Whirlpool Asia Region launched:
THIRD
-QUARTER
2012
AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
6
About Whirlpool Corporation
Whirlpool Corporation is the world's leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, with annual sales of approximately $19 billion in 2011, 68,000 employees, and 65 manufacturing and technology research centers around the world. The company markets
Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Brastemp, Consul, Bauknecht
and other major brand names to consumers in nearly every country around the world. Additional information about the company can be found at http://www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
Whirlpool Additional Information
:
This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (Whirlpool) that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and material and oil-related prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool's forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers; (2) Whirlpool's ability to continue its relationship with significant trade customers and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products, including the strength of the building industry and the level of interest rates; (4) inventory and other asset risk; (5) global, political and/or economic uncertainty and disruptions, especially in Whirlpool's significant geographic regions, including uncertainty and disruptions arising from natural disasters or terrorist attacks; (6) The impact of the European debt crisis; (7) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, cost control, price increases, leveraging of its global operating platform, and acceleration of the rate of innovation; (8) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, oil, plastic, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (9) litigation and legal compliance risk and costs, especially costs which may be materially different from the amount we expect to incur or have accrued for; (10) product liability and product recall costs; (11) the effects and costs of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; (12) Whirlpool's ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (13) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (14) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future funding obligations for pension and post retirement benefit plans; (15) information technology system failures and data security breaches; (16) the impact of labor relations; (17) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (18) changes in the legal and regulatory environment including environmental and health and safety regulations; and (19) the ability of Whirlpool to manage foreign currency fluctuations. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in Whirlpool Corporation's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K.
7
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (UNAUDITED)
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30
(Millions of dollars, except per share data)
 
8
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Millions of dollars, except share data)
 
9
WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
NINE MONTHS
ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30
(Millions of dollars)
 
10
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(Millions of dollars except per share data)
(Unaudited)
We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, which we refer to as "ongoing business operations" measures, including adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings (loss) before income taxes (hereafter referred to as adjusted earnings (loss) before tax), adjusted diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders (hereafter referred to as adjusted diluted earnings per share), adjusted operating profit by segment (hereafter referred to as adjusted segment operating profit), and free cash flow. Ongoing business operations measures exclude items that may not be indicative of, or are unrelated to, results from our ongoing business operations. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist stockholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. Management believes adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted segment operating profit are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of, or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Management believes that free cash flow provides stockholders with a relevant measure of liquidity and a useful basis for assessing the company's ability to fund its activities and obligations. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes, diluted net earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders and cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the following reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors and stockholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
11
Ongoing Business Operations Measures - Adjusted Operating Profit, Adjusted Earnings Before Tax, Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the three months ended
September 30, 2012
.
Ongoing Business Operations Measures - Adjusted Operating Profit, Adjusted Earnings Before Tax, Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted earnings before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported operating profit, earnings before income taxes, and diluted earnings per share available to Whirlpool common stockholders, for the three months ended
September 30, 2011
.
12
Ongoing Business Operations Measures - Adjusted Segment Operating Profit    
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the three months ended
September 30, 2012
.
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted segment operating profit with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported segment operating profit, for the three months ended
September 30, 2011
.
13
Footnotes:
Free Cash Flow (
2012
Outlook)
As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by operating activities after capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of assets. The reconciliation provided below reconciles projected
2012
full-year free cash flow with projected cash provided by / (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
*Includes Brazilian collection dispute 2012 payment, antitrust resolutions, restructuring cash payments and pension contributions.
# # #
14


