FILE:WHR/WHR-8K-20120711093333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On July 11, 2012, Whirlpool Corporation (the "Company"), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, IRE Beteiligungs GmbH and Bauknecht Hausgerate GmbH (together with the Company, "Whirlpool"), entered into a Master Agreement on the Restructuring of Alno AG (the "Agreement"), with Alno AG ("Alno") and certain of its related entities, creditors and shareholders, which sets out the framework for a restructuring to strengthen Alno's equity base and reduce its long-term debt. Alno, a longstanding Whirlpool customer in Europe, is one of Germany's leading kitchen manufacturers. Alno is a publicly traded German stock corporation and Whirlpool owns, on a pre-restructuring basis, approximately 18.25% of its ordinary shares.
The principal actions contemplated by the Agreement are as follows:
 
 
 
Whirlpool will determine financing for its subscription of new Alno shares when the amount and timing of payment are finalized. Whirlpool expects that the completion of the restructuring will occur by the end of the fourth quarter of 2012 or the first quarter of 2013, assuming that all steps necessary to the restructuring are completed as currently planned.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements about the planned restructuring of Alno and Whirlpool's participation therein. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the filing date of this report and should be considered with the understanding that they involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, and may be affected by inaccurate assumptions. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual events or results may vary materially. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Among the factors that can affect Whirlpool's expectations expressed in this report are: (i) whether Alno's shareholders will approve the share capital actions described above; (ii) whether Alno is able to complete the steps necessary to implement its planned capital increase and the other actions contemplated by the Agreement within the required timeframes therefor; (iii) whether all conditions to the restructuring will be satisfied or waived by the applicable parties to the Agreement; and (iv) the compliance by each other party to the Agreement with its obligations thereunder as and when required by the Agreement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


