ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Except for the historical information contained herein, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our consolidated financial data includes SnapTrack, Inc., Vsper Holding Ltd. and other consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We design, manufacture and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA and other technologies. We derive revenue principally from license fees and royalties from our intellectual property, from sales of integrated circuit products, from services and related hardware sales and from software development and related services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of revenues, research and development, selling, general and administrative, amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets, and asset impairment and related charges. Our QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT) segment is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications and global positioning system products. QCT software products are the interface link between the operating system that controls the phone and the functionality embedded in our integrated circuit products. QCT products are sold to many of the worlds leading wireless phone and infrastructure manufacturers. QCT revenues comprised 52%, 51% and 39% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. QCTs operating margin was 28% in fiscal 2002, compared to 22% in 2001 and 32% in 2000. The increase in operating margin in 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily related to a change in product mix toward higher end devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X products. The decrease in operating margin in 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily related to increased research and development costs associated with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives, as well as increased advertising expenses. Our QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) segment receives license fees and royalty payments for use of our CDMA technology by domestic and international wireless telecommunications equipment suppliers. QTL generates revenue from license fees for our patented CDMA (e.g., cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA and TD SCDMA) technologies as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees that design, manufacture and sell products incorporating our CDMA technology. QTL revenues comprised 28%, 29% and 22% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. QTLs operating margin was 89% in fiscal 2002, compared to 90% in 2001 and 2000. Our QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet (QWI) segment, which includes QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions (QWBS), QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) and QUALCOMM Digital Media (QDM), generates revenue primarily through mobile communication products and services, software, and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QWI revenues comprised 14%, 16% and 14% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. QWIs operating margin was a negative 2% in fiscal 2002, compared to positive 8% in 2001 and 19% in 2000. The decrease in operating margin from 2001 to 2002, and from 2000 to 2001, was primarily due to expenses incurred in the development, support and marketing efforts related to the BREW product. Our QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications. Our strategy is to invest in CDMA carriers, licensed device manufacturers and start up companies that we believe open new markets for CMDA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess unique capabilities or technology to promote Internet data communications. The QSI segments revenues relate primarily to the consolidation of our investment in Vsper Holding. QSI revenues comprised 4% of fiscal 2002 total consolidated revenues. QSI did not generate revenues in 2001 or 2000. QSIs operating margin was negative 401% in 2002 and was not meaningful in 2001 or 2000. 43 Table of Contents Recent global economic weakness has had wide ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network operators. We cannot predict whether a recovery will occur or what effects negative events, such as war, may have on the economy. Further, an economic recovery, if it occurs, may not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. To increase our revenues and market share in future periods, we are dependent upon the adoption and commercial deployment of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our CDMA technology. Although network operators have commercially deployed CDMA2000 1X, we cannot predict the timing or success of other commercial deployments. If existing deployments are not commercially successful, or if new commercial deployments of CDMA2000 1X are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. Historically, this competition has resulted and is expected to continue to result in reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products generally results in reduced average royalties. While this trend has, to a large extent, been mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will continue. The wireless communications industry has experienced consolidation of participants, and this trend may continue. If wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that compete with CDMA, then CDMA may lose market share unless the surviving entity continues to deploy CDMA. This consolidation could also result in delays in or cancellation of purchasing decisions by the merged companies, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. We will continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. If we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, then we may not be able to maintain an acceptable rate of growth in our business. Revenues from customers in the United States, South Korea, and Japan comprised 30%, 37% and 18%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, as compared to 35%, 35%, and 22%, respectively, in fiscal 2001, and 53%, 22% and 13%, respectively, in fiscal 2000. We distinguish revenue from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. The decreases in revenues from customers in the United States, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to the sale of the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business in February 2000 and a decrease in revenues related to business with Globalstar. The increases in revenues from customers in South Korea, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to the commercial deployment of our 3G CDMA2000 1X technology in October 2000 in South Korea, where 15 million, or 46%, of the nations total mobile service users were using this technology by the end of October 2002. The general increase in revenues from customers in Japan as a percentage of the total is primarily attributed to an ongoing migration to 3G services, illustrated by KDDIs expectation of 7 million, or 40%, of their subscriber base using 3G services by March 2003, as reported by the CDG. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, adequacy of allowances for doubtful accounts, valuation of intangible assets and investments, income taxes, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making 44 Table of Contents judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results may differ from our estimates. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from royalties, from sales of integrated circuit products, from services and related hardware sales, from software development and related services, and from license fees for intellectual property. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate method of revenue recognition involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but it is possible that actual results may differ from our estimates. In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements which we adopted in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 and applied retroactively to the first quarter of fiscal 2001. We recognized $66 million and $95 million during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, in net income before income taxes and accounting changes related to revenue and expense that was recognized in prior years. We continue to monitor developments in Emerging Issues Task Force discussions of Issue 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables and Issue 02 G, Recognition of Revenue from Licensing Arrangements on Intellectual Property, to determine what, if any, impact a final consensus may have on our revenue recognition policy. We license rights to use our intellectual property portfolio, which includes patent rights to use cdmaOne, CDMA2000, CDMA2000 1X, CDMA2000 1x EV DO, TD SCDMA and WCDMA technologies. Licensees typically pay a non refundable license fee and on going royalties on their sales of products incorporating our intellectual property. License fees are generally recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We generally recognize royalty revenue as earned when reasonable estimates of such amounts can be made. Certain royalty revenues are accrued based on estimates prior to the reporting of such revenues by our licensees. Estimates of royalty revenues are based on analyses of historical royalty data by licensee, the relationship between the timing of our sales of integrated circuits to our licensees and our licensees sales of CDMA phones and infrastructure equipment, average sales price forecasts, and current market and economic trends. When our licensees report royalties for which we accrued revenues based on estimates, we adjust revenues for the period in which the reports are received. Revenues from sales of our CDMA based integrated circuits are recognized at the time of shipment, or when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, if later. Revenues and expenses from sales of certain satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging and position reporting hardware and related software products are recognized ratably over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the hardware product or the expected messaging service period, which is typically five years, as the messaging service is considered integral to the functionality of the hardware and software. Revenues from providing services are recorded when earned. Revenues from long term contracts are generally recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting, based on costs incurred compared with total estimated costs. The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total contract revenue and costs. Revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged or credited to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. If actual contract costs are greater than expected, reduction of contract profit would be required. Billings on uncompleted contracts in excess of incurred cost and accrued profits are classified as unearned revenue. Estimated contract losses are recognized when determined. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance exists or the contracts duration is relatively short, we use the completed contract method. Revenues from software license fees are recognized when all of the following criteria are met: the written agreement is executed; the software is delivered; the license fee is fixed and determinable; collectibility of the license fee is probable; and if applicable, when vendor specific objective evidence exists to allocate the total 45 Table of Contents license fee to elements of multiple element arrangements, including post contract customer support. When contracts contain multiple elements wherein vendor specific objective evidence exists for all undelivered elements, we recognize revenue for the delivered elements and defer revenue for the undelivered elements until the remaining obligations have been satisfied. If vendor specific objective evidence does not exist for all undelivered elements, revenue for the delivered and undelivered elements is deferred until remaining obligations have been satisfied, or if the only undelivered element is post contract customer support, revenue is recognized ratably over the support period. Significant judgments and estimates are made in connection with the recognition of software license revenue, including assessments of collectibility and the fair values of deliverable elements. The amount or timing of our software license revenue may differ as a result of changes in these judgments or estimates. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We consider the following factors when determining if collection of a fee is reasonably assured: customer credit worthiness, past transaction history with the customer, current economic industry trends and changes in customer payment terms. If we have no previous experience with the customer, we typically obtain reports from various credit organizations to ensure that the customer has a history of paying its creditors. We may also request financial information, including financial statements or other documents (e.g., bank statements) to ensure that the customer has the means of making payment. If these factors do not indicate collection is reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until collection becomes reasonable assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. We also maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of entities we have financed to make required payments. We evaluate the adequacy of allowances for doubtful finance and note receivables based on analyses of the financed entities credit worthiness, current economic trends or market conditions, review of the entities current and projected financial and operational information, and consideration of the fair value of collateral to be received, if applicable. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. If the financial condition of the financed entities were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions and other factors. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority strategic investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing a publicly traded investment for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, the performance of the investees stock price in relation to the stock price of its competitors within the industry 46 Table of Contents and the market in general and analyst recommendations. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. We hold minority strategic investments in private companies whose values are difficult to determine. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing investments in private companies for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the share price from the investees latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the investees revenue and cost trends, the liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate and market acceptance of the investees products and services. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. We also consider new products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any significant news that has been released specific to the investee or the investees competitors and or industry and the outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates. Income Taxes Our income tax provision is based on calculations and assumptions that will be subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Should the actual results differ from our estimates, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. Tax law and rate changes are reflected in the income tax provision in the period in which such changes are enacted. Since we believe it is more likely than not that deductions from future employee stock option exercises will exceed future taxable income, we have provided a valuation allowance through equity on substantially all of our net deferred tax assets. We consider estimated future taxable income and on going tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance. We can only use our capital losses and capital loss carrybacks or carryforwards to offset capital gains. We have developed tax planning strategies to generate future capital gains sufficient to offset the capital losses that we have incurred through fiscal 2002. Any additional capital losses in future years may require us to set up a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets through our statement of operations if we are unable to generate sufficient future capital gains to offset these additional capital losses through our tax planning strategies. We consider the operating earnings of non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Should we have to repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. Litigation We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Strategic Investments and Financing Our QSI segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications. In general, we enter into strategic 47 Table of Contents relationships with CDMA carriers and developers of innovative technologies or products for the wireless communications industry. As part of the agreement to sell our infrastructure equipment business to Ericsson in 1999, we have provided equipment financing to customers of Ericsson on a shared basis with respect to Ericssons sale of CDMA infrastructure in Brazil, Mexico and elsewhere. Our QSI segment selects and manages strategic investments in early stage companies and, from time to time, venture funds or incubators, to support the adoption of CDMA and use of the wireless Internet. Most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. To the extent such investments become liquid and meet strategic objectives, we attempt to make regular periodic sales that are recognized in investment (expense) income. We may reduce or suspend the planned sale of these investments if and when market conditions decline. We regularly monitor and evaluate the realizable value of our investments in both marketable and private securities. If events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of these assets has occurred and is other than temporary, we will record a charge to investment (expense) income. During fiscal 2002, we recognized $230 million in charges related to other than temporary losses on marketable and private securities. In some cases, we make strategic investments in early stage companies which require us to consolidate or record our equity in the losses of those companies. The consolidation of these losses can adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to the investments. From time to time, we may accept equity interests in a licensee as consideration for a portion or all of the license fees payable under our CDMA license agreements. We record license fee revenues based on the fair values of the equity instruments received, if determinable. The measurement date for determination of fair value is the earlier of the date on which the parties establish a commitment to perform or the date at which the performance is complete. The evaluation procedures used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, examining the current market price for the shares if the licensee is publicly traded, examining recent rounds of financing and the licensees business plan if not publicly traded, and performing other due diligence procedures. We account for the equity received using APB 18 or FAS 115, as appropriate. This program will not affect the licensees obligations to pay royalties under their CDMA license agreements. The amount of cash consideration and the timing of revenue recognition vary depending on the terms of each agreement. As of September 30, 2002, nine licensees have participated in this program. We recognized $6 million and $7 million of revenue in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, and no revenue in fiscal 2000 related to equity received as consideration for license fees. VeloCom, Inc. On November 29, 2001, we forgave $119 million under our debt facility with VeloCom, Inc. (VeloCom), an investor in Vsper Holding. We also converted our remaining $56 million convertible promissory note into equity securities of VeloCom (the VeloCom exchange) in conjunction with our acquisition of Vsper Holding. The VeloCom exchange increased our equity interest in VeloCom to 49.9%. We use the equity method to account for our investment in VeloCom. At September 30, 2002, our investment in VeloCom was $33 million, net of our equity in VeloComs losses. Vsper Holding, Ltd. In fiscal 1999, we acquired an approximate 16% ownership interest in Vsper Sao Paulo S.A. and Vsper S.A. (the Vsper Operating Companies or collectively, Vsper). The Vsper Operating Companies were formed by a consortium of investors to provide fixed wireless and wireline telephone services in the northern, northeast and eastern regions of Brazil and in the state of Sao Paulo. In addition, we extended long term financing to the Vsper Operating Companies related to our financing arrangement with Ericsson. On November 13, 2001, we consummated a series of transactions as part of an overall financial restructuring (the Restructuring) of the Vsper Operating Companies. Pursuant to the Restructuring, we committed to invest $266 million, and VeloCom committed to invest $80 million, in a newly formed holding company called Vsper Holding. Vsper Holding acquired certain liabilities of the Vsper Operating Companies from their vendors for $135 million and the issuance of warrants to purchase an approximate 7% interest in Vsper Holding, and the vendors released in full any claims that 48 Table of Contents they might have against us, VeloCom, the Vsper Operating Companies and other related parties arising from or related to the acquired liabilities. In a series of related transactions, Vsper Holding agreed to contribute the acquired liabilities to the Vsper Operating Companies in exchange for equity securities and to cancel the contributed liabilities. At September 30, 2002, we directly owned 72% of the issued and outstanding equity of Vsper Holding, and we indirectly owned an additional 11.9% of Vsper Holding through our ownership interest in VeloCom, totaling an 83.9% direct and indirect interest. The purchase price allocation, based on the estimated fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed, included $307 million for property, plant and equipment, $39 million for licenses, and $31 million for other intangible assets. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over useful lives ranging from 2 to 18 years. Licenses and other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives of 18 years and 3 to 18 years, respectively. When we obtained the controlling interest in Vsper Holding, Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, required that we adjust our prior period results to account for our original 16% ownership interest in the Vsper Operating Companies, predecessors to Vsper Holding, using the equity method of accounting. As a result, we recorded $6 million, $150 million and $48 million of equity in losses of the Vsper Operating Companies for fiscal 2002 (pre acquisition), 2001 and 2000, respectively. We recorded a $59 million reduction in finance receivables, an $18 million reduction in other assets and a $77 million reduction in retained earnings at September 30, 2001. We previously recorded $121 million in asset impairment charges and other than temporary losses on other investments during fiscal 2001. Because those charges did not exceed the losses recorded as a result of using the equity method, our net loss for fiscal 2001 increased by $29 million. We did not record any asset impairment charges or other than temporary losses during fiscal 2000, and as a result of using the equity method, the net income for fiscal 2000 decreased by $48 million. In July 2002, a group of Brazilian mobile operators sued the Vsper Operating Companies, claiming Vsper violated its STFC (fixed) license by allowing full mobility on its network. The court issued an order temporarily restraining Vsper from continued sales of its limited mobility product pending the trial. This order did not impact Vspers existing customers, nor sales of other types of products. Subsequently, Anatel, the Brazilian telecommunications regulatory agency, placed a similar administrative hold on Vsper until such time as it could determine whether Vsper was in compliance with existing regulations. Vsper successfully appealed the court order, and the temporary restraint was lifted although the underlying court case remains to be tried. Additionally, Vsper and Anatel reviewed the issue from a technical and regulatory standpoint, and the parties reached an agreement which allows Vsper to resume sales of its limited mobility product once certain technical adjustments to restrict broad mobility are implemented in Vspers network. Vsper has commenced making such technical adjustments and expects to complete them in all of its markets over the next few months. Sales of the affected products have resumed in those areas in which the technical modifications have already been completed. During September 2002, Vsper decided to replace all towers manufactured by one of its third party contractors due to the identification of structural defects, resulting in an asset impairment charge of $0.5 million. This decision was made after severe storm winds damaged and or destroyed a number of Vsper towers manufactured by that third party contractor. Overall, this replacement program impacts up to 66 Vsper towers, which carry antennae for less than 9% of Vsper base stations. Vsper towers manufactured by other parties were also inspected during this process and found to be in proper condition. Replacements have begun for the most critical towers, and all affected towers are expected to be replaced by March 2003. Vsper has not experienced and does not expect to experience any appreciable service degradation during this replacement process. Vsper also is seeking to complete a tower sale leaseback of a portion of its tower sites by December 31, 2002, including the defective towers, pursuant to which the purchasing party would assume all further liability for the purchased towers and fulfill replacement construction obligations. Vsper expects the tower sale leaseback arrangement, which includes the cost of replacing the defective towers, to provide net cash inflows during calendar 2002. 49 Table of Contents In September 2002, Anatel issued Resolution 314, which modifies certain current telecommunications regulations. As part of this resolution and prior resolutions, Vsper will be required to vacate its current spectrum in the 1900MHz frequency (analogous to United States Band A/ D) in the coming years to enable the frequency to be allotted to future Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) license holders. In return, Vsper has been assigned new 1900MHz frequencies (analogous to United States PCS Band C). Pursuant to Resolution 314, upon completion of up banding of its network, Vsper would be permitted to utilize the new 1900MHz frequencies for its primary allocation for fixed wireless services as well as to apply for permission to use those frequencies for full mobility services offered under an SMP (mobile) license. Such secondary use of the new 1900 MHz frequencies for SMP (mobile) services would require Vsper to either obtain its own SMP license(s) or to enter into an arrangement with an SMP license holder whereby CDMA mobility at 1900MHz would be offered by the license holder utilizing Vspers up banded infrastructure. Significant costs, constraints and hurdles exist with respect to accomplishing these objectives, including Vspers or another partys ability to acquire the necessary SMP license(s), uncertainty whether and to what extent applicable Brazilian telecommunications regulations would require Vsper to build out additional infrastructure in another frequency band in order to offer SMP (mobile) services, the cost of up banding Vspers CDMA radio interface equipment, and uncertainty whether reimbursement for such costs can be obtained from future UMTS license holder(s). On November 19, 2002, we won bids to acquire mobile licenses in the state of Sao Paulo (excluding Sao Paulo metro), the state of Minas Gerais, and in the Northeast region of Brazil (license Areas 2, 4, and 10, respectively). The new mobile licenses cover areas with a combined population in excess of 64 million. The mobile licenses overlap with approximately 47% of Vsper Holdings existing Wireless Local Loop areas. None of the mobile licenses cover an area outside of Vsper Holdings current coverage areas. Approximately $8 million of the approximate $83 million total purchase price is payable by December 19, 2002. The remaining $75 million Brazilian real denominated obligation is financed by the Brazilian government at an interest rate of 12%, plus an adjustment for inflation, payable in six equal annual installments. The first such installment payment is due in 36 months. Access to long term funding sources to fund growth is a critical issue for Vsper. We continue to seek strategic partners and or acquirers to participate in this process. We continue to invest in Vsper to ensure the establishment of CDMA based systems and to provide CDMA coverage and roaming possibilities to as many regions throughout Brazil as possible. The investment will help us grow our revenues from royalties and from the sale of integrated circuits to phone manufacturers. In other words, our return on our investment in Vsper is not limited to a Vsper ownership interest, but also includes indirect revenues, including CDMA licensing revenues and QCT integrated circuit sales from third party suppliers to Vsper. Further, the Vsper business plan, similar to other start up wireless operators, indicates that we should receive a return on our investment in the long run despite losses in the initial years. The Vsper Operating Companies expect to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations through calendar 2003 as they expand operations and enter new markets, even if and after they achieve positive cash flows from operations in the initial operating markets. Vsper expects to commercially launch CDMA2000 1xEV DO services in December 2002. To date no long term funding commitments from other sources have been secured, and it is not clear whether future commitments from outside parties will be available. Furthermore, important regulatory and business issues have yet to be resolved. If these issues cannot be resolved in a prompt and reasonable manner, risks related to Vsper may increase, and we may incur significant losses. Specifically, if Vsper is unable to offer converged services, which includes full mobility, either by itself and or through other parties utilizing Vspers CDMA network, we may need to write down Vspers long lived assets. In that management believes there is currently a regulatory path to mobility and several partnership and or other potential means under which Vsper could offer mobile services, we believe that the assets are recoverable at this time. Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V. We have various financing arrangements, including a bridge loan facility, an equipment loan facility and an interim loan facility, with Pegaso Comunicaciones y Sistemas S.A. de C.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V., a CDMA wireless operating company in Mexico (collectively 50 Table of Contents referred to as Pegaso). On September 10, 2002, Telefnica Mviles (Telefnica) acquired a 65% controlling interest in Pegaso (the Close). The bridge facility was payable in full on October 31, 2001, was in default and was subject to a forbearance agreement at September 30, 2002. At September 30, 2002, $413 million was outstanding under the bridge loan facility, net of deferred interest and unearned fees. We stopped recognizing interest on the bridge loan facility effective at the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. Pegaso paid $435 million in full satisfaction of the bridge loan facility on November 8, 2002 (the Bridge Payment). The equipment loan facility and related financing were in default and subject to a forbearance agreement at September 30, 2002. At September 30, 2002, $318 million was outstanding under the equipment loan facility, net of deferred interest and unearned fees. The equipment loan facility was payable through December 31, 2007 and bears interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 4.5% (or LIBOR plus 6.5% when in default). We stopped recognizing interest on the equipment loan facility and related financing effective at the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. The terms of the equipment loan facility and related financing were modified, retroactive to September 10, 2002, upon receipt of the Bridge Payment and the satisfaction of other conditions. We will be required to use approximately $139 million of the bridge loan proceeds to purchase outstanding vendor debt owed by Pegaso to other lenders. Financing related to the equipment loan facility in the amount of $4 million will be payable in March 2003. The remaining equipment loan facility, including the acquired vendor debt, will be payable quarterly starting in March 2006 through December 2008 and will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1% for two years, LIBOR plus 3% for the next three years and LIBOR plus 6% thereafter. We recognized $0.5 million in interest income on the equipment loan facility during fiscal 2002 from the Close through fiscal year end at LIBOR plus 1%. During fiscal 2002, we provided to Pegaso $65 million of interim financing, including $5 million in capitalized fees, and $65 million of additional interim financing. Prior to the Close, a Pegaso shareholder purchased $25 million and $23 million participations in the interim and additional interim finance receivables, respectively, from us, and at Close, converted those portions of the interim and additional interim financings into equity in Pegaso. At September 30, 2002, $40 million and $42 million were outstanding under the interim and additional interim facilities, respectively. The interim and additional interim financing commitments were cancelled at Close, and the interim and additional interim finance receivables were repaid in full with interest on October 10, 2002. Also in connection with the Close, Telefnica paid $9 million to us in consideration for warrants to acquire equity in Pegaso at Close, and Pegaso paid $12 million to us in October 2002 related to certain fees and expense reimbursements. As a result of the Close, we recognized a total of $9 million in interest income in fiscal 2002. At September 30, 2002, finance and other receivables from Pegaso totaled $821 million, net of $45 million in deferred interest income that will be amortized over the remaining term of the equipment loan facility as an adjustment to yield. We received $90 million of this amount in October 2002 and an additional $295 million when the Bridge Payment was made in November 2002, excluding the $139 million portion of the Bridge Payment that will be used to acquire vendor debt. After receipt of the Bridge Payment, $436 million of the September 30, 2002 finance receivables remains, net of deferred interest. In the event that Pegaso were to initiate the commercialization of GSM or TDMA services in its spectrum, Pegaso would be obliged to prepay $285 million of that amount. Telefonica has recently indicated its intention to deploy GSM in Mexico. Our aggregate commitments to provide additional long term financing to Pegaso under our arrangements with Ericsson were $105 million as of September 30, 2002, subject to Pegaso meeting certain conditions. Of this amount, $9 million was cancelled when Pegaso made the Bridge Payment, and the remaining $96 million is no longer available to Pegaso as a result of a series of events that occurred in November 2002. We also had $4 million in other financing commitments to Pegaso as of September 30, 2002 that were cancelled when Pegaso made the Bridge Payment. Pegaso is at an early stage of development and may not be able to compete successfully. Competitors in Mexico have greater financial resources and more established operations than Pegaso. As is normal for early 51 Table of Contents stage wireless operators, Pegaso is experiencing significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. Based on current information and available evidence, including the acquisition of Pegaso by Telefnica, we believe that we will ultimately be able to collect the remaining long term financing from Pegaso. Failure to collect our finance receivables could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Leap Wireless International Inc. In fiscal 2000, we purchased 308,000 units of Leap Wireless International Inc.s (Leap Wireless) senior discount notes with detachable warrants for $150 million. The notes mature in April 2010 and bear interest at 14.5% payable beginning in 2005. In addition, we hold 489,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock and a warrant to purchase 3,375,000 shares of common stock issued to us in connection with our spin off of Leap Wireless in September 1998. During fiscal 2002, we determined that declines in the market values of our investments in Leap Wireless were other than temporary, as the market values of the investments had declined significantly during our third quarter of fiscal 2002 as a result of unfavorable developments in Leap Wireless business. As a result, we recorded $162 million and $18 million in other than temporary losses on marketable securities for the notes and stock, respectively, during fiscal 2002. We also recorded $59 million in losses related to changes in the fair values of Leap Wireless derivative investments for fiscal 2002. The remaining recorded values of Leap Wireless investments totaled $1 million at September 30, 2002. Under the terms of our senior secured credit facility with Leap Wireless, we are committed to fund up to $125 million in connection with Leap Wireless bid for PCS spectrum licenses in the FCCs Auction No. 35, however it appears unlikely that Leap Wireless will be able to use this credit facility. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies. Inquam Ltd In October 2000, we agreed to invest $200 million in the convertible preferred shares of Inquam Limited (Inquam). Inquam was formed to acquire, own, develop and manage wireless communications systems, either directly or indirectly, with the primary intent of deploying CDMA based technology. At September 30, 2002, our investment in Inquam was $114 million, net of equity in losses, and $27 million of the equity funding commitment was outstanding. Inquams management expects to meet certain operational milestones necessary for expansion of Inquams CDMA operations during 2003. In addition, Inquams management expects to raise additional funds over the next 12 months required for Inquam to realize the full value of its current operations. Remaining funding commitments from us and another investor are expected to be exhausted by March 2003. Total additional funding required by Inquam for calendar 2003 is estimated to be between $175 million and $195 million. If new investors cannot be found or should existing investors decide not to provide additional funding, or if Inquam does not promptly meet certain operational milestones necessary for expansion, Inquams growth potential and the value of our investment in Inquam may be negatively affected. Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001 Total revenues for fiscal 2002 were $3,040 million, compared to $2,680 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG Electronics, customers of both QCT and QTL, comprised an aggregate of 15%, 14% and 11% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2001, revenues from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG Electronics, comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total consolidated revenues, respectively. The percentages for Kyocera included 3% and 4% in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to services provided to Kyocera by employees from our terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold to Kyocera in February 2000. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2002 were $2,204 million, compared to $1,908 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2002 included $125 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding effective in November 2001 and $8 million related to the Globalstar business. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2001 included $54 million related to Globalstar. Excluding Vsper Holding and Globalstar, revenues from sales of equipment and services increased by $217 million. Revenues from sales of equipment and services increased $218 million in 52 Table of Contents our integrated circuits business, primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of MSM integrated circuits, and the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our 3G CDMA2000 1X integrated circuits products. Software development services revenues related to the QChat licensing agreement increased $34 million. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2002 were $836 million, compared to $772 million for fiscal 2001. QTL segment revenues from royalties paid by third parties increased $64 million. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2002 was $1,137 million, compared to $1,035 million for fiscal 2001. Cost of revenues for fiscal 2002 included $183 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding and $11 million related to our on going obligation to Globalstar. Cost of revenues for fiscal 2001 included $129 million related to Globalstar. Excluding Vsper Holding and Globalstar, cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 32% for fiscal 2002, compared to 35% for fiscal 2001. The margin improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X integrated circuits products and the increase in revenues from royalties in the QTL segment. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, royalties and license fees earned, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. For fiscal 2002, research and development expenses were $452 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $415 million or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2001. The dollar increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to $41 million in increased integrated circuit product initiatives to support high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multi band, multi network products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO, GSM/ GPRS, WCDMA and position location technologies and $14 million in increased QWBS research and development initiatives, partially offset by a $29 million reduction of development efforts related to the Globalstar business. For fiscal 2002, selling, general and administrative expenses were $509 million or 17% of revenues, compared to $367 million or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2002 included $107 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding. Excluding Vsper Holding, selling, general and administrative expenses comprised 14% of revenues. The dollar increase was primarily due to a $33 million increase in marketing and support efforts related to products and services of our QIS division, including the BREW product, $23 million associated with the expansion of our integrated circuit customer base and international business development activities, particularly in China, and $13 million resulting from the consolidation of Wireless Knowledge, Inc. (Wireless Knowledge), partially offset by a $22 million reduction in support efforts related to the Globalstar business and a $14 million reduction in bad debt expense. Amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets was $259 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $255 million in fiscal 2001. Amortization charges were primarily related to the acquisition of SnapTrack in March 2000. For fiscal 2002, asset impairment and related charges were less than $1 million, compared to $518 million of such charges in fiscal 2001. Asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2001 were comprised primarily of $519 million in charges resulting from managements determination that certain assets related to the Globalstar business were impaired. For fiscal 2002, other operating expenses were $9 million, compared to $51 million in fiscal 2001. Other operating expenses for fiscal 2002 resulted from the write down of a note receivable from a development stage CDMA carrier. Other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a $62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by $11 million in other income related to the irrevocable transfer of a portion of an FCC Auction Discount Voucher to a third party. Interest expense was $26 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $10 million for fiscal 2001. Interest expense for fiscal 2002 was primarily related to the long term debt of Vsper Holding. Interest expense for fiscal 2001 was primarily related to interest charges resulting from the arbitration decision made against us. 53 Table of Contents Net investment expense was $186 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $317 million for fiscal 2001. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2002 2001 Change Interest income: Corporate $ 102 $ 135 $ (33 ) QSI 33 108 (75 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate 11 (11 ) QSI 2 59 (57 ) Other than temporary losses on marketable securities (206 ) (147 ) (59 ) Other than temporary losses on other investments (24 ) (51 ) 27 Change in fair values of derivative investments (58 ) (243 ) 185 Minority interest in loss (income) of consolidated subsidiaries 52 (4 ) 56 Equity in losses of investees (87 ) (185 ) 98 $ (186 ) $ (317 ) $ 131 The decline in interest income on corporate cash and marketable debt securities was a result of lower interest rates. The decline in QSI interest income was a result of the cessation of interest income recognition on Pegaso debt facilities starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2001 and on Leap Wireless bonds starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2002 primarily related to $162 million and $18 million in losses on our investments in Leap Wireless bonds and common stock, respectively. We determined that the declines in fair values were other than temporary, as the market values of the bond and common stock had significantly declined during our third quarter of fiscal 2002 as a result of unfavorable developments in Leap Wireless business. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2001 primarily related to a $134 million loss on our investment in NetZero, Inc., which subsequently completed a merger with Juno Online Services, Inc. and became United Online, Inc. The change in fair values of derivative instruments primarily resulted from $59 million in losses resulting from declines in the price of Leap Wireless common stock, which reduced the fair values of our warrants to acquire Leap Wireless common stock. The warrants had insignificant value at September 30, 2002. Equity in losses of investees decreased as a result of the consolidation of Vsper Holding effective November 13, 2001, as these losses are now included in operations. For fiscal 2002 there were no other non operating charges, compared to $167 million in fiscal 2001. Other non operating charges in fiscal 2001 were primarily comprised of a $120 million write down of the note receivable from VeloCom to its fair value and $58 million in write downs of recorded values of a note receivable from Globalstar and warrants to acquire partnership interests in Globalstar to their estimated fair values. Income tax expense was $101 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $105 million for fiscal 2001. The annual effective tax rate was 22% for fiscal 2002, compared to a negative 23% rate for fiscal 2001. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2002 was lower than the statutory rate due to the reduction of deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance that was previously charged to tax expense, partially offset by foreign losses for which we are not recording a tax benefit. The fiscal 2001 effective tax rate was the result of pre tax losses for which no tax benefit was recorded and foreign tax expense. The annual effective tax rate on profits for fiscal 2002 cannot be meaningfully compared to the effective tax rate on losses for the prior fiscal year. We recorded an $18 million loss, net of taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles at September 30, 2000. The cumulative effect of the adoption of SAB 101 was a $147 million loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133. The gain resulting from the adoption of FAS 133 related primarily to the 54 Table of Contents unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock issued to us in connection with our spin off of Leap Wireless in September 1998. Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000 Total revenues for fiscal 2001 were $2,680 million, compared to $3,197 million for fiscal 2000. Revenue from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG, customers of both QCT and QTL, comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2000, Samsung accounted for 11% of total consolidated revenues. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2001 were $1,908 million, compared to $2,526 million for fiscal 2000. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2000 included $419 million in revenue related to the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold in February 2000. Excluding the revenue of the business sold in fiscal 2000, revenues from sales of equipment and services decreased by $199 million in fiscal 2001. The decrease was primarily related to a $310 million decline in revenues related to the business with Globalstar, offset by a $107 million increase in integrated circuit sales, largely attributed to higher unit shipments and average selling prices of MSM integrated circuits, and higher CSM infrastructure integrated circuit revenues and a $24 million increase in QWI revenue due to the implementation of SAB 101 in fiscal 2001. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2001 were $772 million, compared to $671 million for fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily related to a $149 million increase in royalties and license fees and a $16 million increase in software revenues, offset by a $64 million decrease due to the implementation of SAB 101 in fiscal 2001. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2001 was $1,035 million, compared to $1,507 million for fiscal 2000. Total cost of revenues for fiscal 2000 included $433 million in cost of revenues related to the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold in February 2000. Excluding the cost of revenues of the business sold in fiscal 2000, total cost of revenues decreased by $39 million in fiscal 2001, consistent with the decrease in revenues. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 39% for fiscal 2001 and 2000. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, royalties and license fees earned, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. For fiscal 2001, research and development expenses were $415 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $340 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2000. The dollar and percentage increases in research and development expenses were primarily due to $101 million in increased integrated circuit product initiatives to support high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multi band, multi network products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO, GSM/ GPRS, WCDMA and position location technologies, offset by a $44 million decrease in terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone products research and development as a result of exiting this business in February 2000. In addition, the percentage increase is attributed to a more significant reduction in revenue relative to research and development expenses as a result of the sale of the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business in February 2000. For fiscal 2001, selling, general and administrative expenses were $367 million or 14% of revenues, compared to $343 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2000. The dollar and percentage increases in selling, general and administrative expenses from fiscal 2000 were primarily due to $61 million associated with the expansion of international business activities in China, Japan, South Korea and Europe and trade show expenses related to the expansion of the integrated circuit customer base and product portfolio and $21 million related to the introduction of products and services by our QIS division, including our BREW product, offset by a $67 million decrease in expenses for terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone products as a result of the sale of the business in February 2000. In addition, the percentage increase is attributed to a more significant reduction in revenue relative to selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the sale of the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business in February 2000. 55 Table of Contents Amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets was $255 million for fiscal 2001, compared to $146 million in fiscal 2000. For fiscal 2001, no purchased in process technology was recorded, compared to $60 million in fiscal 2000. The increase in amortization in fiscal 2001 and the purchased in process technology charge in fiscal 2000 resulted from the acquisition of SnapTrack, Inc. (SnapTrack) in March 2000. For fiscal 2001, asset impairment and related charges were $518 million, compared to $46 million for fiscal 2000. Asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2001 were comprised primarily of $519 million in charges resulting from managements determination that certain assets related to the Globalstar business were impaired. Asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2000 were primarily related to the sale of the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business in February 2000. For fiscal 2001, other operating expenses were $51 million, compared to $32 million in fiscal 2000. Other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a $62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by $11 million in other income related to the irrevocable transfer of a portion of an FCC Auction Discount Voucher to a third party. Other operating expenses during fiscal 2000 were comprised primarily of employee termination and other costs related to the sale of the terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business in February 2000. Interest expense was $10 million for fiscal 2001, compared to $5 million for fiscal 2000. The increase was primarily related to interest charges resulting from an arbitration decision against us, offset by lower interest expense resulting from decreased bank borrowings. Net investment expense was $317 million for fiscal 2001, compared to net investment income of $446 million for fiscal 2000. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2001 2000 Change Interest income: Corporate $ 135 $ 108 $ 27 QSI 108 137 (29 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate 11 11 QSI 59 270 (211 ) Other than temporary losses on marketable securities (147 ) (147 ) Other than temporary losses on other investments (51 ) (51 ) Change in fair values of derivative investments (243 ) (243 ) Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries (4 ) (6 ) 2 Equity in losses of investees (185 ) (63 ) (122 ) $ (317 ) $ 446 $ (763 ) The increase in interest income on corporate cash and marketable debt securities was a result of higher average interest bearing balances. The decline in QSI interest income was primarily a result of the cessation of interest income recognition on Globalstar finance receivables in fiscal 2001. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2001 primarily related to a $134 million loss on our investments in Netzero, Inc, which subsequently completed a merger with Juno Online Services, Inc. and became United Online, Inc. The market value of our investment in United Online, Inc. was $38 million as of November 22, 2002, as compared to our adjusted cost basis of $10 million. We did not record any other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2000. The change in fair values of derivative instruments primarily resulted from $213 million in losses related to declines in the price of Leap Wireless common stock, which reduced the fair values of our warrants to acquire Leap Wireless common stock. Equity in losses of investees increased primarily as a result of an increase in the equity in losses of Vsper Holding in fiscal 2001. 56 Table of Contents There were no distributions on Trust Convertible Preferred Securities in fiscal 2001 due to the conversion of all remaining Trust Convertible Preferred Securities into common stock during fiscal 2000. We recorded $13 million in distributions for fiscal 2000. Other non operating charges were approximately $167 million in fiscal 2001, compared to $2 million in fiscal 2000. Other non operating charges in fiscal 2001 were primarily comprised of a $120 million write down of the note receivable from VeloCom to its fair value and $58 million in write downs of recorded values of a note receivable from Globalstar and warrants to acquire partnership interests in Globalstar to their estimated fair values. Income tax expense was $105 million for fiscal 2001, compared to $527 million for fiscal 2000. The annual effective tax rate was negative 23% for fiscal 2001, compared to a 46% rate for fiscal 2000. The estimated annual effective tax rate was negative primarily as a result of foreign taxes paid for which it is more likely than not we will not receive a tax benefit. The difference in the tax rate from the prior year is primarily due to the loss for fiscal 2001 resulting from certain asset impairment and related charges. We have provided a valuation allowance on substantially all of our deferred tax assets because of uncertainty regarding their realizability due to the expectation that deductions from future employee stock option exercises will exceed future taxable income. Our net deferred tax assets increased by $631 million in fiscal 2001, and the resulting increase in the valuation allowance was reflected in part as an increase to the tax expense and in part as a reduction of stockholders equity. The total expense related to the increase in the valuation allowance was $185 million. We recorded an $18 million loss, net of taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle at September 30, 2000. The cumulative effect of the adoption of SAB 101 was a $147 million loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133. The gain resulting from the adoption of FAS 133 related primarily to the unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock issued to us in connection with our spin off of Leap Wireless in September 1998. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001 QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT) QCT segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $1,591 million, compared to $1,365 million for fiscal 2001. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $441 million, compared to $306 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues and earnings before taxes increased primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of MSM integrated circuits and the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X products. Approximately 65 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 58 million for fiscal 2001. Approximately 10 million CSM infrastructure integrated circuits equivalent voice channels were sold during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 9 million for fiscal 2001. Both research and development and selling and marketing expenses were $22 million higher for fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 primarily associated with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives to support high speed wireless Internet access and multi band, multimode, multi network products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO, GSM/ GPRS, WCDMA and position location technologies. QCT inventories decreased by 27% during fiscal 2002 primarily as a result of strong demand for 1X products across our customer base and improved component availability. QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment (QTL) QTL segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $847 million, compared to $782 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues from royalties paid by third party licensees were $725 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $661 million in fiscal 2001. Revenues from license fees were $55 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $67 million in fiscal 2001. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $756 million, compared to $706 million for fiscal 2001. The increase in revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees resulting from higher demand for CDMA products across all major regions of 57 Table of Contents CDMA deployment. During fiscal 2002, we recognized $6 million in revenue related to equity received as consideration for license fees, compared to $7 million in fiscal 2001. QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Segment (QWI) QWI segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $439 million, compared to $426 million for fiscal 2001. Losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $9 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $33 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues increased primarily due to an increase in software development and services revenues related to our BREW products and QChat licensing agreement. Earnings before taxes decreased primarily due to a $35 million increase in our development, support and marketing efforts related to products and services of our QIS division, including the BREW product and a $14 million increase in QWBS research and development expenditures. We shipped approximately 46,000 OmniTRACS and other related communications systems during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 43,000 in fiscal 2001. QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives Segment (QSI) QSI segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $126 million, primarily related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding. QSI segment losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $507 million, compared to $1,125 million for fiscal 2001. The decrease in losses was primarily due to $568 million in charges incurred in fiscal 2001 related to Globalstar. During fiscal 2002, we recorded a $130 million loss, net of minority interest, due to the consolidation of Vsper Holding and $30 million of equity losses in the Vsper Operating Companies (pre acquisition) and VeloCom, as compared with $150 million of equity losses for the Vsper Operating Companies in fiscal 2001. During fiscal 2002, we recorded $180 million in other than temporary losses on Leap Wireless marketable securities, compared to an $11 million realized gain in fiscal 2001. We also recorded $59 million in losses related to changes in the fair values of Leap Wireless derivative investments in fiscal 2002, compared to $213 million in losses in fiscal 2001. Losses on Leap Wireless derivative investments resulted from declines in the market price of Leap Wireless common stock during those fiscal years. During fiscal 2001, we recorded a $120 million charge to write down a note receivable from VeloCom to its fair value as a result of the reorganization of the Vsper Operating Companies initiated during fiscal 2001. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $3,176 million at September 30, 2002, an increase of $596 million from September 30, 2001. The increase during fiscal 2002 was primarily the result of $968 million in cash provided by operating activities, $120 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, $16 million in collections on notes receivable, $10 million in proceeds received from Vsper Holdings minority interest shareholders and $9 million in proceeds received from the sale of other investments, partially offset by $321 million in cash used for other investments and acquisitions, $142 million in capital expenditures, an $81 million decrease in the fair values of marketable securities and $6 million of cash used to purchase our shares. We expect Vsper Holding to require approximately $60 to $70 million in cash funding during the first six months of fiscal 2003. Accounts receivable increased by 4% during fiscal 2002. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in revenues and the consolidation of Vsper Holding receivables, partially offset by the timing of cash receipts for royalty receivables. Excluding Vsper Holding receivables and revenues, days sales outstanding, using a daily three month rolling average, were 53 days at September 30, 2002 compared to 72 days at September 30, 2001. The change in days sales outstanding is consistent with the increase in revenue and improved cash collections resulting in the accounts receivable balance remaining relatively unchanged. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on current business plans, including investments in other companies and other assets to support the growth of our business, financing for customers of CDMA infrastructure products in accordance with the agreements with Ericsson, financing under agreements with CDMA telecommunications carriers, and other commitments. We 58 Table of Contents intend to continue our strategic investment activities to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and the growth of CDMA based wireless data and wireless Internet products. As part of these investment activities, we may provide financing to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment by authorized suppliers. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources including potential debt and equity issuance. At September 30, 2002, our outstanding commitments included (in millions): Long term financing under Ericsson arrangement (excluding Pegaso) $ 368 Senior credit facility with Leap Wireless(a) 125 Pegaso: Commitment to acquire long term financing to be provided by Ericsson 105 Other 4 Equity investments: Inquam 27 Other 30 Other debt commitments 6 Total debt and equity commitments 665 Long term purchase commitments(b) 71 Operating leases(b) 124 Other 3 Total $ 863 (a) Under the terms of our senior secured credit facility with Leap Wireless, we are committed to fund up to $125 million in connection with Leap Wireless bid for PCS spectrum licenses in the FCCs Auction No. 35, however it appears unlikely that Leap Wireless will be able to use this credit facility. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies. (b) Information regarding our long term purchase commitments and operating leases at September 30, 2002 is provided in the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies. The majority of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates, and the expected funding dates cannot be forecast. At September 30, 2002, commitments to extend long term financing to certain CDMA customers of Ericsson totaled approximately $473 million. The commitment to fund $346 million of this amount expires on November 6, 2003. The funding of the remaining $127 million, if it occurs, is not subject to a fixed expiration date, however, on November 12, 2002, $9 million of this commitment was cancelled. The financing commitments are subject to the CDMA customers meeting conditions prescribed in the financing arrangements and, in certain cases, to Ericsson also financing a portion of such sales and services. Such financing is generally collateralized by the related equipment. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed under these arrangements; actual financing may be in lesser amounts. Financing provided by us to Pegaso included $203 million funded under these commitments with Ericsson. Financing provided by us to the Vsper Operating Companies included $108 million funded under these commitments. All other financings made related to these commitments were repaid prior to September 30, 2002. The Inquam equity investment commitment is expected to be funded by March 2003, and the remaining equity commitments are expected to be funded through fiscal 2009. Our existing commitments over the next 12 months related to long term purchase commitments (including capital expenditures), future minimum operating lease payments, capital leases and long term debt total $70 million. We expect Vsper Holding to require approximately $60 to $70 million in cash funding during the first six months of fiscal 2003, including license payments. 59 Table of Contents In December 2001, we agreed to invest up to $200 million in exchange for up to 4% of the common shares of Reliance Infocomm Limited (RIL), formerly Reliance Communications Limited, a wireless carrier in India. RIL intends to construct and operate a CDMA commercial network deploying CDMA2000 1X technology to provide basic telephone services, Wireless Local Loop (WLL) with limited mobility, national long distance and international long distance services in India. Our obligation to make this investment became subject to termination during fiscal 2002 because RIL failed to meet certain milestones. However, we may purchase the shares upon RILs completion of certain closing conditions. If we complete the investment, funding is likely to occur through September 2003. At September 30, 2002, we had not purchased any shares related to this agreement. Information regarding our other financial commitments at September 30, 2002 is provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 Investments in Other Entities, Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies and Note 13 Acquisitions. Future Accounting Requirements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (FAS 141), Business Combinations, and No. 142 (FAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. FAS 141 supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 16, Business Combinations. The provisions of FAS 141 (1) require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, (2) provide specific criteria for the initial recognition and measurement of intangible assets apart from goodwill, and (3) require that unamortized negative goodwill be written off immediately as an extraordinary gain instead of being deferred and amortized. FAS 141 also requires that, upon adoption of FAS 142, we reclassify the carrying amounts of certain intangible assets into or out of goodwill, based on certain criteria. FAS 142 supersedes APB 17, Intangible Assets, and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. FAS 142 primarily addresses the accounting for goodwill and intangible assets subsequent to their initial recognition. The provisions of FAS 142 (1) prohibit the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, (2) require that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets be tested annually for impairment (and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill and or indefinite lived intangible assets may be impaired), (3) require that reporting units be identified for the purpose of assessing potential impairments of goodwill, and (4) remove the forty year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite lives. FAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested at least annually for impairment using a two step process. The first step (Step 1) is to identify a potential impairment and, in transition, this step must be measured as of the beginning of the fiscal year. However, a company has six months from the date of adoption to complete this step. The second step of the goodwill impairment test measures the amount of the impairment loss (measured as of the beginning of the year of adoption), if any, and must be completed by the end of fiscal 2003. Any impairment loss resulting from the transitional impairment tests would be reflected as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter 2003. We will adopt the provisions of FAS 142 in our first quarter of fiscal 2003. We have determined our reporting units and the amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, other assets and liabilities allocable to those reporting units and have completed our Step 1 analysis. Based on our Step 1 analysis, the adoption of FAS 142 does not have a material impact on our financial position. We will no longer record goodwill amortization starting in fiscal 2003. We recorded $248 million, $244 million and $141 million in goodwill amortization expense during fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In August 2001, the FASB issued FAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. FAS 144 replaces FAS 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of. The FASB issued FAS 144 to establish a single accounting model, based on the framework established in FAS 121, as FAS 121 did not address the accounting for a segment of a business accounted for as a discontinued operation under APB 30, Reporting The Results of Operations Reporting The Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions. FAS 144 also resolves significant implementation issues related to FAS 121. 60 Table of Contents Companies are required to adopt FAS 144 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, but early adoption is permitted. We will adopt FAS 144 as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. We do not expect the adoption of FAS 144 to have a material impact on our operating results and financial position. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Market Risk. We have fixed income securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities. During fiscal 2002, we invested $300 million in diversified portfolios of non investment grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers, which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our investment grade fixed income portfolios. A portion of these bonds are designated as trading securities. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. (See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about investments in marketable debt securities.) Finance receivables bear interest at both fixed and variable rates (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about finance receivables). Interest earned on certain finance receivables is at variable interest rates and is affected by changes in the general level of United States interest rates and or LIBOR. Fair values will vary as interest rates change. We have other notes receivable from third parties included in other assets. These facilities bear interest at variable rates. Interest earned on credit facilities included in other assets is affected by changes in the LIBOR index rate, and fair value will vary as interest rates change. The following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For our fixed income investment portfolio, finance receivables and credit facilities in other assets, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average yield at cost and contractual interest rates for fixed income securities and finance receivables or other credit facilities, respectively, by expected maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rate (Dollars in millions) No Single Fair 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Maturity Total Value Fixed income securities $ 295 $ 548 $ 209 $ 61 $ 51 $ 230 $ 296 $ 1,690 $ 1,692 Interest rate 4.1 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 4.8 % 6.4 % 9.3 % 4.0 % Finance receivables: Fixed rate $ 392 $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ 148 $ $ 543 $ 533 Interest rate 0.5 % 8.9 % 8.0 % 0.3 % Variable rate (LIBOR) $ $ $ $ 85 $ 113 $ 141 $ $ 339 $ 293 Margin over LIBOR 5.9 % 6.1 % 5.6 % Notes receivable in other assets: Fixed rate $ 12 $ 27 $ $ $ $ 4 $ $ 43 $ 41 Interest rate 7.8 % 7.5 % 0.0 % Variable rate (LIBOR) $ 24 $ $ $ $ 1 $ 25 $ $ 50 $ 9 Margin over LIBOR 12.8 % 1.9 % 0.0 % We consolidate all assets and liabilities of the Vsper Operating Companies, including bank loans and capital lease obligations. Bank loans totaled $66 million at September 30, 2002, of which $16 million is payable in fiscal 2005 and $50 million is payable in fiscal 2006. The bank loans bear interest at variable rates, based on the Certificate of Deposit Inter Bank (CDI) rate (the LIBOR rate equivalent in Brazil) plus 1.5%. Capital lease obligations totaled $42 million at September 30, 2002. The aggregate maturities on the capital 61 Table of Contents lease obligations over the next three years from fiscal 2003 through 2005 are $14 million, $22 million and $6 million, respectively. The capital lease obligations bear interest at fixed interest rates, ranging from 11.25% to 14.5%. The fair values of bank loans and capital lease obligations will change as interest rates change. Interest expense will be affected by changes in the CDI. Equity Price Market Risk. We hold marketable securities and derivative instruments subject to equity price risk. Available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments recorded at fair value under FAS 115 and FAS 133, respectively, subject us to equity price risk. The recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $155 million at September 30, 2002 from $122 million at September 30, 2001. As of September 30, 2002, one equity position constituted approximately 71% of the fair value of the marketable securities portfolio. The recorded value of derivative instruments subject to FAS 133 at September 30, 2002 was $1 million. We generally invest in companies in the high technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. The portfolios concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the portfolios price volatility. We received a warrant in connection with the Leap Wireless spin off to purchase Leap Wireless common stock at $6.11 per share. At September 30, 2002, we were entitled to purchase 3,375,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our accounting policy for this instrument). The warrants remaining value at September 30, 2002 was insignificant, as compared to the $49 million value at September 2001. The estimated fair value of the warrant is directly correlated to movements in the price of the Leap Wireless common stock. The warrant is held for purposes other than trading. During fiscal 2002, we recorded $59 million in losses on derivative instruments, primarily related to this warrant. We strategically invest in companies in the high technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. During fiscal 2002 and 2001, many high technology stocks experienced significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair values of our available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments. Investment concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the overall price volatility. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at September 30, 2002 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities. Our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments accounted for under the equity and cost methods that are predominantly closely held and not publicly traded. These investments are held for purposes other than trading. Accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. Additionally, we do not anticipate any near term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in managements objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. Foreign Exchange Market Risk. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts. Derivative financial instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 30, 2002, no foreign currency forward contracts were outstanding. Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. 62 Table of Contents We are exposed to foreign exchange risk related to our consolidation of the Vsper Operating Companies. We report our financial statements in U.S. dollars. The Vsper Operating Companies account for the majority of their transactions in Brazilian real, and their results are translated into U.S. dollars during and at the end of the fiscal quarter. In addition, the Vsper Operating Companies capital lease commitments are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, a significant change in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real could have a material effect on the Vsper Operating Companies and on us. A significant devaluation of the Brazilian real has occurred in the past and may occur again the future. At September 30, 2002, a 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Brazilian real would result in a decrease in net income of approximately $16 million for the year ended September 30, 2002. Finance receivables and notes receivable from international carriers that do not use the United States dollar as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk. Because our financing is dollar denominated, any significant change in the value of the dollar against the debtors functional currencies could result in an increase in the debtors cash flow requirements and could thereby affect our ability to collect our receivables. At September 30, 2002, finance receivables from international customers totaled $817 million. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
