Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our consolidated financial data includes SnapTrack, Inc., Vsper Holding Ltd. and other consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We design, manufacture and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on CDMA and other technologies. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from license fees and royalties from our intellectual property, from services and related hardware sales and from software development and related services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services revenues, research and development, selling, general and administrative, amortization of acquisition related intangible assets, and asset impairment charges. Our QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT) segment is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications and global positioning system products. QCT software products are the interface link between the operating system that controls the phone and the functionality embedded in our integrated circuit products. QCT products are sold to many of the worlds leading wireless phone and infrastructure manufacturers. QCT revenues comprised 61%, 52% and 51% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) segment grants licenses to use our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of CDMA (including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1x EV DO/1xEV DV, TD SCDMA and WCDMA) products. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating our intellectual property. QTL revenues comprised 25%, 28% and 29% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our QUALCOMM Wireless Internet (QWI) segment, which includes QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions (QWBS), QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) and QUALCOMM Digital Media (QDM), generates revenue primarily through mobile communication products and services, software, and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QWBS provides satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging and position reporting services to transportation companies, private fleets and construction equipment fleets. QIS provides the BREW product and services for the development and over the air CDMA deployment of data services on wireless devices. QIS also provides QChat, which enables virtually instantaneous push to talk functionality on CDMA wireless devices. The QDM division is comprised of the Government Systems and Digital Cinema businesses. The Government Systems business provides development, hardware and analytical expertise to United States government agencies involving wireless communications technologies. The Digital Cinema business develops technologies to support the processing, transmission and management of content for a variety of media applications, including the delivery of digitized motion pictures. QWI revenues comprised 12%, 14% and 16% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives (QSI) segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications. Our strategy has been to invest in CDMA operators, licensed device manufacturers and start up companies that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess unique capabilities or technology to promote Internet data communications. QSIs revenues relate primarily to the consolidation of our investment in Vsper Holding. QSI revenues comprised 3% and 4% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. QSI did not generate revenues in 2001. Global economic weakness can have wide ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network operators. The wireless communications industry recently appears to be recovering from an industry wide recession. We cannot predict whether a recovery will continue, the rate of such recovery, or what effects negative events, such as war, may have on the economy. Further, an economic recovery may not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. To increase our revenues and market share in future periods, we are dependent 39 Table of Contents upon the adoption and commercial deployment of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our CDMA technology. Although network operators have commercially deployed CDMA2000 1X, we cannot predict the timing or success of other commercial deployments. If existing deployments are not commercially successful, or if new commercial deployments of CDMA2000 1X are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. This competition may result in reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products generally result in reduced average royalties. While pricing pressures resulting from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will occur. We will continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. If we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, then we may not be able to maintain an acceptable rate of growth in our business. Revenues from customers in South Korea, the United States, and Japan comprised 43%, 22% and 15%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003, as compared to 37%, 30%, and 18%, respectively, in fiscal 2002, and 35%, 35% and 22%, respectively, in fiscal 2001. We distinguish revenue from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. The increase in revenues from customers in South Korea, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to higher chipset sales to phone manufacturers in South Korea who have leading CDMA market share in South Korea and worldwide. The decrease in revenues from customers in the United States and Japan, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to overall increases in revenues in geographic regions other than the United States and Japan. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, adequacy of allowances for doubtful accounts, valuation of intangible assets and investments, income taxes, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from royalties, from messaging and other services and related hardware sales, from software development and related services, and from license fees for intellectual property. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but it is possible that actual results may differ from our estimates. In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements which we adopted in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 and applied retroactively to the first quarter of fiscal 2001. We recognized $44 million, $66 million and $95 million during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, in operating income related to revenue and expense that were recognized in prior years. 40 Table of Contents In November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued Issue No. 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables which we adopted in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. This issue addresses determination of whether an arrangement involving more than one deliverable contains more than one unit of accounting and how arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. Beginning with the adoption of SAB 101 until the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we recognized revenues and expenses from sales of certain satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging and position reporting hardware and related software products by our QWBS division ratably over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the hardware product or the expected messaging service period, which is typically five years. SAB 101 required the ratable recognition of these sales because the messaging service was considered integral to the functionality of the hardware and software. Because EITF Issue No. 00 21 does not require the deferral of revenue when an undelivered element is considered integral to the functionality of a delivered element and because EITF Issue No. 00 21 otherwise requires separate unit accounting, we began recognizing revenues and expenses from such sales starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 at the time of shipment, or when title and risk of loss pass to the customer and other criteria for revenue recognition are met, if later. We have elected to adopt EITF Issue No. 00 21 prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into after the third quarter of fiscal 2003, rather than reporting the change in accounting as a cumulative effect adjustment. As a result, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we recognized certain revenue and related cost of sales for QWBS equipment sales upon shipment, while continuing to amortize unearned revenue and cost of sales, with an $11 million gross margin effect, for units shipped in prior periods. Deferred revenues and expenses related to the historical QWBS sales that will continue to be amortized in future periods were $183 million and $102 million, respectively, at September 30, 2003. Gross margin related to these prior sales is expected to be recognized as follows: $37 million in fiscal 2004, $24 million in fiscal 2005, $13 million in fiscal 2006, $6 million in fiscal 2007 and $1 million in fiscal 2008. We license rights to use our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of CDMA (including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1x EV DO/1xEV DV, TD SCDMA and WCDMA) products. Licensees typically pay a non refundable license fee in one or more installments and on going royalties based on their sales of products incorporating our intellectual property. License fees are generally recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We recognize royalty revenue as earned when reasonable estimates of such amounts can be made. Revenues from sales of our CDMA based integrated circuits are recognized at the time of shipment, or when title and risk of loss pass to the customer and other criteria for revenue recognition are met, if later. Revenues from providing services are recorded when earned. Revenues from long term contracts are generally recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting, based on costs incurred compared with total estimated costs. The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total contract revenue and costs. Revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are charged or credited to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. If actual contract costs are greater than expected, reduction of contract profit would be required. Billings on uncompleted contracts in excess of incurred cost and accrued profits are classified as unearned revenue. Estimated contract losses are recognized when determined. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance exists or the contracts duration is relatively short, we use the completed contract method. Revenues from software license fees are recognized when all of the following criteria are met: the written agreement is executed; the software is delivered; the license fee is fixed and determinable; collectibility of the license fee is probable; and if applicable, when vendor specific objective evidence exists to allocate the total license fee to elements of multiple element arrangements, including post contract customer support. When contracts contain multiple elements wherein vendor specific objective evidence exists for all undelivered elements, we recognize revenue for the delivered elements and defer revenue for the fair value of the undelivered elements until the remaining obligations have been satisfied. If vendor specific objective evidence does not exist for all undelivered elements, revenue for the delivered and undelivered elements is deferred until remaining obligations have been satisfied, or if the only undelivered element is post contract customer support, revenue is recognized ratably over the support period. Significant judgments and estimates are made in connection with the recognition of software license revenue, including assessments of collectibility and the fair values of deliverable elements. The amount or timing of our software license revenue may differ as a result of changes in these judgments or estimates. 41 Table of Contents Unearned revenue consists primarily of fees related to software products and license fees for intellectual property for which delivery is not yet complete and to hardware products sales with a continuing service obligation. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We consider the following factors when determining if collection of a fee is reasonably assured: customer credit worthiness, past transaction history with the customer, current economic industry trends and changes in customer payment terms. If we have no previous experience with the customer, we typically obtain reports from various credit organizations to ensure that the customer has a history of paying its creditors. We may also request financial information, including financial statements or other documents (e.g., bank statements) to ensure that the customer has the means of making payment. If these factors do not indicate collection is reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. We also maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of entities we have financed to make required payments. We evaluate the adequacy of allowances for doubtful finance and note receivables based on analyses of the financed entities credit worthiness, current economic trends or market conditions, review of the entities current and projected financial and operational information, and consideration of the fair value of collateral to be received, if applicable. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. If the financial condition of the financed entities were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions and other factors. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority strategic investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing a publicly traded investment for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, the performance of the investees stock price in relation to the stock price of its competitors within the industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority strategic investments in private companies whose values are difficult to determine. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing investments in private companies for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the share price from the investees latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the investees revenue and cost trends, the liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate and market acceptance of the investees products and services. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. We also consider new products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any significant news that has been released specific to the 42 Table of Contents investee or the investees competitors and or industry and the outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Income Taxes Our income tax provision is based on calculations and assumptions that will be subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Should the actual results differ from our estimates, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. Tax law and rate changes are reflected in the income tax provision in the period in which such changes are enacted. We reversed approximately $1.1 billion of our valuation allowance on substantially all of our United States deferred tax assets during fiscal 2003 as a credit to stockholders equity. We now believe that we will more likely than not have sufficient taxable income after stock option deductions to utilize our deferred tax assets. We continue to provide a valuation allowance on substantially all of our foreign deferred tax assets because of uncertainty regarding their realization due to a history of losses from operations. We can only use our capital losses and capital loss carrybacks or carryforwards to offset capital gains. We expect that our future capital gains will be sufficient to utilize the capital losses that we have incurred through fiscal 2002. Beginning in fiscal 2003, we have provided a valuation allowance for new deferred tax assets related to capital loss items through our statement of operations. We expect that any additional capital losses in future years will also require the provision of a valuation allowance through the statement of operations, if we are unable to generate sufficient future capital gains to utilize these additional capital losses through our tax planning strategies. If capital losses are utilized and any portion of the valuation allowance is removed, the release would be accounted for as a reduction of the income tax provision. We consider the operating earnings of non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Should we repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the decision to repatriate earnings of foreign subsidiaries is made. Litigation We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Licensing We grant licenses to use our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of CDMA (including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO/1xEV DV, TD SCDMA and WCDMA) products. Licensees typically pay a non refundable license fee in one or more installments and on going royalties based on their sales of products incorporating our intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We earn royalties on CDMA products sold worldwide by our licensees in the period that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed until the subsequent quarter and, in some instances, payment is on a semi annual basis. Therefore, we estimate the royalty revenues from certain licensees (the Estimated Licensees) in the current quarter when reasonable estimates of such amounts can be made. Not all royalties earned are estimated. Royalties for licensees for which we have minimal history and certain licensees that do not buy our integrated circuit products are recorded one quarter in arrears when they are reported to us by those licensees. Estimates of royalty revenues for the Estimated Licensees are based on analyses of our sales of integrated circuits to our Estimated Licensees, historical royalty data by Estimated Licensee, the relationship between the timing of our sales of integrated circuits to our Estimated Licensees and our Estimated Licensees sales of CDMA products, average sales price forecasts, and current market and economic trends. Once royalty reports are received from the 43 Table of Contents Estimated Licensees, the variance between such reports and the estimate is recorded in royalty revenue in the period the reports are received. The recognition of this variance in most cases lags the royalty estimate by one quarter. The following table summarizes royalty related data for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 (in millions): Fiscal Year 2003 2002 2001 Components of royalty revenues Estimate at end of prior year* $ 150 $ 122 $ 100 Royalties reported in first quarter related to prior year estimate 167 146 133 Variance included in current year revenues 17 24 33 Other royalties reported in current year 670 551 506 Estimate at year end 151 150 122 Total royalty revenues from licensees $ 838 $ 725 $ 661 * This amount is the estimate for the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal year. For example, for fiscal 2002, we estimated royalties of $150 million from the Estimated Licensees for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. The actual royalties reported to us by the Estimated Licensees, on a one quarter lag basis, during the first quarter of fiscal 2003 were $167 million. The variance of $17 million was recorded in royalty revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Therefore, total royalty revenues from licensees for fiscal 2003 of $838 million included: 1) the variance of $17 million, 2) other royalties reported during fiscal 2003 of $670 million, and 3) the estimate made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 of $151 million based upon Estimated Licensees estimated sales during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, which we believe will be reported by the Estimated Licensees in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Strategic Investments and Financing Our QSI segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications. In general, we enter into strategic relationships with CDMA wireless operators and developers of innovative technologies or products for the wireless communications industry. As part of the agreement to sell our infrastructure equipment business to Ericsson in 1999, we have provided equipment financing to customers of Ericsson on a shared basis with respect to Ericssons sale of CDMA infrastructure. Due to financial and competitive challenges facing CDMA wireless operators, we cannot assure you that our investments will generate financial returns or that they will result in increased adoption or continued use of CDMA technologies. Domestic and international CDMA wireless operators to whom we have provided financing have limited operating histories, are faced with significant capital requirements, are highly leveraged and or have limited financial resources. If these CDMA wireless operators are not successful, we may have to write down our investments in or loans to these wireless operators. Our QSI segment maintains strategic holdings of various issuers and types. These securities include available for sale equity securities and derivative investments that are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. We strategically invest in companies in the high technology industry and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our exposure to market risks in these investments. Available for sale equity securities and derivative investments recorded at fair value subject us to equity price risk. The fair values of these strategic investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market price volatility. Our strategic investments in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect price volatility. In general, our investments in available for sale equity securities and derivative investments suffered significant decreases in market value during the last three years. Downward fluctuations and market trends could further adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the realizable value of these securities and derivative investments is subject to market and other conditions. QSI also makes strategic investments in privately held companies, including early stage companies and venture funds. These investments are recorded at cost or under the equity method, but the recorded values may be written down due to changes in the companies conditions or prospects. These strategic investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products the investees are developing may never materialize. As a result, we could 44 Table of Contents lose all or a portion of our investments in these companies, which could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. Most of these strategic investments will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. To the extent such investments become liquid and meet strategic and price objectives, we may sell the investments and recognize the realized gain (loss) in investment income (expense). We regularly monitor and evaluate the realizable value of our investments in both marketable and private securities. If events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of these assets has occurred and is other than temporary, we will record a charge to investment income (expense). During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, we recognized $138 million, $230 million and $198 million, respectively, in charges related to other than temporary losses on marketable and private securities. In some cases, we make strategic investments that require us to consolidate or record our equity in the losses of early stage companies. The consolidation of these losses can adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to the investments. From time to time, we may accept an equity interest in a licensee as consideration for a portion or all of the license fee payable under our CDMA license agreement. We record license fee revenue based on the fair value of the equity instruments received, if determinable. The measurement date for determination of fair value is the earlier of the date at which a performance commitment is made or the date at which the performance is complete. The evaluation procedures used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, examining the current market price for the shares if the licensee is publicly traded, examining recent rounds of financing and the licensees business plan if not publicly traded, and performing other due diligence procedures. This equity program does not affect the licensees obligations to pay royalties under their CDMA license agreements. The amount of cash consideration and the timing of revenue recognition vary depending on the terms of each agreement. As of September 30, 2003, ten licensees have participated in this program. We recognized $5 million, $6 million and $7 million of revenue in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to equity received as consideration for license fees. Vsper Holding, Ltd. In fiscal 1999, we acquired an ownership interest in Vsper So Paulo S.A. and Vsper S.A. (the Vsper Operating Companies or collectively, Vsper). The Vsper Operating Companies were formed by a consortium of investors to provide fixed wireless and wireline telephone services in the northern, northeast and eastern regions of Brazil and in the state of So Paulo. In addition, we extended long term financing to Vsper in fiscal 2000. In November 2001, we consummated a series of transactions resulting in an overall financial restructuring (the Restructuring) of the Vsper Operating Companies, which resulted in our obtaining a controlling financial interest in Vsper. Pursuant to the Restructuring, we invested $266 million, and VeloCom, Inc. (VeloCom) invested $80 million, in a newly formed holding company called Vsper Holding, Ltd. (Vsper Holding). Vsper Holding acquired certain liabilities of the Vsper Operating Companies from their vendors for $135 million and the issuance of warrants to purchase an approximate 7% interest in Vsper Holding, and the vendors released in full any claims that they might have against us, VeloCom, Vsper, its direct and indirect parent companies and other related parties arising from or related to the acquired liabilities. In a series of related transactions, Vsper Holding agreed to contribute the acquired liabilities to the Vsper Operating Companies in exchange for equity securities and to cancel the contributed liabilities. On November 29, 2001, we forgave $119 million under our debt facility with VeloCom. We also converted our remaining $56 million convertible promissory note into equity securities of VeloCom in conjunction with our acquisition of Vsper Holding. The conversion increased our equity interest in VeloCom to 49.9%. We used the equity method to account for our investment in VeloCom. On July 2, 2003, we transferred to VeloCom all of our equity interest in VeloCom in exchange for (a) 49.9% of the shares of Vsper Holding held by VeloCom, which represented approximately 11.9% of the issued and outstanding shares of Vsper Holding, and (b) elimination of VeloComs minority consent rights with respect to Vsper Holding. We recorded a net loss of $7 million on the exchange resulting primarily from the recognition of cumulative translation losses, previously included in stockholders equity, in the statement of operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. After giving effect to the exchange, we own an approximate 83.9% direct interest in Vsper Holding and hold no continuing interest in VeloCom at September 30, 2003. On November 19, 2002, we won bids to acquire personal mobile service (SMP) licenses in the state of So Paulo (excluding So Paulo metro), the state of Minas Gerais, and in the Northeast region of Brazil. Approximately $8 million of the approximate $82 million purchase price for the SMP licenses was paid in December 2002. The 45 Table of Contents remaining Brazilian real denominated obligation is financed by the Brazilian government at an interest rate of 12% per annum, plus an adjustment for inflation, payable in six equal annual installments starting in fiscal 2006. At September 30, 2003, the outstanding license fee obligation was approximately $111 million, having increased as a result of accrued interest and the strengthening of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar. Due to a series of adverse regulatory developments that negatively affected Vspers prospects, we are pursuing an expedited exit strategy whereby Vsper and or its assets will be sold or otherwise disposed of. In accordance with this strategy, on September 25, 2003, Embratel Participaes S.A. (Embratel) entered into an agreement to acquire from us for nominal consideration the Vsper Operating Companies (the Embratel sale transaction), excluding the tower and rooftop antennae assets and related property leases (Tower Sites). Concurrent with the closing, Vsper will enter into a multi year arrangement whereby it pays a monthly fee to us to use the Tower Sites. The sum of these fees, net of certain pass through expenses, is expected to exceed $77 million over the life of the arrangement. The SMP licenses also are not included in the Embratel sale transaction, except for a right of first refusal of Embratel to purchase the SMP licenses in the event of a sale to a third party or return of the SMP licenses to Anatel, the telecommunications regulatory agency in Brazil. We are evaluating our options with respect to the SMP licenses, including a possible return of the licenses to Anatel. The closing of the Embratel sale transaction is contingent upon a number of events being completed prior to or concurrent with closing. The status of certain of these items follows: Regulatory Approval. Regulatory approval from Anatel, which was requested on October 14, 2003, is required before a sale can be consummated. We anticipate a response within approximately 60 days. Vsper Bank Forbearance. On September 15, 2003, we and Vsper entered into an agreement with local bank creditors of and lessors to Vsper (the Vsper Banks) concerning Vspers defaults under secured bank loans and leases with such creditors, which defaults occurred and have been continuing since May, 2003. Pursuant to this agreement, the Vsper Banks waived existing defaults and agreed to forbear from exercising any remedies under the loans and leases, including forbearing from calling for payment in full of all amounts due under such loans and leases until December 15, 2003. The Brazilian real equivalent of approximately $85 million was outstanding under such loans and leases at September 30, 2003. Notwithstanding the respective waiver and forbearance from the Vsper Banks, the Vsper Operating Companies were charged a 2% default penalty and are continuing to charge an additional 1% in interest per month on the amount in default. The bank loans and leases that are in default are presented on our balance sheet as current liabilities at September 30, 2003. Vsper Bank Settlement and Release. The Vsper Banks also agreed to discharge all outstanding loans and leases, including default penalties and interest accrued on such amounts, settle all outstanding claims and grant a full and complete release for all obligations with respect to such loans and leases in exchange for a payment of approximately $46.6 million concurrent with the consummation of the Embratel sale transaction. Bell Canada International (BCI), a former shareholder in Vsper and a guarantor of a portion of the Vsper Banks outstanding loans and leases to Vsper, is expected to fund $12 million of this amount. On October 7, 2003, BCI received the requisite court order to perform its obligations under agreements in connection with payment of the $12 million settlement, as required under the liquidation laws governing BCI in Canada. Tower Usage Agreement. In connection with the Embratel sale transaction, the Vsper Operating Companies will enter into a 10 year tower usage rights agreement, with two consecutive 5 year renewal options, to use specified amounts of space on the Tower Sites that we will retain. We will have the ability to sell some or all of our interests in the Tower Sites and assign the associated rights under this usage rights agreement. Funding. We are required to provide $6 million in interim funding to Vsper on, or prior to, closing of the Embratel sale transaction. Given the uncertainty associated with the closing contingencies, we have not presented the Vsper related assets and liabilities as held for sale in our September 30, 2003 balance sheet. Further, we do not expect to present Vspers historical operations as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations in future financial statements because of our expectation of a continuing involvement in the Vsper business by way of an on going tower usage arrangement. In the near term, prior to the close of the Embratel sale transaction, Vsper will 46 Table of Contents continue to operate its existing fixed wireless and wireline network. Vsper will continue to undertake significant cost cutting measures to preserve the value of its core assets and existing business while reducing cash expenditures. As a result of adverse regulatory developments, and after an evaluation of the potential acquirers and the valuations that they may ascribe to Vsper given the regulatory situation, we recorded a $160 million impairment loss on our long lived assets related to Vsper during the second quarter of fiscal 2003. The impairment loss recognized was the difference between the assets carrying values and their estimated fair values at that date. At September 30, 2003, the carrying values of assets and liabilities related to Vsper totaled $265 million and $307 million, respectively. Assuming the requisite government approvals are received and all conditions to close are satisfied, we anticipate providing approximately $40 million to $45 million in aggregate funding (including the $6 million of interim funding) by the closing date to facilitate the Embratel sale transaction. We expect to recognize cumulative foreign currency translation losses, previously included in stockholders equity, as part of the gain or loss on a sale or other disposition of Vsper. We expect to record an approximate $35 million to $45 million loss if and when the transaction closes, including the cumulative foreign currency translation losses. We may incur additional losses related to Vsper if we are not successful in closing the sale transaction with Embratel or, in that event, if we are unable to realize the estimated fair value of Vspers assets upon their sale to another party or other disposition or if we are unable to effect such a sale or other disposition of Vsper and or its assets quickly. Additional risks and uncertainties specific to Vsper include risks associated with: the ability of the Vsper banks to call their loans to Vsper and exercise their rights in connection with certain lease obligations of Vsper if the Embratel sale transaction does not close by December 15, 2003; the liquidity and value of the assets, which may be diminished prior to the close of a sale transaction or other disposal of Vsper; continuing regulatory uncertainty and further adverse rulings, and uncertainty of success on any related legal challenges, increasing risk and reducing our ability to execute an orderly and fair market disposition; the inability to retain key employees during the sale/disposition process; the inability to maintain certain services, and quality of service levels during or prior to the sale/disposition that may lead to increased pressure related to regulatory compliance; the ability of certain trade creditors with significantly delayed payments to seek immediate court induced payments which, if called, in aggregate exceed the current cash available to Vsper; the inability to secure immediate financial relief in the form of adjustments in current key contracts and or loan provisions that may lead to reduced valuations; the Embratel sale transaction does not receive regulatory approval in a timely manner; the conditions under which we would return the SMP licenses are unclear, which may result in additional costs. following the close of the Embratel sale transaction, Vsper defaults on any of its obligations under the tower usage agreement, including making the tower usage payments; we are unable to sell all, or any portion, of our interest in the tower assets; and following the close of the Embratel sale transaction, we are unable to comply with our obligations to Vsper under the tower usage rights agreement or the cost of fulfilling such obligations is higher than projected. Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V. We have had various financing arrangements, including a bridge loan facility, an equipment loan facility and interim and additional interim loan facilities, with Pegaso Comunicaciones y Sistemas S.A. de C.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V., a CDMA wireless operator in Mexico (collectively referred to as Pegaso). On September 10, 2002, Telefnica Mviles (Telefnica) acquired a 65% controlling interest in Pegaso. On October 10, 2002, Pegaso paid $82 million in full satisfaction of the interim and additional interim loans. On November 8, 2002, Pegaso paid $435 million in full satisfaction of the bridge loan facility. We used approximately $139 million of the bridge loan proceeds to purchase outstanding vendor debt owed by Pegaso to 47 Table of Contents other lenders. On March 31, 2003, Pegaso paid $4 million on the equipment loan facility. On June 13, 2003, Pegaso prepaid $281 million of the equipment loan facility, including accrued interest, in accordance with certain terms of the equipment loan facility. As a result of these transactions, finance receivables from Pegaso decreased by $663 million. At September 30, 2003, amounts outstanding, net of deferred interest, under the Pegaso equipment loan facility were $181 million, including the acquired vendor debt, as compared to $821 million outstanding under the various financing arrangements with Pegaso at September 30, 2002. The remaining equipment loan facility outstanding with Pegaso, including the acquired vendor debt, is payable quarterly starting in March 2006 through December 2008 and bears interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1% through September 9, 2004, LIBOR plus 3% thereafter through September 9, 2007 and LIBOR plus 6% thereafter. We recognized $41 million, $9 million and $90 million in interest income related to the Pegaso financing arrangements during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, including $23 million of deferred interest income recorded as a result of the prepayment in fiscal 2003. Pegaso is an early stage wireless operator facing significant competition in Mexico. Based on current information and available evidence, including the acquisition of Pegaso by Telefnica, we believe that we will ultimately be able to collect the remaining long term financing due from Pegaso, however Pegaso may not succeed. Failure to collect our finance receivables could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Inquam Ltd In October 2000, we agreed to invest $200 million in the convertible preferred shares of Inquam Limited (Inquam) for an approximate 42% ownership interest in Inquam. Inquam owns, develops and manages wireless communications systems, either directly or indirectly, with the primary intent of deploying CDMA based technology, primarily in Europe. We provided the final $27 million under this equity commitment during fiscal 2003 and had no remaining equity funding commitment at September 30, 2003. On March 26, 2003, we agreed to extend $25 million of bridge loan financing to Inquam. Another investor in Inquam also agreed to provide $25 million in bridge loan financing. We provided the $25 million in funding during fiscal 2003 and had no remaining commitment under the bridge loan at September 30, 2003. On July 14, 2003, we approved an additional $50 million investment in Inquam, subject to certain conditions, including a matching $50 million investment by another existing investor in Inquam. No commitments related to these potential investments were in place at September 30, 2003. On September 19, 2003, we agreed, along with this other existing investor, to provide an additional $5 million each in bridge financing to enable Inquam to meet its cash flow requirements while the terms of a new equity investment are being negotiated. It is the intention of both parties that this second $10 million bridge loan will be repaid with the proceeds from the anticipated equity investment. We provided $2 million under this second bridge loan during fiscal 2003 and had a remaining funding commitment of $3 million at September 30, 2003. On September 22, 2003, we agreed, along with another investor in Inquam, to guarantee the payment of amounts due by Inquam under a bank credit agreement. Our maximum liability under the guarantee is limited to an amount equal to 50% of the amounts outstanding under Inquams credit agreement, up to a maximum of $10 million. No amounts were outstanding under the bank credit agreement as of September 30, 2003. We use the equity method to account for our investment in Inquam. During fiscal 2003, we recorded an $11 million other than temporary impairment loss related to our investment in Inquam. The impairment loss was the difference between the carrying value of the investment and its estimated fair value. At September 30, 2003, our equity and debt investment in Inquam was $68 million, net of equity in losses and impairment. We expect that Inquam will focus its resources on the development of CDMA properties in the 450MHz frequency band in Romania and western Europe and will transfer its non CDMA operations to one or more of Inquams other shareholders. Inquam is expected to use approximately $70 million to $80 million in cash through the first half of calendar 2004. Inquams management does not expect Inquam to be cash flow positive until calendar 2007 with its current business plan. If the Inquam operating companies cannot raise debt financing as expected or new investors cannot be found, Inquams growth potential and the value of our investment in Inquam may be negatively affected. 48 Table of Contents Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002 Total revenues for fiscal 2003 were $3,971 million, compared to $3,040 million for fiscal 2002. Revenues from Samsung, LG Electronics, Motorola, and Kyocera, customers of our QCT, QTL and other nonreportable segments, comprised an aggregate of 17%, 13%, 13% and 9% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2003 as compared to 15%, 11%, 7% and 14% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. The percentages for Kyocera included 1% and 3% in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to services provided to Kyocera by employees from our terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold to Kyocera in February 2000. This arrangement expired in February 2003. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2003 were $2,986 million, compared to $2,205 million for fiscal 2002. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2003 included $123 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding, compared to $125 million in fiscal 2002. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased $828 million, primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of Mobile Station Modem (MSM) and accompanying radio frequency (RF) integrated circuits. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2003 were $985 million, compared to $835 million for fiscal 2002. The increase resulted from higher QTL segment royalties, resulting primarily from an increase in phone sales by our licensees. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2003 was $1,430 million, compared to $1,137 million for fiscal 2002. The increase primarily resulted from an increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 48% for fiscal 2003, compared to 52% for fiscal 2002. The margin percentage improvement in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily due to the increase in QCT revenues as a percentage of total equipment and services revenues, resulting in increased QCT margin relative to the total. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2003 included $162 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding, compared to $183 million in fiscal 2002. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. For fiscal 2003, research and development expenses were $523 million or 13% of revenues, compared to $452 million or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2002. The dollar increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an $88 million increase in costs primarily related to increased engineering resources for integrated circuit product initiatives to support multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products, including CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO/1xEV DV, GSM/GPRS, WLAN, WCDMA and radioOne technologies, partially offset by an $11 million reduction in research and development efforts supporting the QDM division of the QWI segment and a $3 million reduction of support efforts related to the Globalstar business. For fiscal 2003, selling, general and administrative expenses were $535 million or 13% of revenues, compared to $509 million or 17% of revenues for fiscal 2002. The dollar increase was primarily due to a $27 million increase in employee related expenses, a $12 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, a $6 million increase in professional fees, primarily patent administration, and outside services and a $6 million increase related to international marketing and support efforts, partially offset by a $45 million decrease in Vsper expenses, including the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2003 included $62 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding, compared to $107 million in fiscal 2002. Amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets was $9 million for fiscal 2003, compared to $259 million in fiscal 2002. Starting in fiscal 2003, we no longer record goodwill amortization as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142. Amortization charges were primarily related to the acquisition of SnapTrack in March 2000. For fiscal 2003, asset impairment and related charges were $194 million, compared to less than $1 million of such charges in fiscal 2002. Asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2003 were comprised of a $160 million impairment loss on long term assets related to Vsper and a $34 million impairment loss on our wireless licenses in Australia due to recent developments that affected potential strategic alternatives for using the spectrum. The impairment loss recognized was the difference between the assets carrying values and their estimated fair values. For fiscal 2003, other operating income was $31 million, compared to other operating expenses of $9 million in fiscal 2002. Other operating income during fiscal 2003 resulted from $47 million of other income related to the 49 Table of Contents transfer of a portion of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction discount vouchers value to two wireless operators, offset by a $16 million charge related to the write down of notes receivable from an early stage CDMA wireless operator and an early stage media company. Other operating expenses during fiscal 2002 resulted from the write down of a note receivable from an early stage CDMA wireless operator. Interest expense was $31 million for fiscal 2003, compared to $26 million for fiscal 2002. Interest expense was primarily related to the $226 million and $113 million Vsper related long term debt at September 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Net investment income was $6 million for fiscal 2003 compared to net investment expense of $186 million for fiscal 2002. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 Change Interest income: Corporate $ 112 $ 102 $ 10 QSI 51 33 18 Net realized gains on investments: Corporate 17 17 QSI 56 2 54 Other than temporary losses on marketable securities (100 ) (206 ) 106 Other than temporary losses on other investments (38 ) (24 ) (14 ) Change in fair values of derivative investments (3 ) (58 ) 55 Minority interest in loss (income) of consolidated subsidiaries 37 52 (15 ) Equity in losses of investees (126 ) (87 ) (39 ) $ 6 $ (186 ) $ 192 The increase in interest income on corporate cash and marketable securities was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates earned on these balances. The increase in QSI interest income was primarily the result of $23 million of deferred interest income recorded as a result of a prepayment on Pegaso debt facilities in fiscal 2003. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2003 primarily related to an $81 million impairment of our investment in KTF and a $16 million impairment of our investment in a provider of semiconductor packaging, test and distribution services. The increase in other than temporary losses on other investments is primarily related to an $11 million impairment of our investment in Inquam and a $9 million impairment of our investment in a development stage CDMA wireless operator. The change in fair values of derivative investments during fiscal 2002 primarily resulted from movements in the price of Leap Wireless stock, which affected the fair values of our warrants to acquire Leap Wireless stock. Equity in losses of investees primarily increased due to a $43 million increase in our equity in losses incurred by Inquam. Income tax expense was $458 million for fiscal 2003, compared to $101 million for fiscal 2002. The annual effective tax rate was approximately 36% for fiscal 2003, compared to a rate of 22% for fiscal 2002. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2003 was lower than the combined federal and state statutory tax rate of approximately 39% primarily due to the U.S. tax write off of investments in certain foreign subsidiaries that became worthless during the year and foreign earnings that were taxed at less than the federal rate. The reductions were partially offset by foreign and capital losses for which we are not recording a tax benefit. The fiscal 2002 effective tax rate was lower than the fiscal 2003 effective tax rate principally due to the reduction of valuation allowances in fiscal 2002 that were previously charged to tax expense, partially offset by the amortization of non deductible goodwill in fiscal 2002. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002 QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT) QCT segment revenues for fiscal 2003 were $2,424 million, compared to $1,591 million for fiscal 2002. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $797 million, compared to $441 million for fiscal 2002. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin 50 Table of Contents percentage) was 33% in fiscal 2003, compared to 28% in fiscal 2002. Revenues and earnings before taxes increased primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits. Approximately 99 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2003, compared to approximately 65 million for fiscal 2002. Research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses were $62 million higher and $19 million higher, respectively, for fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily associated with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives to support multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multiband, multimode, multinetwork products including CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO/1xEV DV, GSM/GPRS, WLAN, WCDMA and radioOne technologies. The increase in operating margin percentage in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily related to the 52% increase in revenue as compared to the 18% increase in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT inventories were $75 million at September 30, 2003, representing a 48% increase from September 30, 2002, primarily as a result of anticipated future demand for 1X products. QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment (QTL) QTL segment revenues for fiscal 2003 were $1,000 million, compared to $847 million for fiscal 2002. Royalty revenues from licensees were $838 million in fiscal 2003, compared to $725 million in fiscal 2002. Revenues from license fees were $59 million in fiscal 2003, compared to $55 million in fiscal 2002. Other revenues were comprised of intersegment royalties. Royalty revenues include an estimate of royalties from certain licensees that have been earned, but will not be reported by those licensees to us until after the end of the fiscal year. Once royalty reports are received from those licensees, the variance between such reports and the estimate is recorded in royalty revenue in the period the reports are received, usually the following quarter. Royalties for fiscal 2003 included $151 million in estimated royalties for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and $17 million in royalties earned, but not estimated, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. By comparison, royalties for fiscal 2002 included $150 million in estimated royalties for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 and $24 million in royalties earned, but not estimated, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $897 million, compared to $756 million for fiscal 2002. QTLs operating margin percentage was 89% in both fiscal 2003 and 2002. The increase in revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees resulting from higher demand for CDMA products across all major regions of CDMA deployment. During fiscal 2003, we recognized $5 million in revenue related to equity received as consideration for license fees, compared to $6 million in fiscal 2002. QUALCOMM Wireless Internet Segment (QWI) QWI segment revenues for fiscal 2003 were $485 million, compared to $439 million for fiscal 2002. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $27 million, compared to losses before taxes of $9 million for fiscal 2002. QWIs operating margin was 6% in fiscal 2003, compared to negative 2% in fiscal 2002. Revenues increased primarily due to a $19 million increase in QWBS revenue, an $11 million increase in revenue related to the sale of test equipment used primarily in testing WCDMA networks, a $10 million increase in QDM revenue, primarily as a result of license revenue related to the sale of the TDC joint venture, and a $7 million increase in software and services revenue related to our QChat and BREW products. The increase in QWBS revenue was attributable to $23 million in revenue amortized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 related to equipment sales in prior periods, while equipment sales during the fourth quarter were recognized as revenue upon shipment. (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and its Significant Accounting Policies.) The increase in earnings before taxes and improvement in operating margin were primarily due to a $25 million increase in QWBS gross margin and an $11 million decrease in QDM research and development spending. The increase in QWBS gross margin was primarily attributable to $11 million in gross margin amortized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 related to equipment sales in prior periods, while equipment sales during the fourth quarter were recognized upon shipment, a $12 million increase resulting from an increase in higher margin messaging services and the effect of a $6 million release of warranty reserves resulting from the substantial completion of a QWBS warranty program. We shipped approximately 38,000 OmniTRACS and other related communications systems during fiscal 2003, compared to approximately 46,000 in fiscal 2002. QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives Segment (QSI) QSI segment revenues for fiscal 2003 were $124 million, compared to $126 million in fiscal 2002. QSI segment revenues were primarily related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding. QSI segment losses before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $448 million, compared to $507 million for fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2003, we recorded a $238 million loss, net of minority interest, due to the consolidation of Vsper Holding and $24 million of equity in losses of VeloCom, as compared with a $130 million loss, net of minority interest, due to the consolidation of Vsper Holding and $30 million of equity in losses of VeloCom and the Vsper Operating Companies (pre acquisition) in fiscal 51 Table of Contents 2002. We recorded a $43 million increase in our equity in losses incurred by Inquam and a $14 million increase in other than temporary losses on other investments, partially offset by a $97 million decrease in other than temporary losses on marketable securities and a $56 million decrease in the change in fair values of derivative investments, during fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2003, we also recorded other income of $47 million related to the transfer of portions of the FCC auction discount voucher value to two wireless operators, partially offset by a $34 million impairment loss on our wireless licenses in Australia due to recent developments that affected strategic alternatives for using the spectrum. For additional financial information relating to our reportable business segments, see Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001 Total revenues for fiscal 2002 were $3,040 million, compared to $2,680 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues from Samsung, Kyocera, and LG Electronics, customers of our QCT, QTL and other nonreportable segments, comprised an aggregate of 15%, 14% and 11% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2001, revenues from Samsung, Kyocera and LG Electronics, comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total consolidated revenues, respectively. The percentages for Kyocera included 3% and 4% in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to services provided to Kyocera by employees from our terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold to Kyocera in February 2000. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2002 were $2,205 million, compared to $1,908 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2002 included $125 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding effective in November 2001 and $8 million related to the Globalstar business. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2001 included $54 million related to Globalstar. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased by $218 million, primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of MSM integrated circuits, and the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our 3G CDMA2000 1X integrated circuits products. Software development services revenues related to the QChat licensing agreement increased $34 million. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2002 were $835 million, compared to $772 million for fiscal 2001. QTL segment royalty revenues from licensees increased $64 million. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2002 was $1,137 million, compared to $1,035 million for fiscal 2001. Cost of revenues for fiscal 2002 included $183 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding and $11 million related to our on going obligation to Globalstar. Cost of revenues for fiscal 2001 included $129 million related to Globalstar. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 52% for fiscal 2002, compared to 54% for fiscal 2001. The margin improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X integrated circuits products and the increase in revenues from royalties in the QTL segment. For fiscal 2002, research and development expenses were $452 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $415 million or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2001. The dollar increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to $41 million in increased integrated circuit product initiatives to support high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO, GSM/GPRS, WCDMA and position location technologies and $14 million in increased QWBS research and development initiatives, partially offset by a $29 million reduction of development efforts related to the Globalstar business. For fiscal 2002, selling, general and administrative expenses were $509 million or 17% of revenues, compared to $367 million or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2002 included $107 million related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding. The remaining dollar increase was primarily due to a $33 million increase in marketing and support efforts related to products and services of our QIS division, including the BREW product, $23 million associated with the expansion of our integrated circuit customer base and international business development activities, particularly in China, and $13 million resulting from the consolidation of Wireless Knowledge, Inc. (Wireless Knowledge), partially offset by a $22 million reduction in support efforts related to the Globalstar business and a $14 million reduction in bad debt expense. Amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets was $259 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $255 million in fiscal 2001. Amortization charges were primarily related to the acquisition of SnapTrack in March 2000. 52 Table of Contents For fiscal 2002, asset impairment and related charges were less than $1 million, compared to $518 million of such charges in fiscal 2001. Asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2001 were comprised primarily of $519 million in charges resulting from managements determination that certain assets related to the Globalstar business were impaired. For fiscal 2002, other operating expenses were $9 million, compared to $51 million in fiscal 2001. Other operating expenses for fiscal 2002 resulted from the write down of a note receivable from a development stage CDMA carrier. Other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a $62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by $11 million in other income related to the irrevocable transfer of a portion of an FCC auction discount voucher to a third party. Interest expense was $26 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $10 million for fiscal 2001. Interest expense for fiscal 2002 was primarily related to the long term debt of Vsper Holding. Interest expense for fiscal 2001 was primarily related to interest charges resulting from the arbitration decision made against us. Net investment expense was $186 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $317 million for fiscal 2001. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2002 2001 Change Interest income: Corporate $ 102 $ 135 $ (33 ) QSI 33 108 (75 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate 11 (11 ) QSI 2 59 (57 ) Other than temporary losses on marketable securities (206 ) (147 ) (59 ) Other than temporary losses on other investments (24 ) (51 ) 27 Change in fair values of derivative investments (58 ) (243 ) 185 Minority interest in loss (income) of consolidated subsidiaries 52 (4 ) 56 Equity in losses of investees (87 ) (185 ) 98 $ (186 ) $ (317 ) $ 131 The decline in interest income on corporate cash and marketable debt securities was a result of lower interest rates. The decline in QSI interest income was a result of the cessation of interest income recognition on Pegaso debt facilities starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2001 and on Leap Wireless bonds starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2002 primarily related to $162 million and $18 million in losses on our investments in Leap Wireless bonds and common stock, respectively. We determined that the declines in fair values were other than temporary, as the market values of the bond and common stock had significantly declined during fiscal 2002 as a result of unfavorable developments in Leap Wireless business. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2001 primarily related to a $134 million loss on our investment in NetZero, Inc., which subsequently completed a merger with Juno Online Services, Inc. and became United Online, Inc. The change in fair values of derivative instruments primarily resulted from $59 million in losses resulting from declines in the price of Leap Wireless common stock, which reduced the fair values of our warrants to acquire Leap Wireless common stock. The warrants had insignificant value at September 30, 2002. Equity in losses of investees decreased as a result of the consolidation of Vsper Holding effective November 13, 2001, as these losses are now included in operations. For fiscal 2002 there were no other non operating charges, compared to $167 million in fiscal 2001. Other non operating charges in fiscal 2001 were primarily comprised of a $120 million write down of the note receivable from 53 Table of Contents VeloCom to its fair value and $58 million in write downs of recorded values of a note receivable from Globalstar and warrants to acquire partnership interests in Globalstar to their estimated fair values. Income tax expense was $101 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $105 million for fiscal 2001. The annual effective tax rate was 22% for fiscal 2002, compared to a negative 23% rate for fiscal 2001. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2002 was lower than the statutory rate due to the reduction of deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance that was previously charged to tax expense, partially offset by foreign losses for which we are not recording a tax benefit. The fiscal 2001 effective tax rate was the result of pre tax losses for which no tax benefit was recorded and foreign tax expense. The annual effective tax rate on profits for fiscal 2002 cannot be meaningfully compared to the effective tax rate on losses for the prior fiscal year. We recorded an $18 million loss, net of taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles at September 30, 2000. The cumulative effect of the adoption of SAB 101 was a $147 million loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of FAS 133. The gain resulting from the adoption of FAS 133 related primarily to the unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares of Leap Wireless common stock issued to us in connection with our spin off of Leap Wireless in September 1998. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001 QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT) QCT segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $1,591 million, compared to $1,365 million for fiscal 2001. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $441 million, compared to $306 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues and earnings before taxes increased primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of MSM integrated circuits and the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our CDMA2000 1X products. Approximately 65 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 58 million for fiscal 2001. Approximately 10 million CSM infrastructure integrated circuits equivalent voice channels were sold during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 9 million for fiscal 2001. Both research and development and selling and marketing expenses were $22 million higher for fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 primarily associated with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives to support high speed wireless Internet access and multiband, multimode, multinetwork products including cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO, GSM/GPRS, WCDMA and position location technologies. QCT inventories decreased by 27% during fiscal 2002 primarily as a result of strong demand for 1X products across our customer base and improved component availability. QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment (QTL) QTL segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $847 million, compared to $782 million for fiscal 2001. Royalty revenues from licensees were $725 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $661 million in fiscal 2001. Revenues from license fees were $55 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $67 million in fiscal 2001. Other revenues were comprised of intersegment royalties. Earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $756 million, compared to $706 million for fiscal 2001. The increase in revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees resulting from higher demand for CDMA products across all major regions of CDMA deployment. During fiscal 2002, we recognized $6 million in revenue related to equity received as consideration for license fees, compared to $7 million in fiscal 2001. QUALCOMM Wireless Internet Segment (QWI) QWI segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $439 million, compared to $426 million for fiscal 2001. Losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $9 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $33 million for fiscal 2001. Revenues increased primarily due to an increase in software development and services revenues related to our BREW products and QChat licensing agreement. Earnings before taxes decreased primarily due to a $35 million increase in our development, support and marketing efforts related to products and services of our QIS division, including the BREW product and a $14 million increase in QWBS research and development expenditures. We shipped approximately 46,000 OmniTRACS and other related communications systems during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 43,000 in fiscal 2001. QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives Segment (QSI) QSI segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $126 million, primarily related to the consolidation of Vsper Holding. QSI segment losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $507 million, compared to $1,125 million for fiscal 2001. The decrease in losses was primarily due to $568 million in charges incurred in fiscal 2001 related to 54 Table of Contents Globalstar. During fiscal 2002, we recorded a $130 million loss, net of minority interest, due to the consolidation of Vsper Holding and $30 million of equity losses in the Vsper Operating Companies (pre acquisition) and VeloCom, as compared with $150 million of equity losses for the Vsper Operating Companies in fiscal 2001. During fiscal 2002, we recorded $180 million in other than temporary losses on Leap Wireless marketable securities, compared to an $11 million realized gain in fiscal 2001. We also recorded $59 million in losses related to changes in the fair values of Leap Wireless derivative investments in fiscal 2002, compared to $213 million in losses in fiscal 2001. Losses on Leap Wireless derivative investments resulted from declines in the market price of Leap Wireless common stock during those fiscal years. During fiscal 2001, we recorded a $120 million charge to write down a note receivable from VeloCom to its fair value as a result of the reorganization of the Vsper Operating Companies initiated during fiscal 2001. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $5.4 billion at September 30, 2003, an increase of $2.2 billion from September 30, 2002. The increase during fiscal 2003 was primarily the result of $1.8 billion in cash provided by operating activities, $663 million in net collections received on finance receivables, mainly comprised of payments from Pegaso, $191 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and $37 million in net marketable securities purchases pending cash settlement, partially offset by $231 million in capital expenditures, $158 million in net purchases of our common stock and $135 million in dividend payments. Accounts receivable decreased by 10% during fiscal 2003. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to the timing of cash receipts and the expiration of our services arrangement with Kyocera in February 2003. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 46 days at September 30, 2003 compared to 54 days at September 30, 2002. The change in days sales outstanding is consistent with the increase in revenue and improved cash collections resulting in the decrease in the accounts receivable balance. In February 2003, we committed up to $1 billion to repurchase shares of our common stock over a two year period. During fiscal 2003, we bought 4,915,000 shares at a net aggregate cost of $158 million. At September 30, 2003, $834 million remains to be expended. Repurchased shares are retired upon repurchase. In connection with our stock repurchase program, we sold put options in March 2003 that could have required us to purchase three million shares of our common stock upon exercise. All of these written put options expired unexercised. We recorded $7 million in premiums received for the put options as additions to paid in capital. We declared dividends totaling approximately $135 million or $0.17 per share during fiscal 2003. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on current business plans, including investments in other companies and other assets to support the growth of our business, financing for customers of CDMA infrastructure products in accordance with the agreements with Ericsson, financing under agreements with CDMA telecommunications carriers, other commitments, the payment of dividends and possible additional stock buy backs. In fiscal 2003, we began construction on two new facilities in San Diego, California totaling one million square feet to meet the requirements projected in our long term business plan. The cost of these new facilities is expected to approximate $250 million. We intend to continue our strategic investment activities to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and the growth of CDMA based wireless data and wireless Internet products. As part of these investment activities, we may provide financing to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment by authorized suppliers. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources including potential debt and equity issuance. On September 25, 2003, Embratel entered into an agreement to acquire from us for nominal consideration the Vsper Operating Companies, excluding the tower and rooftop antennae assets and related property leases (Tower Sites). Concurrent with the closing, Vsper will enter into a multi year arrangement whereby it pays a monthly fee to us to use the Tower Sites. The sum of these fees, net of certain pass through expenses, is expected to exceed $77 million over the life of the arrangement. The closing of the Embratel sale transaction is contingent upon a number of events being completed prior to or concurrent with closing. We are required to provide $6 million in interim funding to Vsper on, or prior to, closing of the Embratel sale transaction. Assuming the requisite government approvals are received and all conditions to close are satisfied, we anticipate providing approximately $40 million to $45 million in aggregate 55 Table of Contents funding (including the $6 million of interim funding) by the closing date to facilitate the Embratel sale transaction. On July 14, 2003, we approved an additional $50 million investment in Inquam, subject to certain conditions, including a matching $50 million investment by another existing investor in Inquam. We are currently negotiating the terms and conditions of an investment agreement. No commitments related to these potential investments were in place at September 30, 2003. Contractual Obligations We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets or fully disclosed in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 30, 2003, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period No Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Expiration Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Date Long term financing under Ericsson arrangement (1) $ 464 $ 346 $ $ $ $ 118 Purchase obligations 377 327 50 Operating leases 135 42 57 25 11 Equity investments (1) 24 1 19 4 Inquam bridge loan and guarantee 13 13 Other commitments 1 1 Total commitments 1,014 730 126 25 15 118 Long term debt 179 68 17 34 60 Capital leases 47 35 5 7 Other long term liabilities (2) 55 3 1 4 47 Total recorded liabilities 281 106 23 38 67 47 Total $ 1,295 $ 836 $ 149 $ 63 $ 82 $ 165 (1) The majority of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates, and the expected funding dates cannot be forecast. Amounts are presented based on the expiration of the commitment, but actual funding may occur earlier or not at all as funding is subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts. (2) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenue, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. The long term financing commitment under our arrangement with Ericsson included $346 million that expires on November 6, 2003. Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 30, 2003 is provided in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3 Composition of 56 Table of Contents Certain Financial Statement Captions, Finance Receivables, Note 4 Investments in Other Entities, Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies and Note 11 Acquisitions. Future Accounting Requirements Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, was issued in January 2003. FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. The provisions of FIN 46 are effective immediately for all arrangements entered into after January 31, 2003. Since January 31, 2003, we have not invested in any entities we believe are variable interest entities. For those arrangements entered into prior to February 1, 2003, we are required to adopt the provisions of FIN 46 at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2004, in accordance with the FASB Staff Position 46 6 which delayed the effective date of FIN 46 for those arrangements. We are in the process of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 46 will have on our financial statements. Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk Interest Rate Market Risk. We have fixed income securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities. We also have diversified portfolios of non investment grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers, which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our investment grade fixed income portfolios. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. Our fixed income investments have grown significantly in size and are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. If the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate and our fixed income investments could lose value. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. (See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Marketable Securities for information about investments in marketable debt securities.) We have finance receivables and notes receivable (included in other assets) from third parties that bear interest at both fixed and variable rates (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions for information about finance receivables). Interest earned on certain finance receivables and notes is at variable interest rates and is affected by changes in the general level of United States interest rates and or changes in the LIBOR index. Finance receivables and notes that bear interest at fixed rates could lose value if interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For our fixed income investment portfolio, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average yield at cost. For our finance receivables and notes receivable, the table presents contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. 57 Table of Contents Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected MaturityAverage Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single Fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Maturity Total Value Fixed income securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 284 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 284 $ 284 Interest rate 1.1 % Held to maturity securities $ 167 $ 20 $ 180 $ $ $ $ $ 367 $ 368 Interest rate 3.4 % 1.8 % 2.0 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 177 $ 701 $ 602 $ 239 $ 98 $ 20 $ 484 $ 2,321 $ 2,321 Interest rate 3.0 % 2.0 % 2.4 % 2.9 % 3.3 % 7.2 % 3.2 % Non investment grade $ 11 $ 2 $ 8 $ 11 $ 41 $ 425 $ $ 498 $ 498 Interest rate 8.7 % 7.7 % 9.2 % 9.6 % 8.9 % 8.3 % Finance receivables: Fixed rate $ 7 $ 1 $ $ $ $ 2 $ $ 10 $ 6 Interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % 0.0 % Variable rate (LIBOR) $ $ $ 49 $ 65 $ 65 $ 16 $ $ 195 $ 192 Margin over LIBOR 6.3 % 6.5 % 9.9 % 5.2 % Notes receivable in other assets: Fixed rate $ 37 $ $ $ $ $ 46 $ $ 83 $ 64 Interest rate 7.5 % 0.0 % Variable rate (LIBOR) $ $ $ $ $ $ 56 $ $ 56 $ 6 Margin over LIBOR 0.0 % Vsper related long term debt: Wireless license Fixed rate $ $ $ 17 $ 17 $ 17 $ 60 $ $ 111 $ 111 Interest rate 12.0 % 12.0 % 12.0 % 12.0 % Bank loans Variable rate (CDI) $ 68 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 68 $ 65 Margin over CDI 1.5 % Default rate 12.0 % Capital leases Fixed rate $ 33 $ $ $ $ $ 7 $ $ 40 $ 39 Interest rate 12.6 % 12.6 % Variable rate (LIBOR) $ $ $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 4 $ 4 Margin over LIBOR 6.0 % Variable rate (TR) $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 3 Margin over TR 12.0 % 12.0 % The Vsper related bank loans and $33 million of the capital lease obligations are callable by the bank creditors as a result of the failure of the Vsper Operating Companies to make interest and certain lease payments. The Vsper Operating Companies were charged a 2% default penalty and are being charged an additional 1% interest rate per month on the amount in default until the default is cured. The bank creditors have provided forbearance through December 15, 2003 with respect to the amounts owed under certain agreements that are in payment default. (See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Acquisitions for information about long term debt.) The fair values of bank loans and capital lease obligations will change as interest rates change. Interest expense will be affected by changes in the Certificate of Deposit InterBank (CDI) rate. Equity Price Market Risk. We hold marketable securities and derivative instruments subject to equity price risk which are accounted for under FAS 115 and FAS 133. The recorded values of marketable equity securities totaled $140 million at September 30, 2003. As of September 30, 2003, one equity position constituted approximately 59% of the fair value of the marketable securities portfolio. The recorded value of derivative instruments subject to FAS 133 at September 30, 2003 was $2 million. We generally invest in technology companies and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. These investments are held for purposes other 58 Table of Contents than trading. The portfolios concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the portfolios price volatility. During the last three years, many technology stocks experienced significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair values of our available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities, at September 30, 2003 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $14 million. Our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. Accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. Additionally, we do not anticipate any near term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in managements objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. The recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $153 million at September 30, 2003. Additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operating Results in this Annual Report. Foreign Exchange Market Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts and options. Derivative financial instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 30, 2003, no foreign currency forward contracts were outstanding. (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements The Company and its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies.) Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk related to our consolidation of the Vsper Operating Companies. We report our financial statements in U.S. dollars. The Vsper Operating Companies account for the majority of their transactions in Brazilian real, and their results are translated into U.S. dollars during and at the end of the fiscal quarter. In addition, the Vsper Operating Companies capital lease commitments are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, a significant change in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real could have a material effect on the Vsper Operating Companies and on us. A significant devaluation of the Brazilian real occurred in the past and may occur again in the future. A 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Brazilian real during fiscal 2003 would have resulted in a decrease in net income of approximately $25 million for the year ended September 30, 2003. Finance receivables and notes receivable from international carriers and customers that do not use the United States dollar as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk. Because our financing is U.S. dollar denominated, any significant change in the value of the U.S. dollar against the debtors functional currencies could result in an increase in the debtors cash flow requirements and could thereby affect our ability to collect our receivables. At September 30, 2003, finance and note receivables from international carriers and customers totaled $214 million, net of allowances. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
