Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Recent Highlights Revenues for fiscal 2004 were $4.9 billion, with net income of $1.7 billion. The following recent developments during fiscal 2004 were key for our business: Strong CDMA market growth throughout the world drove demand for our products and the products of our licensees. Enhanced multimedia functionality, increased growth of 1xEV DO, local number portability initiatives and improving competitive positioning of CDMA operators drove worldwide growth in CDMA phone sales. Introduction of new CDMA networks in developing regions, as well as continued growth of networks in China and India, also contributed to growth in CDMA sales. Worldwide, 1xEV DO grew to over nine million subscribers in September 2004. During fiscal 2004, we shipped approximately 137 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for mobile CDMA phones and data modules, nearly all of which were third generation (3G), including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO and WCDMA. By calendar year end 2004, operators are expected to have launched 70 WCDMA networks as reported by GSMA (GSM Association). WCDMA subscriber growth in Japan and Europe, and new network launches in Europe and Asia drove growth in WCDMA phone sales during fiscal 2004. Thirteen subscriber licensees and eleven infrastructure licensees reported sales of WCDMA products in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. WCDMA royalties grew from 12% of royalties reported in the first fiscal quarter of 2004 for licensee sales during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003 to 26% of royalties reported in the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2004 for licensee sales during the third fiscal quarter of fiscal 2004. Currently, average WCDMA phone prices are significantly higher than worldwide average CDMA2000 phone prices. During fiscal 2004, several leading manufacturers announced the selection of our WCDMA MSM integrated circuits for their WCDMA phone products, including Siemens, Samsung, LG Electronics, Sanyo and Option. As a result of record demand for CDMA products, our integrated circuits business continued to experience supply constraints which resulted in our inability to meet certain customer demands. To enable better supply of integrated circuit products, we have increased and extended firm orders to our foundry suppliers and are working with them to increase capacity. We are also evaluating potential new suppliers to augment our future needs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we determined that, due to the global growth of WCDMA networks and the increasing variability of our licensees market shares due to greater global competition, we would begin to recognize royalty revenues solely based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter, rather than continuing to estimate royalty revenues earned from certain licensees in advance of receiving their royalty reports. Accordingly, we did not estimate royalty revenues earned in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, and royalties recorded as revenue for fiscal 2004 do not reflect an entire years worth of royalties (some royalties reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 were recorded based on estimates as revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003). Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, from services and related hardware sales and from software development and related services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development, selling, general and administrative, amortization of acquisition related intangible assets, asset impairment charges and other expenses. 40 Table of Contents We conduct business through four operating segments. These segments are: QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, or QCT; QUALCOMM Technology Licensing, or QTL; QUALCOMM Wireless Internet, or QWI; and QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning. QCTs integrated circuit products and software are used in wireless phones and infrastructure equipment. The wireless phone integrated circuits include the Mobile Station Modem (MSM), Radio Frequency (RF) and Power Management (PM) devices. The wireless phone integrated circuits and software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between radio and baseband signals and power management. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits provide the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the operators equipment. QCT software products are the operating systems that control the phone and the functionality imbedded in our integrated circuit products. QCT revenues comprised 63% of total consolidated revenues in both fiscal 2004 and 2003 and 54% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002. QTL grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of CDMA (including, without limitation, cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO/1xEV DV, TD SCDMA and WCDMA) products. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating our intellectual property. QTL revenues comprised 27%, 26% and 29% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. QWI, which includes QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions (QWBS), QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) and QUALCOMM Government Technologies (QGOV), generates revenue primarily through mobile communication products and services, software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QWBS provides satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging and position reporting services to transportation companies, private fleets, construction equipment fleets and other enterprise companies. QIS provides the BREW product and services for the development and over the air deployment of data services on wireless devices. QIS also provides QChat and QPoint products and services. QChat enables virtually instantaneous push to chat functionality on CDMA based wireless devices while QPoint enables operators to offer E 911 and location based applications and services. The QGOV division provides development, hardware and analytical expertise to United States government agencies involving wireless communications technologies. The QGOV division included the former Digital Cinema business prior to June 2004. In June 2004, we were notified that a competing digital cinema compression technology was selected by the motion picture studio consortium tasked with technology selection for digital cinema applications. As such, we are no longer pursuing the Digital Cinema business. Revenues from the Digital Cinema business were $1 million, $9 million and $14 million in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. QWI revenues comprised 12%, 13% and 16% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. QSI makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications. Our strategy is to invest in CDMA operators, licensed device manufacturers and start up companies that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess unique capabilities or technology to promote Internet data communications. Effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2005, we expect to present the operating results of our wireless multimedia U.S. operator in the QSI segment. Looking Forward In fiscal year 2005, we expect continued growth in the overall CDMA2000 and WCDMA market, with particularly strong growth in WCDMA and emerging CDMA2000 markets. We expect continued growth in 1xEV DO in South Korea, Japan and Latin America, as well as North America, with expected launches of nationwide service by both Verizon Wireless and Sprint PCS. The global expansion of broadband data services is expected to continue to drive demand for both 1xEV DO phones and data cards for laptop services. Operator competition in Japan, North America and other regions is also accelerating data strategies and services as one operator responds to the plans of another. As reported by mobilemonday.net, a community of and for mobile professionals, operators are expected to have launched 70 WCDMA networks by the end of calendar 2004, which is expected to drive meaningful growth in WCDMA phone sales during fiscal year 2005. Cingular Wireless in North America is looking to launch WCDMA/HSDPA later in 2005. We anticipate 3G wireless licenses will be granted in China in calendar 2005. When the licenses are granted, we expect operators in China will be authorized to upgrade and deploy third 41 Table of Contents generation CDMA based networks. We also expect additional CDMA450 network launches in fiscal 2005 to contribute to growth. We believe our QCT business will increasingly benefit from strong growth in the WCDMA market as we leverage our high quality products and customer relationships to further a strong and growing list of WCDMA phone manufacturer customers. Growing demand for phones and devices with greater multimedia functionality will continue to drive demand for increasing functionality in our MSM chips. We will continue to invest heavily to position our QCT business for success in the WCDMA market, as well as to continue to maintain our strong position in the CDMA2000 market. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation including CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV DO, WCDMA, FLO, OFDM and multimedia applications which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on chip computers and signal processors. We continue to work on different initiatives for low cost phones in addition to reducing costs through further integration of multimedia capabilities of mid to high end phones. We will also continue our significant development efforts with respect to our BREW applications development platform and our new MediaFLO content distribution system and FLO technology for delivery of low cost multimedia content to multiple subscribers. We are working closely with many operators and manufacturers to support rapid and reliable WCDMA deployment and availability of WCDMA phones (with increasing multimedia features and capabilities). We expect that in 2005 average WCDMA phone prices will decrease significantly, although we expect them to still be higher than average CDMA2000 phone prices. BREW is expected to play an increasingly important role in generating consumer demand for wireless phones. BREW offers operators new capabilities for their products and an open platform for delivery of data services that can grow operators data revenues. We expect more operators to launch BREW services and greater volumes of BREW software downloads to drive increasing revenues for our BREW business. Although we have taken action to mitigate shortages of integrated circuits that we supply, the effects of such shortages have caused some customer frustration and could negatively affect our future business. We expect that the costs of certain integrated circuit products could increase as a result of our efforts to increase the availability of products in short supply. While we work closely with customers to expedite their processes for evaluating products from our new foundry suppliers, in some instances, transition to new product supply may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific products to individual customers. As a result of our efforts to increase capacity at our current suppliers combined with the potential to bring on additional suppliers, we expect our shortages of integrated circuits to be alleviated in the future. We are dependent upon the adoption and commercial deployment of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our CDMA technology to increase our revenues and market share. We continue to face significant competition from non CDMA technologies, as well as competition from companies offering other CDMA based products. You should also refer to the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report for further discussion of these and other risks related to our business. Revenue Concentrations Revenues from customers in South Korea, the United States and Japan comprised 43%, 21% and 18%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2004 as compared to 45%, 23% and 15%, respectively, in fiscal 2003, and 39%, 31% and 18%, respectively, in fiscal 2002. We distinguish revenue from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. The increase in revenues from customers in Japan, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to higher royalties from licensees in Japan resulting from the growth of CDMA2000 and WCDMA in Japan as well as their success in exporting products worldwide. The decrease in revenues from customers in the United States, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to overall increases in revenues in geographic regions other than the United States. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent 42 Table of Contents assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, income taxes, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from royalties for our intellectual property, from messaging and other services and related hardware sales, from software development and related services, and from license fees for intellectual property. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but it is possible that actual results may differ from our estimates. We license rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of CDMA (including, without limitation, cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1x EV DO/1xEV DV, TD SCDMA and WCDMA) products. We recognized royalty revenue as earned when reasonable estimates of such amounts could be made for certain licensees through the third quarter of fiscal 2004. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we recognize revenues solely when royalties are reported to us by our licensees as we no longer have the ability to reliably estimate these amounts. The change in the timing of recognizing royalty revenue was made prospectively and had the initial one time effect of reducing royalty revenues recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 due to the fact that no estimated royalty revenues were recorded in that quarter. As a result of this change, we believe that the estimates and assumptions used in applying our revenue recognition policies with respect to the timing and amount of recording our royalty revenues will have a less material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of September 30, 2004, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $356 million and $128 million, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority strategic investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. These investments totaled $150 million at September 30, 2004. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing a publicly traded investment for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, the performance of the investees stock price in relation to the stock price of its competitors within the industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. In the event our judgments change as to 43 Table of Contents other than temporary declines in value, we may record an impairment loss which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority strategic investments in private companies whose values are difficult to determine. These investments totaled $163 million at September 30, 2004. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing investments in private companies for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the share price from the investees latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the investees revenue and cost trends, the liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate and market acceptance of the investees products and services. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. We also consider new products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any significant news that has been released specific to the investee or the investees competitors and or industry and the outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates. In the event our judgments change as to other than temporary declines in value, we may record an impairment loss which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Income Taxes. Our income tax provision is based on calculations and assumptions that will be subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Should the actual results differ from our estimates, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. Such adjustment could have a material impact on our results of operations. The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability and establishes a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. As of September 30, 2004, gross deferred tax assets were $1.1 billion. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, the Company could be required to increase its valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in its effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results. As of September 30, 2004, the Company has recorded gross deferred tax assets of $418 million related to capital loss carry forwards. We can only use capital losses to offset capital gains. Based upon our assessments of projected future capital gains and losses and related tax planning strategies, we expect that our future capital gains will not be sufficient to utilize all the capital losses that we have incurred through fiscal 2004. Therefore, we have provided a valuation allowance in the amount of $139 million for the portion of capital losses we do not expect to utilize. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of capital losses and capital gains are reflected in the period the change is made. We consider the operating earnings of non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the cumulative amount of which is approximately $1.5 billion as of September 30, 2004. Should we repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the decision to repatriate earnings of foreign subsidiaries is made. We are currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and may decide to repatriate future earnings of some of our foreign subsidiaries. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on the Companys operating results, liquidity or financial position, the Company believes the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated 44 Table of Contents liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. The Company has not recorded any accrual for contingent liability associated with the Companys legal proceedings based on the Companys belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Licensing We grant licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture, use and sale of CDMA (including, without limitation, cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO/1xEV DV, TD SCDMA and WCDMA) products. Licensees typically pay a nonrefundable license fee in one or more installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We earn royalties on such licensed CDMA products sold worldwide by our licensees at the time that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter, and, in some instances, although royalties are reported quarterly, payment is on a semi annual basis. During periods preceding the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we estimated and recorded the royalty revenues earned for sales by certain licensees (the Estimated Licensees) in the quarter in which such sales occurred, but only when reasonable estimates of such amounts could be made. Not all royalties earned were estimated. Royalties for licensees for which we had minimal reporting history and certain licensees that did not incorporate our integrated circuit products into their own products were recorded one quarter in arrears, i.e. in the quarter in which the royalties were reported to us by those licensees. Estimates of royalty revenues for the Estimated Licensees were based on analyses of our sales of integrated circuits to Estimated Licensees, historical royalty data for Estimated Licensees, an estimate of the time between our sales of integrated circuits to Estimated Licensees and Estimated Licensees sales of CDMA products, average sales price forecasts, estimates of inventory levels and current market and economic trends. Once royalty reports were received from the Estimated Licensees, the variance between such reports and the estimate was recorded as royalty revenue in the quarter in which the reports were received, i.e. in most cases, the quarter subsequent to the quarter in which the estimated royalties were recorded as revenue. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we determined that, due to recent escalating business trends, we no longer have the ability to reliably estimate royalty revenues from certain licensees. These escalating trends include the commercial launches and global expansion of WCDMA networks, changes in market share among licensees due to increased global competition and increased variability in the integrated circuit and finished product inventories of licensees. Accordingly, we did not estimate royalty revenues earned in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we began recognizing revenues solely based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter. The change in the timing of recognizing royalty revenue was made prospectively and had the initial one time effect of reducing royalty revenues recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Royalties reported by our licensees were $151 million higher than royalty revenues from external licensees recorded in fiscal 2004 because $151 million in royalties that were reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 had been estimated and recorded as revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. To facilitate an understanding of the impact of the change, the following table compares royalty revenues recorded as revenue in fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 to royalties reported by our licensees during those same periods (in millions): 45 Table of Contents 2004 2003 2002 Royalty revenues from external licensees, as recorded in our consolidated statements of operations $ 1,141 $ 838 $ 725 Estimate recorded for the fourth quarter of the prior year for Estimated Licensees* 151 150 122 Estimate recorded at end of the current year for Estimated Licensees (151 ) (150 ) Total royalties reported by external licensees during the current year $ 1,292 $ 837 $ 697 * Recorded as revenue in the prior year, but reported by licensees during the current year. The table above illustrates that the difference between royalties reported by external licensees and royalty revenues from external licensees recorded in our consolidated statements of operations has equaled the difference between the estimate for Estimated Licensees at the end of the current year and the estimate for Estimated Licensees at the end of the prior year. Strategic Investments in our QSI Segment Our QSI segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications. QSI segment assets totaled $400 million at September 30, 2004, compared to $839 million at September 30, 2003. In general, we enter into strategic relationships with CDMA wireless operators and developers of innovative technologies or products for the wireless communications industry. Due to financial and competitive challenges facing CDMA wireless operators, we cannot assure you that our investments in or loans to these operators will generate financial returns or that they will result in increased adoption or continued use of CDMA technologies. CDMA wireless operators to whom we have provided funding have limited operating histories, are faced with significant capital requirements and are highly leveraged and or have limited financial resources. If these CDMA wireless operators are not successful, we may have to write down our investments in or loans to these operators. Our QSI segment maintains strategic holdings of various issuers and types. These securities include available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments that are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. We strategically invest in companies in the high technology industry and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our exposure to market risks in these investments. Available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments recorded at fair value subject us to equity price risk. The fair values of these strategic investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market price volatility. Our strategic investments in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect price volatility. In general, our investments in available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments suffered significant decreases in market value during the last three years. Downward fluctuations and market trends could further adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the realizable value of these securities and derivative instruments is subject to market and other conditions. QSI also makes strategic investments in privately held companies, including early stage companies and venture funds. These investments are recorded at cost or under the equity method, but the recorded values may be written down due to changes in the companies conditions or prospects. These strategic investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products the investees are developing may never materialize. As a result, we could lose all or a portion of our investments in these companies, which could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. Most of these strategic investments will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. To the extent such investments become liquid and meet strategic and price objectives, we may sell the investments and recognize the realized gain (loss) in investment income (expense). We regularly monitor and evaluate the realizable value of our investments in both marketable and private securities. If events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of these assets has occurred and is other than temporary, we will record a charge to investment income (expense). During fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, the QSI segment recognized $12 million, $127 million and $221 million, respectively, in charges related to other than temporary losses on marketable and private securities. In some cases, we make strategic investments that require us 46 Table of Contents to consolidate or record our equity in the losses of early stage companies. The consolidation of these losses can adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to the investments. From time to time, we may accept an equity interest in a licensee as consideration for a portion or all of the license fee payable under our CDMA license agreement. QTL records license fee revenue based on the fair value of the equity instruments received, if determinable. The measurement date for determination of fair value is the earlier of the date at which a performance commitment is made or the date at which the performance is complete. The evaluation procedures used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, examining the current market price for the shares if the licensee is publicly traded, examining recent rounds of financing and the licensees business plan if not publicly traded, and performing other due diligence procedures. This equity program does not affect the licensees obligations to pay royalties under their CDMA license agreements. The amount of cash consideration and the timing of revenue recognition vary depending on the terms of each agreement. As of September 30, 2004, ten licensees have participated in this program. We recognized $5 million of revenue in each of fiscal 2004 and 2003 and $6 million of revenue in fiscal 2002 related to equity received as license fees. The equity investments received from this program are assets of QSI. Key developments in our strategic investments during fiscal 2004 included the sale of the Vsper Operating Companies and related assets which are presented as discontinued operations, our receipt from Pegaso of prepayment of our $193 million loan facility, and ongoing investment in Inquam. Discontinued Operations in our QSI Segment. In fiscal 1999, we acquired ownership interests in two companies in Brazil, Vsper So Paulo S.A. and Vsper S.A. (the Vsper Operating Companies). In November 2001, we consummated a series of transactions resulting in an overall financial restructuring of the Vsper Operating Companies, which resulted in our holding direct and indirect controlling ownership interests in the Vsper Operating Companies. On December 2, 2003 (the Closing Date), Embratel Participaes S.A. (Embratel) acquired our direct and indirect ownership interests in the Vsper Operating Companies (the Embratel sale transaction) for no consideration. The Vsper Operating Companies existing communication towers and related interests in tower site property leases (Vsper Towers) were not included in the Embratel sale transaction, and as such, we effectively retained, through a new wholly owned subsidiary (TowerCo), ownership and control of the Vsper Towers. The Vsper Towers had a net book value of approximately $5 million at December 28, 2003. Concurrent with the closing, the Vsper Operating Companies entered into a 10 year agreement (renewable at the Vsper Operating Companies option for up to two successive 5 year terms) whereby the Vsper Operating Companies would pay a monthly fee to us for use of aerial and ground space on the tower sites. We provided approximately $6 million to fund operations of the Vsper Operating Companies during the first quarter of fiscal 2004 prior to their sale and additionally provided approximately $39 million in aggregate funding to or for the benefit of the Vsper Operating Companies on or before the Closing Date to facilitate the Embratel sale transaction. Such funding enabled the Vsper Operating Companies to completely extinguish their existing local bank debt (at an agreed discount) to allow us to retain ownership of the Vsper Towers free and clear of any local bank security interest. The major classes of assets and liabilities sold in the Embratel sale transaction included: $25 million in accounts receivable, $5 million in inventory, $24 million in other current assets, $95 million in property, plant and equipment, $6 million in other assets, $52 million in accounts payable, $5 million in payroll and other benefits related liabilities, $6 million in unearned revenue, $1 million in other current liabilities, $14 million in long term debt and $3 million in other liabilities. We realized a net loss of $52 million on the Embratel sale transaction during the first quarter of fiscal 2004, including a $74 million loss on the net assets sold to Embratel and a $46 million loss related to the recognition of cumulative foreign currency translation losses previously included in stockholders equity, partially offset by $68 million in gains related to the extinguishment of local bank debt and the settlement of other liabilities. On November 19, 2002, we won bids to acquire personal mobile service (SMP) licenses in certain regions of Brazil. Approximately $8 million of the approximate $82 million purchase price for the SMP licenses was paid in December 2002. The remaining Brazilian real denominated obligation was financed by the Brazilian government at an interest rate of 12% per annum, plus an adjustment for inflation. These SMP licenses were not included in the Embratel sale transaction. In December 2003, we initiated a waiver and return of the SMP licenses to Anatel, the telecommunications regulatory agency in Brazil. In February 2004, the waiver and return of the SMP licenses was approved by Anatel, and the license debt was extinguished. We realized a net gain of $19 million as a result of the removal of the $104 million SMP licenses and the related $123 million debt and accrued interest during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. 47 Table of Contents On March 2, 2004, we sold TowerCo to Embratel in a separately negotiated transaction (the TowerCo sale transaction) for $45 million in cash. TowerCos assets were primarily comprised of $5 million in property, plant and equipment. We realized a net gain of $40 million on the TowerCo sale transaction during the second quarter of fiscal 2004. As a result of the disposition of the remaining operations and assets related to the Vsper Operating Companies, we determined that the results of operations and cash flows related to the Vsper Operating Companies, including the results related to TowerCo and the SMP licenses and the gains and losses realized on the Embratel and TowerCo sales transactions, should be presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. Our statements of operations and cash flows for all prior periods have been adjusted to present the discontinued operations. For fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, revenues of $36 million, $123 million and $125 million, respectively, were reported in the loss from discontinued operations. At September 30, 2004, we had no remaining assets or liabilities related to the Vsper Operating Companies, TowerCo or the SMP licenses recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Prepayment of the Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V. Loan Facility. We had various financing arrangements, including a bridge loan facility, an equipment loan facility, interim and additional interim loan facilities, with Pegaso Comunicaciones y Sistemas S.A. de C.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V., a CDMA wireless operator in Mexico (collectively referred to as Pegaso). On September 10, 2002, Telefnica Mviles (Telefnica) acquired a 65% controlling interest in Pegaso. On October 10, 2002, Pegaso paid $82 million in full satisfaction of the interim and additional interim loans. On November 8, 2002, Pegaso paid $435 million in full satisfaction of the bridge loan facility. We used approximately $139 million of the bridge loan proceeds to purchase outstanding vendor debt owed by Pegaso to other lenders. On June 13, 2003, Pegaso prepaid $281 million of the equipment loan facility, including accrued interest, in accordance with certain terms of the equipment loan facility. On December 15, 2003, Pegaso prepaid $193 million, including accrued interest, in full satisfaction of the equipment loan facility. We recognized $12 million, $41 million and $9 million in interest income related to the Pegaso financing arrangements during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, including $10 million and $23 million of deferred interest income recorded as a result of the prepayments in fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. Investment in Inquam Limited. We have invested $200 million in the convertible preferred shares of Inquam Limited (Inquam) for an approximate 42% ownership interest in Inquam. Inquam owns, develops and manages wireless communications systems, either directly or indirectly, with the intent of deploying CDMA based technology, primarily in Europe. Starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2003, we and another investor (the Other Investor) also extended $117 million in bridge loan financings to Inquam, including $31 million in bridge loan funding put in place during fiscal 2004. We funded our approximate $58 million share of these bridge loans and had no remaining funding commitment at September 30, 2004. Inquam is a variable interest entity. We do not consolidate Inquam because we are not the primary beneficiary. We use the equity method to account for our investment in Inquam. We recorded $59 million, $99 million and $45 million in equity in losses of Inquam during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. At September 30, 2004, our equity and debt investments in Inquam totaled $42 million, net of equity in losses. On September 22, 2003, we agreed, along with the Other Investor, to guarantee the payment of amounts due by Inquam under a bank credit agreement. During fiscal 2004, we and the Other Investor agreed to extend the guarantee and increase the maximum amount subject to the guarantee to $55 million. Our maximum liability under the guarantee is limited to an amount equal to 50% of the amounts outstanding under Inquams credit agreement, up to a maximum of approximately $28 million. Amounts outstanding under the bank credit agreement totaled $53 million as of September 30, 2004. The guarantee expires on November 30, 2004 when the bank credit facility matures. Inquam is currently working with the bank and other potential lenders to secure long term take out financing to repay the existing loan on the maturity date. It is possible that we and the Other Investor may provide additional guarantees in connection with such take out financing. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we and the Other Investor committed to fund an additional $2 million each. While we have no other obligations to provide funding to Inquam, we continue to have active discussions with Inquam and the Other Investor concerning the necessary funding for all or a part of Inquams business plan, potential restructuring and investment by other parties. While we may provide some additional funding and or credit support in furtherance of Inquams business plan, the amount and form of such support is unknown, and none will be provided without commensurate support or consideration being provided by the Other Investor. If Inquam or its 48 Table of Contents operating companies cannot raise the funding needed for its business plan, Inquams growth potential and the value of our investment in Inquam may be negatively affected. Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2004 were $4,880 million, compared to $3,847 million for fiscal 2003. Revenues from Samsung, LG Electronics and Motorola, customers of our QCT and QTL segments, comprised an aggregate of 15%, 15% and 10% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2004, compared to 17%, 13% and 13% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2003. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2004 were $3,514 million, compared to $2,862 million for fiscal 2003. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased $652 million, resulting primarily from an increase of $994 million related to higher unit shipments of MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, partially offset by a decrease of $331 million related to the effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2004 were $1,366 million, compared to $985 million for fiscal 2003. The increase resulted primarily from higher QTL segment royalties, resulting primarily from an increase in phone and infrastructure equipment sales by our licensees at higher average selling prices, partially offset by the effect of the change in timing of recognizing royalties to an as reported method during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Royalty revenues recorded in fiscal 2004 excluded $151 million of royalties that were reported by licensees in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, but estimated and recorded as revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Royalties reported to us by licensees in fiscal 2004 were $1,292 million as compared to $837 million in fiscal 2003. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2004 was $1,484 million, compared to $1,268 million for fiscal 2003. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 42% for fiscal 2004, compared to 44% for fiscal 2003. The margin percentage improvement in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 was primarily due to the increase in QCT revenues as a percentage of total equipment and services revenues, resulting in increased QCT margin relative to the total. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2004, research and development expenses were $720 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $523 million or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2003. The dollar and percentage increases in research and development expenses primarily resulted from a $187 million increase in costs related to integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products, including CDMA2000 1xEV DO, WCDMA, MediaFLO and HSDPA. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2004, selling, general and administrative expenses were $568 million or 12% of revenues, compared to $471 million or 12% of revenues for fiscal 2003. The dollar increase was primarily due to a $61 million increase in employee related expenses, a $21 million increase in professional fees, primarily patent administration and other legal costs, and outside services, and a $12 million increase related to a charitable grant to an educational institution for the primary purpose of furthering the study of engineering and math. Asset Impairment and Related Charges. There were no asset impairment charges in fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2003, we recorded a $34 million impairment loss on our wireless licenses in Australia due to developments that affected potential strategic alternatives for using the spectrum. The impairment loss recognized was the difference between the assets carrying values and their estimated fair values. Other Operating Income. For fiscal 2004, other operating income was $26 million, compared to $30 million in fiscal 2003. Other operating income during fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from the transfers of portions of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction discount vouchers value (ADV) to a wireless operator. Other operating income during fiscal 2003 resulted from $47 million of other income related to the transfer of portions of the FCC auction discount vouchers value to two wireless operators, offset by a $16 million charge related to the write down of notes receivable from an early stage CDMA wireless operator and an early stage media company. 49 Table of Contents Net Investment Income (Expense). Net investment income was $184 million for fiscal 2004, compared to net investment expense of $8 million for fiscal 2003. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003* Change Interest income: QSI $ 14 $ 45 $ (31 ) Corporate and other segments 161 113 48 Interest expense (2 ) (2 ) Net realized gains on investments: QSI 56 63 (7 ) Corporate 32 17 15 Other than temporary losses on marketable securities (12 ) (100 ) 88 Other than temporary losses on other investments (28 ) 28 Gains (losses) on derivative instruments 7 (3 ) 10 Equity in losses of investees (72 ) (113 ) 41 $ 184 $ (8 ) $ 192 * As adjusted for discontinued operations. The increase in interest income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates earned on these balances, and $6 million in interest income recorded as a result of a refund from the United States Internal Revenue Service. The decrease in QSI interest income was primarily the result of the prepayment on the Pegaso debt facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2003 primarily related to an $81 million impairment of our investment in a wireless operator in South Korea and a $16 million impairment of our investment in a provider of semiconductor packaging, test and distribution services. The other than temporary losses on other investments during fiscal 2003 related to the impairment of our investments in two development stage CDMA wireless operators. Equity in losses of investees decreased primarily due to a decrease in losses incurred by Inquam, of which our share was $59 million for fiscal 2004 as compared to $99 million for fiscal 2003. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense from continuing operations was $588 million for fiscal 2004, compared to $536 million for fiscal 2003. The annual effective tax rate for continuing operations was approximately 25% for fiscal 2004, compared to 34% for fiscal 2003. The annual effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal 2004 was lower than the 2003 effective tax rate for continuing operations primarily due to an increase in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate, an increase in tax benefits recorded arising from the forecast of our ability to use capital loss carryforwards and the reduction of QTL earnings, which are taxed at a rate that is lower than our effective tax rate, as a percentage of total earnings due to the change in the timing of recognizing QTL royalties. Foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate are higher in fiscal 2004 primarily due to the adjustment of an intercompany royalty agreement and an increase in foreign earnings. The annual effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal 2004 is 10% lower than the United States federal statutory rate due primarily to a benefit of approximately 14% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, research and development tax credits and the forecast of our increased ability to use capital loss carryforwards, partially offset by state taxes of 4%. As of September 30, 2004, we had a valuation allowance of $139 million on previously incurred capital losses due to uncertainty as to our ability to generate sufficient capital gains to utilize all capital losses. We will continue to assess the realizability of capital losses. The amount of the valuation allowance on capital losses may be adjusted in the future as our ability to utilize capital losses changes. A change in the valuation allowance may impact the provision for income taxes in the period the change occurs. We are currently considering actions that may result in our ability to utilize some of the capital loss currently reserved, which may result in a reduction of our valuation allowance and income tax expense in subsequent periods. 50 Table of Contents Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2003 were $3,847 million, compared to $2,915 million for fiscal 2002. Revenues from Samsung, LG Electronics, Motorola and Kyocera, customers of our QCT, QTL and other nonreportable segments, comprised an aggregate of 17%, 13%, 13% and 9% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2003, compared to 16%, 12%, 8% and 14% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. The percentages for Kyocera included 1% and 4% in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to services provided to Kyocera by employees from our terrestrial based CDMA wireless consumer phone business which was sold to Kyocera in February 2000. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2003 were $2,862 million, compared to $2,080 million for fiscal 2002. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased by $828 million, primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2003 were $985 million, compared to $835 million for fiscal 2002. The increase resulted from higher QTL segment royalties, resulting from an increase in phone sales by our licensees. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2003 was $1,268 million, compared to $954 million for fiscal 2002. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 44% for fiscal 2003, compared to 46% for fiscal 2002. The margin percentage improvement in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily due to the increase in QCT revenues as a percentage of total equipment and services revenues, resulting in increased QCT margin relative to the total. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2003, research and development expenses were $523 million or 14% of revenues, compared to $452 million or 16% of revenues for fiscal 2002. The dollar increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to an $84 million increase in costs primarily related to increased engineering resources for integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products, including CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO/1xEV DV, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, WLAN, WCDMA and radioOne technologies, partially offset by an $11 million reduction in research and development efforts supporting the QGOV division of the QWI segment and a $3 million reduction of support efforts related to the Globalstar business. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2003, selling, general and administrative expenses were $471 million or 12% of revenues, compared to $401 million or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2002. The dollar increase was primarily due to a $27 million increase in employee related expenses, a $12 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, a $6 million increase in professional fees, primarily patent administration and outside services, and a $6 million increase related to international marketing and support efforts. Amortization of Goodwill and Other Acquisition Related Intangible Assets. For fiscal 2003, amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangible assets was $8 million, compared to $259 million for fiscal 2002. Starting in fiscal 2003, we no longer record goodwill amortization as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142. Amortization charges were primarily related to the acquisition of SnapTrack in March 2000. Asset Impairment and Related Charges. For fiscal 2003, asset impairment and related charges were $34 million, compared to less than $1 million of such charges in fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2003, we recorded a $34 million impairment loss on our wireless licenses in Australia due to developments that affected potential strategic alternatives for using the spectrum. The impairment loss recognized was the difference between the assets carrying values and their estimated fair values. Other Operating Income. For fiscal 2003, other operating income was $30 million, compared to other operating expense of $9 million in fiscal 2002. Other operating income during fiscal 2003 resulted from $47 million of other income related to the transfer of portions of the FCC auction discount vouchers value to two wireless operators, offset by a $16 million charge related to the write down of notes receivable from an early stage CDMA wireless operator and an early stage media company. Other operating expenses during fiscal 2002 resulted from the write down of a note receivable from an early stage CDMA wireless operator. 51 Table of Contents Net Investment Income (Expense). Net investment expense was $8 million for fiscal 2003, compared to $218 million for fiscal 2002. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2003* 2002* Change Interest income: QSI $ 45 $ 26 $ 19 Corporate and other segments 113 102 11 Interest expense (2 ) (1 ) (1 ) Net realized gains on investments: QSI 63 2 61 Corporate 17 17 Other than temporary losses on marketable securities (100 ) (206 ) 106 Other than temporary losses on other investments (28 ) (25 ) (3 ) Losses on derivative instruments (3 ) (58 ) 55 Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries (1 ) 1 Equity in losses of investees (113 ) (57 ) (56 ) $ (8 ) $ (218 ) $ 210 * As adjusted for discontinued operations. The increase in interest income on corporate cash and marketable securities was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates earned on these balances. The increase in QSI interest income was primarily the result of $23 million of deferred interest income recorded as a result of a prepayment on Pegaso debt facilities in fiscal 2003. The net realized gains on investments during fiscal 2003 primarily related to the sale of a portion of our investment in United Online. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2003 primarily related to an $81 million impairment of our investment in a wireless operator in South Korea and a $16 million impairment of our investment in a provider of semiconductor packaging, test and distribution services. The other than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2002 primarily related to $162 million and $18 million in losses on our investments in Leap Wireless bonds and common stock, respectively. The losses on derivative instruments during fiscal 2002 primarily resulted from movements in the price of Leap Wireless common stock, which affected the fair values of our warrants to acquire Leap Wireless stock. Equity in losses of investees primarily increased due to an increase in losses incurred by Inquam, of which our share was $99 million for fiscal 2003 as compared to $45 million for fiscal 2002. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense from continuing operations was $536 million for fiscal 2003, compared to $97 million for fiscal 2002. The annual effective tax rate from continuing operations was approximately 34% for fiscal 2003, compared to a rate of 16% for fiscal 2002. The annual effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal 2003 was lower than the combined federal and state statutory tax rate of approximately 39%, primarily due to foreign earnings that were taxed at less than the United States federal rate. The reduction was partially offset by capital losses for which we had not recorded a tax benefit. The fiscal 2003 effective tax rate for continuing operations was higher than the fiscal 2002 effective tax rate for continuing operations primarily due to the reduction of valuation allowances in fiscal 2002 that were previously charged to income tax expense, partially offset by the amortization of non deductible goodwill in fiscal 2002. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results of fiscal 2004 and 2003 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2004 were $3,094 million, compared to $2,406 million for fiscal 2003. Equipment and services revenues, primarily from MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, were $3,026 million for fiscal 2004, compared to $2,374 million for fiscal 2003. The increase in MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits revenue was comprised of $994 million related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a 52 Table of Contents decrease of $331 million related to the effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Approximately 137 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2004, compared to approximately 99 million for fiscal 2003. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2004 were $1,043 million, compared to $797 million for fiscal 2003. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 34% in fiscal 2004, compared to 33% in fiscal 2003. The operating margin percentage in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 increased slightly primarily as a result of the increase in gross margin percentage, partially offset by a 40% increase in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses were $154 million higher and $54 million higher, respectively, for fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily associated with increased investment in new integrated circuit products and technology research, development and marketing initiatives to support multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multiband, multimode, multinetwork products including CDMA2000 1xEV DO, WCDMA and HSDPA. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2004 were $1,331 million, compared to $1,000 million for fiscal 2003. Royalty revenues from external licensees were $1,141 million in fiscal 2004, compared to $838 million in fiscal 2003. Royalty revenues recorded in fiscal 2004 excluded $151 million of royalties that were reported by external licensees in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, but estimated and recorded as revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Royalties reported to us by external licensees in fiscal 2004 were $1,292 million, as compared to $837 million in fiscal 2003. Revenues from license fees were $59 million in both fiscal 2004 and 2003. Other revenues were comprised of intersegment royalties. During each of fiscal 2004 and 2003, we recognized $5 million in revenue related to equity received as license fees. The following table summarizes royalty related data for external licensees (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003 Estimate recorded for the fourth quarter of the prior year (Prior Year Fourth Quarter) for Estimated Licensees $ 151 $ 150 Royalties reported in the first quarter of the current year by Estimated Licensees for Prior Year Fourth Quarter 208 167 Prior Year Fourth Quarter variance included in current year 57 17 Other royalties reported in current year 1,084 670 Estimate recorded for the fourth quarter of the current year for Estimated Licensees 151 Total current year royalty revenues from external licensees $ 1,141 $ 838 For example, for fiscal 2003, we estimated royalties of $151 million from the Estimated Licensees for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. The actual royalties reported to us by the Estimated Licensees, on a one quarter lag basis, during the first quarter of fiscal 2004 were $208 million. The variance of $57 million recorded in royalty revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 was primarily attributable to greater phone sales at higher average prices by our Estimated Licensees than we had anticipated. To achieve these phone unit volumes, we believe that our Estimated Licensees reduced their integrated circuit inventories in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Total royalty revenues from licensees for fiscal 2004 of $1,141 million included: 1) the prior year fourth quarter variance of $57 million and 2) other royalties reported by licensees during fiscal 2004 of $1,084 million. We did not estimate royalty revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 as we no longer believe that we have the ability to reliably estimate such amounts. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2004 were $1,195 million, compared to $897 million for fiscal 2003. QTLs operating margin percentage was 90% in fiscal 2004, compared to 89% in fiscal 2003. The increase in both revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees, resulting from higher demand for CDMA products across all major regions of CDMA deployment at higher average selling prices, partially offset by the change in our ability to estimate royalties. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2004 were $596 million, compared to $511 million for fiscal 2003. Revenues increased primarily due to a $58 million increase in QWBS revenue and a $37 million increase in QIS revenue. As a result of the adoption of EITF No. 00 21 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, QWBS started recording 53 Table of Contents revenue for certain equipment sales upon shipment instead of amortizing the related revenue over a future period. The amortization of QWBS equipment revenue that was deferred in the periods prior to the adoption of EITF No. 00 21 will continue with a declining impact through 2008. QWBS amortized $76 million in revenue related to such prior period equipment sales in fiscal 2004, compared to $95 million in fiscal 2003, including $23 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 after the adoption of EITF No. 00 21. The net increase in QWBS revenue is primarily attributable to the accounting change for certain equipment sales, with a smaller contribution from a $14 million increase in messaging revenue as a result of a larger installed base. QWBS shipped approximately 53,000 OmniTRACS and other related communications systems during fiscal 2004, compared to approximately 38,000 in fiscal 2003. The increase in QIS revenue is primarily attributable to a $53 million increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products, partially offset by a $19 million decrease in QChat revenue resulting from the wind down of development efforts under the licensing agreement with Nextel. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2004 were $30 million, compared to $27 million for fiscal 2003. QWIs operating margin percentage was 5% in both fiscal 2004 and 2003. The increase in QWIs earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $31 million increase in QIS gross margin largely resulting from the increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products, offset by a $30 million increase in QWI research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. QWIs operating margin percentage remained flat in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to a decline in QWBS gross margin percentage, offset by an improvement in QIS gross margin percentage. The decline in QWBS gross margin percentage in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 is primarily attributable to an increase in equipment sales, with margins that were lower than the margins on messaging services, as a percentage of total QWBS revenue. The improvement in QIS gross margin percentage is primarily attributable to the increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, QWBS began the process of moving high volume, standard product manufacturing to Mexico to reduce manufacturing costs. The low volume, prototype and new product manufacturing activities will remain in San Diego. The move is anticipated to be completed by the third quarter of fiscal 2005. QWBS may incur additional costs in the near term as a result of this move. In connection with this activity, we continue to evaluate other low cost manufacturing opportunities. QSI Segment. QSIs losses before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2004 were $3 million, compared to $168 million for fiscal 2003. Equity in losses of investees decreased by $42 million primarily due to a decrease in losses incurred by Inquam during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003, of which our share was $59 million for fiscal 2004 as compared to $99 million for fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2004, we recorded $12 million in other than temporary losses on marketable securities and other investments as compared to $127 million for fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2003, we also recorded a $34 million impairment loss on our wireless licenses in Australia due to developments that affected strategic alternatives for using the spectrum. These improvements in QSIs losses before taxes were partially offset by a $31 million decrease in interest income resulting from the prepayment of the Pegaso debt facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002 QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2003 were $2,406 million, compared to $1,575 million for fiscal 2002. Equipment and services revenues, primarily from MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, were $2,374 million for fiscal 2003, compared to $1,546 million for fiscal 2002. The increase in MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits revenue was primarily related to higher unit shipments. Approximately 99 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2003, compared to approximately 65 million for fiscal 2002. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $797 million, compared to $438 million for fiscal 2002. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues was 33% in fiscal 2003, compared to 28% in fiscal 2002. The operating margin percentage in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 increased primarily as a result of the 53% increase in revenues as compared to the 17% increase in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. Research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses were $58 million higher and $17 million higher, respectively, for fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002, primarily associated with increased investment in new integrated circuit products and technology research, development and marketing initiatives to support multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multiband, multimode, multinetwork products including CDMA2000, 1xEV DO/1xEV DV and WCDMA. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2003 were $1,000 million, compared to $847 million for fiscal 2002. Royalty revenues from external licensees were $838 million in fiscal 2003, compared to $725 million in fiscal 2002. 54 Table of Contents Revenues from license fees were $59 million in fiscal 2003, compared to $55 million in fiscal 2002. Other revenues were comprised of intersegment royalties. During fiscal 2003, we recognized $5 million in revenue related to equity received as license fees, compared to $6 million in fiscal 2002. The following table summarizes royalty related data for external licensees (in millions): Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 Estimate recorded for the fourth quarter of the prior year (Prior Year Fourth Quarter) for Estimated Licensees $ 150 $ 122 Royalties reported in the first quarter of the current year by Estimated Licensees for Prior Year Fourth Quarter 167 146 Prior Year Fourth Quarter variance included in current year 17 24 Other royalties reported in current year 670 551 Estimate recorded for the fourth quarter of the current year for Estimated Licensees 151 150 Total current year royalty revenues from external licensees $ 838 $ 725 For example, for fiscal 2002, we estimated royalties of $150 million from the Estimated Licensees for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. The actual royalties reported to us by the Estimated Licensees, on a one quarter lag basis, during the first quarter of fiscal 2003 were $167 million. The variance of $17 million recorded in royalty revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 was primarily attributable to greater phone sales at higher average prices by our Estimated Licensees than we had anticipated. Total royalty revenues from licensees for fiscal 2003 of $838 million included: 1) the prior year fourth quarter variance of $17 million, 2) other royalties reported by licensees during fiscal 2003 of $670 million and 3) the estimate made for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 of $151 million based upon Estimated Licensees estimated sales during that quarter, which we estimated would be reported by the Estimated Licensees in the first quarter of fiscal 2004. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $897 million, compared to $756 million for fiscal 2002. QTLs operating margin percentage was 89% in both fiscal 2003 and 2002. The increase in both revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees, resulting from higher demand for CDMA products across all major regions of CDMA deployment. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2003 were $511 million, compared to $460 million for fiscal 2002. Revenues increased primarily due to a $19 million increase in QWBS revenue, an $11 million increase in revenue related to the sale of test equipment used primarily in testing WCDMA networks, a $10 million increase in QGOV revenue, primarily as a result of license revenue related to the sale of the Technicolor Digital Cinema, LLC joint venture, and an $11 million increase in software and services revenue related to our QPoint and BREW products. As a result of the adoption of EITF No. 00 21 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, QWBS started recording revenue for certain equipment sales upon shipment instead of amortizing the related revenue over a future period. QWBS amortized $95 million in revenue related to such prior period equipment sales in fiscal 2003, including $23 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 after the adoption of EITF No. 00 21, compared to $103 million in fiscal 2002. The net increase in QWBS revenue is primarily attributable to the accounting change for certain equipment sales and a $14 million increase in messaging revenue as a result of a larger installed base. QWBS shipped approximately 38,000 OmniTRACS and other related communications systems during fiscal 2003, compared to approximately 46,000 in fiscal 2002. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2003 were $27 million, compared to earnings before losses of $7 million for fiscal 2002. QWIs operating margin percentage was 5% in fiscal 2003, compared to negative 1% in fiscal 2002. The increase in QWIs earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $25 million increase in QWBS gross margin. The increase in QWBS gross margin was primarily attributable to $11 million in gross margin amortized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 related to equipment sales in prior periods, while equipment sales during the fourth quarter were recognized upon shipment, a $12 million increase in messaging services which have higher gross margins than equipment sales and the effect of a $6 million release of warranty reserves resulting from the substantial completion of a QWBS warranty program. The improvement in QWIs operating margin percentage in fiscal 2003 as 55 Table of Contents compared to fiscal 2002 was primarily related to the decrease in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of QWIs revenues. QSI Segment. QSIs losses before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2003 were $168 million, compared to $346 million for fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2003, we recorded a $97 million decrease in other than temporary losses on marketable securities and a $55 million decrease in losses on derivative instruments. Equity in losses of investees increased by $56 million primarily due to an increase in losses incurred by Inquam, of which our share was $99 million for fiscal 2003 as compared to $45 million for fiscal 2002. During fiscal 2003, we also recorded other income of $47 million related to the transfer of portions of the FCC auction discount voucher value to two wireless operators, partially offset by a $34 million impairment loss on our wireless licenses in Australia due to developments that affected strategic alternatives for using the spectrum. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $7.6 billion at September 30, 2004, an increase of $2.3 billion from September 30, 2003. The increase during fiscal 2004 was primarily the result of $2.5 billion in cash provided by operating activities, $330 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and $196 million in net collections on finance receivables, mainly comprised of the prepayment from Pegaso, partially offset by $332 million in capital expenditures, $308 million in dividend payments and $70 million invested in other entities and acquisitions. Accounts receivable increased by 20% during fiscal 2004. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the increase in sales of integrated circuits, partially offset by the effect of the change in the timing of recognizing royalties. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 43 days at September 30, 2004, compared to 48 days at September 30, 2003. The change in days sales outstanding is primarily attributable to the effect of the change in the timing of recognizing royalties. In February 2003, we authorized the expenditure of up to $1 billion to repurchase shares of our common stock over a two year period. In fiscal 2003, we bought 9,830,000 shares at a net aggregate cost of $158 million. While we did not repurchase any of our common stock during fiscal 2004, we continue to evaluate repurchases under this program. In connection with our stock repurchase program, we sold put options in March 2004 that could have required us to purchase 3,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise. We repurchased all of the put options in July 2004. We recorded $5 million in premiums received for the put options as investment income. At September 30, 2004, $834 million remains authorized for repurchases under the program. We announced dividends totaling approximately $307 million and $135 million, or $0.190 and $0.085 per share, during fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on current business plans, including investments in other companies and other assets to support the growth of our business, financing for customers of CDMA infrastructure products in accordance with the agreements with Ericsson, financing under agreements with CDMA telecommunications operators, other commitments, the payment of dividends and possible additional stock buy backs. We started construction of two facilities in San Diego, California in fiscal 2003, totaling approximately one million additional square feet, to meet the requirements projected in our long term business plan. The remaining cost of these new facilities is expected to be approximately $250 million through fiscal 2007. We recently announced our plans to expand our current Network Operations Center in Las Vegas, Nevada, which uses GPS and other technologies to track freight transportation and shipping nationwide. We expect the cost of this expansion will be approximately $52 million through fiscal 2007. We expect to place the new and expanded facilities in service starting in fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2007. We intend to continue our strategic investment activities to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and the growth of CDMA based wireless data and wireless Internet products, although to a lesser extent than in prior years. As part of these investment activities, we may provide financing to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment by authorized suppliers. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources including potential debt and equity issuance. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we and the Other Investor in Inquam committed to fund an additional $2 million each. While we have no other obligations to provide funding to Inquam, we continue to have active discussions with Inquam and the Other Investor concerning the necessary funding for all or part of Inquams business 56 Table of Contents plan, potential restructuring and investment by other parties. While we may provide some additional funding and or credit support in furtherance of Inquams business plan, the amount and form of such support is unknown, and none will be provided without commensurate support or consideration being provided by the Other Investor. Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets or fully disclosed in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 30, 2004, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period No Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Beyond Fiscal Expiration Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009 Date Long term financing under Ericsson arrangement (1) $ 118 $ $ $ $ $ 118 Purchase obligations 949 885 60 4 Operating leases 111 45 52 11 3 Equity investments (1) 19 19 Inquam guarantee 28 28 Other commitments 1 1 Total commitments 1,226 959 112 15 3 137 Other long term liabilities (2) 90 8 22 60 Total recorded liabilities 90 8 22 60 Total $ 1,316 $ 959 $ 120 $ 37 $ 3 $ 197 (1) These commitments do not have fixed funding dates. Amounts are presented based on the expiration of the commitment, but actual funding may occur earlier or not at all as funding is subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts. (2) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenue, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 30, 2004 is provided in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3 Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions, Finance Receivables, Note 4 Investments in Other Entities and Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies. Future Accounting Requirements In June 2004, the FASB issued EITF Issue No. 02 14, Whether an Investor Should Apply the Equity Method of Accounting to Investments Other Than Common Stock. EITF Issue No. 02 14 addresses whether the equity method of accounting applies when an investor does not have an investment in voting common stock of an investee but exercises significant influence through other means. EITF Issue No. 02 14 states that an investor should only apply the equity method of accounting when it has investments in either common stock or in substance common stock of a corporation, provided that the investor has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee. The accounting provisions of EITF Issue No. 02 14 are effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. We are in the process of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of EITF Issue No. 02 14 will have on our financial statements. In March 2004, the FASB issued EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments which provides new guidance for assessing impairment losses on debt and equity investments. Additionally, EITF Issue No. 03 1 includes new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed to be temporarily impaired. In September 2004, the FASB delayed the accounting provisions of EITF Issue No. 03 1; however, the disclosure requirements remain effective and have been adopted for our year ended September 30, 2004. We will evaluate the effect, if any, of EITF 03 1 when final guidance is released. 57 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest Rate Market Risk. We have fixed income securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities. We also have diversified portfolios of non investment grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers, which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our investment grade fixed income portfolios. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. Our fixed income investments have grown significantly in size and are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. If the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate and our fixed income investments could lose value. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Marketable Securities for information about investments in marketable debt securities. We have finance receivables and notes receivable (both included in other assets) that bear interest at fixed rates. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions for information about finance receivables. Finance receivables and notes that bear interest at fixed rates could lose value if interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For our fixed income investment portfolio, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average yield at cost. For our finance receivables and notes receivable, the table presents contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single Fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Maturity Total Value Fixed income securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 458 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 458 $ 457 Interest rate 1.5 % Held to maturity securities $ 10 $ 130 $ $ $ $ $ $ 140 $ 142 Interest rate 1.5 % 1.7 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 825 $ 803 $ 805 $ 59 $ 63 $ 39 $ 2,054 $ 4,648 $ 4,648 Interest rate 1.9 % 2.2 % 2.3 % 2.7 % 2.1 % 2.9 % 2.0 % Non investment grade $ 1 $ 3 $ 6 $ 20 $ 61 $ 481 $ $ 572 $ 572 Interest rate 1.1 % 7.0 % 8.9 % 9.7 % 8.7 % 8.5 % Finance receivables in other assets $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 2 Interest rate 8.0 % Notes receivable in other assets $ $ 2 $ $ $ $ 87 $ $ 89 $ 60 Interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % Equity Price Market Risk. We hold a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, equity mutual fund shares and derivative instruments subject to equity price risk. The recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $765 million at September 30, 2004 from $140 million at September 30, 2003. The recorded value of equity mutual fund shares was $296 million at September 30, 2004. The recorded value of derivative instrument assets, mainly comprised of warrants, subject to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (FAS 133) Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, at September 30, 2004 was $4 million. We generally invest in companies in the high technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. The portfolios concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the portfolios price volatility. During the last three years, many technology stocks experienced significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair values of our 58 Table of Contents available for sale equity securities and derivative instruments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund shares at September 30, 2004 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $106 million. Our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. Accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. Additionally, we do not anticipate any near term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in managements objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. The recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $162 million at September 30, 2004. Additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operating Results in this Annual Report. Foreign Exchange Market Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. Derivative financial instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 30, 2004, the value of our foreign currency forward contracts was insignificant, and there were no foreign currency option contracts outstanding. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements The Company and its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. Finance receivables and notes receivable from international operators and customers that do not use the United States dollar as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk. Because our financing is U.S. dollar denominated, any significant change in the value of the U.S. dollar against the debtors functional currencies could result in an increase in the debtors cash flow requirements and could thereby affect our ability to collect our receivables. At September 30, 2004, finance and note receivables from international operators and customers totaled $2 million, net of allowances. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
