Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Recent Highlights Revenues for fiscal 2006 were $7.53 billion, with net income of $2.47 billion. The following recent developments occurred with respect to key elements of our business or our industry: During fiscal 2006: Worldwide wireless subscribers grew by more than 24% to reach approximately 2.5 billion. (1) CDMA subscribers, including both 2G (cdmaOne) and 3G (CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO and WCDMA), grew to 17% of total worldwide wireless subscribers to date. (1) 3G subscribers (all CDMA based) grew to approximately 402 million worldwide through September 2006, including approximately 272 million CDMA2000 1X subscribers, approximately 85 million WCDMA subscribers and approximately 45 million 1xEV DO subscribers. (1) CDMA based handset shipments totaled approximately 255 million units, an increase of 40% over the 182 million units shipped in fiscal 2005. (2) CDMA based handset shipments grew faster than total worldwide handsets and represent an estimated 28% of the total (916 million) worldwide handset shipments, compared to 25% of the total (726 million) shipments in fiscal 2005. (3) Average selling prices of CDMA based handsets were approximately $215, same as the prior year. (2) We shipped approximately 207 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA based phones and data modules (all of which were 3G, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO and WCDMA), an increase of 37%, compared to approximately 151 million MSM integrated circuits in the prior fiscal year. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006: We estimate the ratio of WCDMA reported royalties to total reported royalties was 49%, up from 41% reported in the year ago quarter. We estimate that, in Western Europe, WCDMA handset sales represented approximately 41% of all manufacturer handset sales during the period from April 2006 through June 2006, up from 14% in the year ago quarter. (4) (1) According to Wireless Intelligence, an independent source of wireless operator data. (2) Unit shipments and average selling prices are for the period from July through June based on reports provided during the fiscal year by our licensees/manufacturers. (3) Based on reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm in their Global Handset Market Share Updates. (4) Based on estimates derived from our licensee reports and estimates from the Yankee Group, a global market intelligence and advisory firm in the technology and telecommunications industry. Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, from services and related hardware sales and from software development and licensing and related services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. 45 Table of Contents We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies, or QCT; QUALCOMM Technology Licensing, or QTL; QUALCOMM Wireless Internet, or QWI; and QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, data cards and infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless phones include the Mobile Station Modem (MSM), Radio Frequency (RF) and Power Management (PM) devices. These integrated circuits for wireless phones and system software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and baseband signals and power management. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operators equipment providing wireless standards compliant processing of voice and data signals to and from wireless phones. QCTs system software enables the other phone components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling phone manufacturers to develop handsets utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. In addition to the key components in a wireless system, QCT provides system reference designs and development tools to assist in customizing wireless phones and user interfaces, to integrate our products with components developed by others, and to test interoperability with existing and planned networks. QCT revenues comprised 58%, 58% and 64% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die, cut from silicon wafers, that have completed the assembly and final test manufacturing processes. Die, cut from silicon wafers, are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We rely on independent third party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The majority of our integrated circuits are purchased on a turnkey basis, in which our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. We also employ a two stage manufacturing business model in which we purchase completed die directly from semiconductor manufacturing foundries, and directly manage and contract with third party manufacturers for back end assembly and test services. We refer to this two stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). IBM, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd. and United Microelectronics are the primary foundry suppliers for our family of baseband integrated circuits. Atmel, Freescale (formerly Motorola Semiconductor) and IBM are the primary foundry suppliers for our family of analog, radio frequency and power management integrated circuits. Our fabless model provides us the flexibility to select suppliers that offer advanced process technologies to manufacture, assemble and test our integrated circuits at a competitive price. QTL grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD and or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL receives revenue from license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g. certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 35%, 32% and 27% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The vast majority of such revenues has been generated primarily through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA products. QWI, which includes QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions (QWBS), QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) and QUALCOMM Government Technologies (QGOV), generates revenues primarily through mobile communication products and services, software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QWBS provides satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging, position reporting and wireless application services to transportation companies, private fleets, construction equipment fleets and other enterprise companies. QIS provides BREW based (Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless) products that include user interface and content delivery and management products and services for the wireless industry. QIS also provides QChat and QPoint products and services. QChat enables virtually instantaneous push to talk functionality on CDMA based wireless devices while QPoint enables operators to offer E 911 and location based applications and 46 Table of Contents services. The QGOV division provides development, hardware and analytical expertise to United States government agencies involving wireless communications technologies. QWI revenues comprised 9%, 11% and 12% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. QSI manages the Companys strategic investment activities, including MediaFLO USA, Inc. (MediaFLO USA), the Companys wholly owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI also makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA based products and services. Our strategy is to invest in CDMA based operators, licensed device manufacturers and start up companies that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess unique capabilities or technology. Our MediaFLO USA subsidiary expects to offer a nationwide multicasting network based on our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology. This network is expected to be utilized as a shared resource for wireless operators and their customers in the United States. The commercial availability of the MediaFLO USA network and service will be determined by our wireless operator partners. MediaFLO USAs network will use the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses for a nationwide footprint. Additionally, MediaFLO USA plans to procure, aggregate and distribute content in service packages which we will make available on a wholesale basis to our wireless operator customers (whether they operate on CDMA or GSM/WCDMA networks) in the United States. Distribution, marketing, billing and customer relationships are expected to remain services provided by our wireless operator partners. As part of our strategic investment activities, we may consider various corporate structuring and exit strategies at some point in the future, which may include distribution of our ownership interest in MediaFLO USA to our stockholders in a spin off transaction. Nonreportable segments include: the QUALCOMM Wireless Systems division, which sells products that operate on the Globalstar low Earth orbit satellite based telecommunications system and provides related services; the QUALCOMM MEMS Technologies division, which is developing an iMoD display technology based on micro electro mechanical system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics; the QUALCOMM Flarion Technologies division, which is developing OFDM/OFDMA technologies; and other product initiatives. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks (CDMA2000 and WCDMA) enables higher voice capacity and data rates, thereby supporting more minutes of use and data intensive applications like multimedia. As a result, we expect continued growth in demand for 3G products and services around the world: The deployment of CDMA2000 networks is expected to continue. o More than 170 operators have launched CDMA2000 1X; (1) o More than 50 operators have deployed the higher data speeds of 1xEV DO and several are preparing to deploy EV DO Revision A. (1) GSM operators are expected to continue transitioning to WCDMA networks. o More than 122 GSM operators have migrated their networks to WCDMA; (2) o More than 65 operators have launched commercial HSDPA networks and manufacturers are beginning to trial the faster uplink speeds of HSUPA. (2) We expect WCDMA phone prices to segment into high and low end, with low end prices decreasing significantly as volumes increase and competition intensifies among WCDMA phone manufacturers and integrated circuit suppliers, as happened with CDMA2000. We expect phone market share will change and competition will increase as WCDMA networks grow and expand beyond Japan and Western Europe into the United States and China. To meet growing demand for advanced 3G phones and increased multimedia MSM functionality, we intend to continue to invest significant resources toward the development of multimedia products, software and services for the wireless industry. However, we expect that a portion of our research and development initiatives in fiscal 2007 will not reach commercialization until several years in the future. 47 Table of Contents We expect demand for low end phones to continue, and we have invested resources to develop single chip products, which integrate the baseband, radio frequency and power management chips into one package, lowering component counts and enabling faster time to market. While we are moving aggressively to address the low end market more effectively with CDMA based products, we still face significant competition from GSM based products at the very low end, particularly in Brazil and India. We will continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other technologies as part of our vision to enable a range of technologies, each optimized for specific services, including the following products and technologies: o The BREW applications platform, content delivery services and user interfaces; o The MediaFLO Media Distribution System (MDS) and FLO technology for delivery of multimedia content; o The DO Multicarrier Multilink eXtensions (DMMX) and HSDPA Multicarrier Multilink eXtensions (HMMX) platforms to support the long term roadmaps of 1xEV DO and HSDPA; o OFDM and OFDMA based technologies; o Our iMoD display technology. We will continue to devote resources to working with and educating all participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay fair royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue their attacks on our business model in various forums throughout the world. In addition, our license agreement with Nokia Corp. expires in part on April 9, 2007. If we cannot conclude an extension or a new license agreement beyond that time period, Nokias rights to sell subscriber products under most of our patents will expire, as will our rights to sell integrated circuits under Nokias patents. While we continue to work with Nokia to see if we can reach an agreement, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully resolve this matter before April 9, 2007, and little progress has been made to date. If we are unable to reach agreement, we will aggressively pursue all our legal and business remedies and assume that Nokia will do likewise. Nokia has stated publicly that it does not intend to pay us for its use of our patents prior to the resolution of the dispute. As a result, under generally accepted accounting principles, we will be unable to record royalty revenue attributable to Nokias sales until a court awards damages or agreement is reached, potentially resulting in a negative impact on future royalty revenues reported by our QTL segment. (1) According to public reports made available at www.cdg.org. (2) As reported by the Global mobile Suppliers Association, an international organization of WCDMA and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) suppliers in their September and October 2006 reports. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report. Revenue Concentrations Revenues from customers in South Korea, Japan, China and the United States comprised 32%, 21%, 17% and 13%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006 as compared to 37%, 21%, 11% and 18%, respectively, in fiscal 2005, and 43%, 18%, 7% and 21%, respectively, in fiscal 2004. We distinguish revenue from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. Revenues from customers in China increased as a percentage of total revenues in fiscal 2006 and in fiscal 2005, as compared to the prior years, primarily due to the maturing of CDMA based manufacturers in China that are experiencing wider adoption of their products in international markets for low priced CDMA2000 phones and WCDMA phones. Combined revenues from customers in South Korea, Japan and the United States decreased as a percentage of total revenues, from 82% in fiscal 2004 to 76% in fiscal 2005 and 66% in fiscal 2006, primarily due to increases in the percentage of revenues from WCDMA manufacturers in Western Europe and increased activity by manufacturers in China. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share based payments, income taxes, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that 48 Table of Contents differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from royalties and license fees for our intellectual property, from messaging and other services and related hardware sales and from software development and licensing and related services. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but it is possible that actual results may differ from our estimates. We record reductions to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special pricing agreements and other volume related rebate programs. Such reductions to revenue are estimates, which are based on a number of factors, including our assumptions related to historical and projected customer sales volumes and the contractual provisions of our customer agreements. We license rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD and or the OFDMA standards and their derivatives. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We earn royalties on such licensed CDMA products sold worldwide by our licensees at the time that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter, and, in some instances, although royalties are reported quarterly, payment is on a semi annual basis. During the periods preceding the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we estimated and recorded the royalty revenues earned for sales by certain licensees (the Estimated Licensees) in the quarter in which such sales occurred, but only when reasonable estimates of such amounts could be made. Not all royalties earned were recorded based on estimates. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we determined that, due to escalating and changing business trends, we no longer had the ability to reliably estimate royalty revenues from the Estimated Licensees. These escalating and changing trends included the commercial launches and global expansion of WCDMA networks, changes in market share among licensees due to increased global competition, and increased variability in the integrated circuit and finished product inventories of licensees. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we began recognizing royalty revenues solely based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter. The change in the timing of recognizing royalty revenue was made prospectively and had the initial one time effect of reducing royalty revenues recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of September 24, 2006, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $1.2 billion and $450 million, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. These investments, which are recorded at fair value with increases or decreases generally recorded through stockholders equity as other comprehensive income or loss, totaled $1.3 billion at September 24, 2006. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination 49 Table of Contents that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing a publicly traded investment for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, the performance of the investees stock price in relation to the stock price of its competitors within the industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. In the event our judgments change as to other than temporary declines in value, we may record an impairment loss which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we recorded $15 million, $12 million and $12 million, respectively, in other than temporary losses on our minority investments in publicly traded companies. We hold minority strategic investments in private companies whose values are difficult to determine. These investments totaled $94 million at September 24, 2006. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing investments in private companies for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the share price from the investees latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the investees revenue and cost trends, the investees liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate, and market acceptance of the investees products and services. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. We also consider new products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any significant news that has been released specific to the investee or the investees competitors and or industry and the outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates. In the event our judgments change as to other than temporary declines in value, we may record an impairment loss which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we recorded $4 million and $1 million, respectively, in other than temporary losses on our investments in private companies. Such losses were not significant in fiscal 2004. Share Based Payments. We grant options to purchase our common stock to our employees and directors under our stock option plans. Eligible employees can also purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or the last day of each six month offering period under our employee stock purchase plans. The benefits provided under these plans are share based payments subject to the provisions of revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (FAS 123R), Share Based Payment. Effective September 26, 2005, we use the fair value method to apply the provisions of FAS 123R with a modified prospective application which provides for certain changes to the method for estimating the value of share based compensation. The valuation provisions of FAS 123R apply to new awards and to awards that are outstanding on the effective date, which are subsequently modified or cancelled. Under the modified prospective application method, prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Share based compensation expense recognized under FAS 123R for fiscal 2006 was $495 million. At September 24, 2006, total unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to non vested stock options granted prior to that date was $1.2 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years. Net stock options, after forfeitures and cancellations, granted during fiscal 2006 represented 1.9% of outstanding shares as of the beginning of the fiscal period. Total stock options granted during fiscal 2006 represented 2.1% of outstanding shares as of the end of the fiscal period. Upon adoption of FAS 123R, we began estimating the value of stock option awards on the date of grant using a lattice binomial option pricing model (binomial model). Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, the value of all share based awards was estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model (Black Scholes model) for the pro forma information required to be disclosed under FAS 123. The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. 50 Table of Contents If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of FAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under FAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Therefore, we believe it is important for investors to be aware of the high degree of subjectivity involved when using option pricing models to estimate share based compensation under FAS 123R. Option pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions, are fully transferable and do not cause dilution. Because our share based payments have characteristics significantly different from those of freely traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect our estimates of fair values, in our opinion, existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our share based compensation awards. Consequently, there is a risk that our estimates of the fair values of our share based compensation awards on the grant dates may bear little resemblance to the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of those share based payments in the future. Certain share based payments, such as employee stock options, may expire worthless or otherwise result in zero intrinsic value as compared to the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our consolidated financial statements. Alternatively, value may be realized from these instruments that are significantly in excess of the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our consolidated financial statements. There is not currently a market based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models, nor is there a means to compare and adjust the estimates to actual values. Although the fair value of employee share based awards is determined in accordance with FAS 123R and the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), using an option pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. Estimates of share based compensation expenses are significant to our consolidated financial statements, but these expenses are based on option valuation models and will never result in the payment of cash by us. For this reason, and because we do not view share based compensation as related to our operational performance, we exclude estimated share based compensation expense when evaluating the business performance of our operating segments. The guidance in FAS 123R and SAB 107 is relatively new, and best practices are not well established. The application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time. There are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will adopt different valuation models in the future. This may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of share based payments. It may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. Theoretical valuation models and market based methods are evolving and may result in lower or higher fair value estimates for share based compensation. The timing, readiness, adoption, general acceptance, reliability and testing of these methods is uncertain. Sophisticated mathematical models may require voluminous historical information, modeling expertise, financial analyses, correlation analyses, integrated software and databases, consulting fees, customization and testing for adequacy of internal controls. Market based methods are emerging that, if employed by us, may dilute our earnings per share and involve significant transaction fees and ongoing administrative expenses. The uncertainties and costs of these extensive valuation efforts may outweigh the benefits to investors. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2006 using the binomial model, we used the implied volatility of market traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to the binomial model, consistent with the guidance in FAS 123R and SAB 107. We utilized the term structure of volatility up to approximately two years, and the implied volatility of the option with the longest time to maturity was used for the expected volatility estimates for periods beyond two years. The weighted average volatility assumption was 30.7% for fiscal 2006, which if increased to 37%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2006 by $1.66 per share, or 11%. The volatility percentage assumed for fiscal 2006 was based on the implied volatility of traded options, as compared to the blend of implied and historical volatility data used in prior years. FAS 123R includes implied volatility in its list of factors that should be considered in estimating expected volatility. We believe implied volatility is more useful than historical volatility in estimating expected volatility because it is generally reflective of both historical volatility and expectations of how future volatility will differ from historical volatility. The risk free interest rate is based on the yield curve of U.S. Treasury strip securities for a period consistent with the contractual life of the option in effect at the time of grant. The weighted average risk free interest rate 51 Table of Contents assumption was 4.6% for fiscal 2006, which if increased to 6.5%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2006 by $1.19 per share, or 8%. We do not target a specific dividend yield for our dividend payments, but we are required to assume a dividend yield as an input to the binomial model. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts. The dividend yield assumption was 1.0% for fiscal 2006, which if decreased to 0.4%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2006 by $0.89 per share, or 6%. Dividends and or increases or decreases in dividend payments are subject to board approval as well as to future cash inflows and outflows resulting from operating performance, stock repurchase programs, mergers and acquisitions, and other sources and uses of cash. While our historical dividend rate is assumed to continue in the future, it may be subject to substantial change, and investors should not depend upon this forecast as a reliable indication of future cash distributions that will be made to investors. The post vesting forfeiture rate is estimated using historical option cancellation information. The weighted average post vesting forfeiture rate assumption was 6.0% for fiscal 2006, which if decreased to 1.5%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2006 by $0.88 per share, or 6%. The suboptimal exercise factor is estimated using historical option exercise information. The weighted average suboptimal exercise factor assumption was 1.7 for fiscal 2006, which if increased to 2.0, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2006 by $1.06 per share, or 7%. Income Taxes. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. As part of our assessment of potential adjustments to our tax returns, we increase our current tax liability to the extent an adjustment would result in a cash tax payment or decrease our deferred tax assets to the extent an adjustment would not result in a cash tax payment. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be materially different from those which are reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. As of September 24, 2006, gross deferred tax assets were $914 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results. As of September 24, 2006, we had gross deferred tax assets of $267 million related to capital loss carryforwards. We can only use capital losses to offset capital gains. Based upon our assessments of projected future capital gains and losses and related tax planning strategies, we expect that our future capital gains will not be sufficient to utilize all the capital losses that we have incurred through fiscal 2006. Therefore, we have provided a $16 million valuation allowance for the portion of capital losses we do not expect to utilize. Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future capital gains and the timing of realization of capital losses. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of capital losses and capital gains are reflected in the period the change is made. We consider the operating earnings of certain non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the cumulative amount of which is approximately $2.7 billion as of September 24, 2006. Should we repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the decision to repatriate earnings of foreign subsidiaries is made. 52 Table of Contents Beginning September 26, 2005, we recognize windfall tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options directly to stockholders equity only when realized. Accordingly, deferred tax assets are not recognized for net operating loss carryforwards resulting from windfall tax benefits occurring from September 26, 2005 onward. A windfall tax benefit occurs when the actual tax benefit realized by us upon an employees disposition of a share based award exceeds the deferred tax asset, if any, associated with the award that we had recorded. When assessing whether a tax benefit relating to share based compensation has been realized, we follow the tax law ordering method, under which current year share based compensation deductions are assumed to be utilized before net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. We have not recorded any accrual for contingent liability associated with our legal proceedings based on our belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Acquisitions On January 18, 2006, we completed our acquisition of all of the outstanding capital stock of Flarion Technologies, Inc. (Flarion), a privately held developer of Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing Access (OFDMA) technology for approximately $613 million in consideration, consisting of approximately $349 million in shares of QUALCOMM stock, $229 million in cash, and the exchange of Flarions existing vested options and warrants with an estimated aggregate fair value of approximately $35 million. In addition, we assumed Flarions existing unvested options with an estimated aggregate fair value of $63 million, which is recorded as share based compensation over the requisite service period pursuant to FAS 123R. Upon achievement of certain agreed upon milestones during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we incurred additional aggregate consideration of $197 million, consisting of approximately $185 million in cash (of which $75 million will be payable in July 2007), $8 million in shares of QUALCOMM stock (of which $3 million is issuable in March 2007), and the modification of Flarions existing vested options and warrants with an estimated incremental fair value of approximately $4 million. The additional amounts payable in cash and shares on the milestone date were treated as additional consideration and recorded as goodwill. In addition, the modification of Flarions existing unvested options resulted in an estimated incremental fair value of $7 million, which will be recorded as share based compensation over the requisite service period pursuant to FAS 123R. The acquisition of Flarion is intended to broaden our ability to effectively support operators who may prefer an OFDMA or a hybrid OFDM/CDMA/WCDMA network alternative. The addition of Flarions intellectual property and engineering resources also supplements the resources that we have already dedicated over the years towards the development of OFDM/OFDMA technologies. Strategic Investments in Our QSI Segment Our QSI segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services. QSI segment assets totaled $660 million at September 24, 2006, compared to $442 million at September 25, 2005. Our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, a wireless multimedia operator, is expected to begin commercial operations in 2007. QSIs assets related to MediaFLO USA totaled $329 million and $98 million at September 24, 2006 and September 25, 2005, respectively. We also enter into strategic relationships with CDMA wireless operators and developers of innovative technologies or products for the wireless communications industry. Due to financial and competitive challenges facing wireless operators, we cannot assure you that our investments in or loans to these operators will generate financial returns or that they will result in increased adoption or continued use of CDMA technologies. CDMA wireless operators to whom we have provided funding have limited operating histories, are faced with significant capital requirements and are highly leveraged and or have limited financial resources. If these CDMA wireless operators are not successful, we may have to write down our investments in or loans to these operators. Our QSI segment maintains strategic investments in marketable equity securities classified as available for sale. We strategically invest in companies in the high technology industry and typically do not attempt to reduce or 53 Table of Contents eliminate our exposure to market risks in these investments. The fair values of these strategic investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market price volatility. Our strategic investments in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect price volatility. Downward fluctuations and market trends could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the realizable value of these securities and derivative instruments is subject to market and other conditions. QSI also makes strategic investments in privately held companies, including early stage companies and venture funds. These investments are comprised of equity investments, recorded at cost or under the equity method, and warrants that are recorded at fair value or at cost. The recorded values of these investments may be written down due to changes in the companies conditions or prospects. These strategic investments are inherently risky as the market for the technologies or products the investees are developing may never materialize. As a result, we could lose all or a portion of our investments in these companies, which could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. Most of these strategic investments will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. To the extent such investments become liquid and meet strategic and price objectives, we may sell the investments and recognize the realized gain (loss) in investment income (expense). We regularly monitor and evaluate the realizable value of our investments in both marketable and private securities. If events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of these assets has occurred and is other than temporary, we will record a charge to investment income (expense). In some cases, we make strategic investments that require us to consolidate or record our equity in the losses of early stage companies. The consolidation of these losses can adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to the investments. Key developments in our strategic investments during fiscal 2006 included our ongoing investment in our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, a slow down in the rate of strategic investment, including our investment in Inquam, and realized gains on certain strategic investments. Investment in Inquam Limited. We and another investor (the Other Investor) own minority interests in Inquam Limited (Inquam), a wireless CDMA based operator in Romania, and in Inquams former subsidiaries in Portugal (the Portugal Companies). We recorded $20 million, $33 million and $59 million in equity in losses of Inquam during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, including a $12 million loss resulting from Inquams restructuring during fiscal 2006. At September 24, 2006, our equity and debt investments in Inquam and the Portugal Companies totaled $5 million, net of equity in losses. We and the Other Investor have each guaranteed 50% of a portion of amounts owed under certain of Inquams long term financing arrangements, up to a combined maximum of $53 million. The guarantee expires and the facilities mature on December 25, 2011. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2006 were $7.53 billion, compared to $5.67 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues from three customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments comprised an aggregate of 39% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2006 were $4.78 billion, compared to $3.74 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased $1.00 billion, resulting primarily from an increase of $1.34 billion related primarily to higher unit shipments of MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, partially offset by a decrease of $349 million related to the net effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2006 were $2.75 billion, compared to $1.93 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees increased primarily as a result of a $774 million increase in royalty revenue, consisting primarily of royalties reported to QTL by our external licensees, resulting from an increase in sales of CDMA based products by licensees and the impact of the expiration of one of our royalty sharing obligations. Worldwide demand for CDMA based products has increased primarily as a result of the growth in sales of WCDMA products into markets formerly dominated by GSM products. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2006 was $2.18 billion, compared to $1.65 billion for fiscal 2005. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 46% for fiscal 2006, compared to 44% for fiscal 2005. The decline in margin percentage in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was primarily due to the effect of $41 million in share based compensation during fiscal 2006 as a result of the adoption of FAS123R during fiscal 2006 and a decrease in QCT margin 54 Table of Contents percentage resulting primarily from an increase in product support costs. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2006, research and development expenses were $1.54 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $1.01 billion or 18% of revenues for fiscal 2005. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2006 included share based compensation of $216 million as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R during fiscal 2006 and in process research and development of $22 million resulting from acquisitions, both of which caused the increase in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues. The dollar increase in research and development expenses also included a $272 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support lower cost phones, multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, WCDMA (including GSM/GPRS/EDGE), HSDPA, HSUPA and OFDMA, and the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS and iMoD display products using MEMS technology. We expect that research and development costs will increase in fiscal 2007 as we continue our active support of CDMA based technologies, products and network operations and other product initiatives. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2006, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.12 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $631 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2006 included share based compensation of $238 million as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R during fiscal 2006. The percentage increase was primarily attributable to the share based compensation. The dollar increase was also attributable to a $107 million increase in professional fees, primarily related to legal activities, a $90 million increase in employee related expenses, a $14 million increase in selling and marketing expenses and a $14 million decrease in other income. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $466 million for fiscal 2006, compared to $423 million for fiscal 2005. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 24, 2006 September 25, 2005 Change Interest and dividend income: QSI $ 6 $ 4 $ 2 Corporate and other segments 410 252 158 Interest expense (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Net realized gains on investments: QSI 30 101 (71 ) Corporate 106 78 28 Other than temporary losses on investments (24 ) (14 ) (10 ) (Losses) gains on derivative instruments (29 ) 33 (62 ) Equity in losses of investees (29 ) (28 ) (1 ) $ 466 $ 423 $ 43 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates earned on interest bearing securities. Net realized gains on QSI investments in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from a $48 million gain on our minority investment in a wireless publisher and a $41 million gain on the sale of our investment in a wireless telecommunications company. Losses and gains on derivative instruments in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, related primarily to changes in the fair values of put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program. The change in equity in losses of investees resulted primarily from the decrease in losses recognized by Inquam, of which our share was $20 million and $33 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, partially offset by the effect of investment gains recognized by a venture fund investee in 2005, of which our share was $8 million. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense from continuing operations was $686 million for fiscal 2006, compared to $666 million for fiscal 2005. The annual effective tax rate for continuing operations was approximately 22% for fiscal 2006, compared to 24% for fiscal 2005. The annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 was lower than the annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 primarily due to an increase in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate. 55 Table of Contents The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 was 13% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 17% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 1% related to an increase in tax benefits resulting from our increased ability to use our capital loss carryforwards and 1% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 5% and other permanent differences of 1%. As of September 24, 2006, we had a valuation allowance of $16 million on previously incurred capital losses due to uncertainty as to our ability to generate sufficient capital gains to utilize all capital losses. We will continue to assess the realizability of capital losses. The amount of the valuation allowance on capital losses may be adjusted in the future as our ability to utilize capital losses changes. A change in the valuation allowance may impact the provision for income taxes in the period the change occurs. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2005 were $5.67 billion, compared to $4.88 billion for fiscal 2004. Revenues from three customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments comprised an aggregate of 39% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005, compared to 40% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2004. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2005 were $3.74 billion, compared to $3.51 billion for fiscal 2004. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased $165 million, resulting primarily from an increase of $396 million related to higher unit shipments of MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, partially offset by a decrease of $241 million related to the effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Revenues from the sale of satellite and terrestrial based two way data messaging systems and related messaging services increased $25 million and revenues from the sale of satellite portable phones that operate on the Globalstar low Earth orbit satellite communications system increased $19 million. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2005 were $1.93 billion, compared to $1.37 billion for fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005, the QTL segment recorded royalty revenues solely based on royalties reported by licensees during the year, as compared to the method used during the first three quarters of fiscal 2004 of recording royalty revenues from certain licensees based on estimates of royalty revenues earned by those licensees during the quarter. The increase in royalty revenue year to year resulted primarily from a $350 million increase in royalties reported to us by our external licensees and the effect of changing the timing of recognizing royalty revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Royalty revenues recorded in fiscal 2004 excluded $151 million of royalties that were reported by external licensees in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, but estimated and recorded as revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Royalties reported to us by external licensees in fiscal 2005 were $1.64 billion, as compared to $1.29 billion in fiscal 2004. The increase in royalties reported to us by external licensees was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees, resulting from higher worldwide demand for CDMA products at higher average selling prices due primarily to the growth in sales of high end WCDMA products and shifts in the geographic distribution of sales of CDMA products. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2005 was $1.65 billion, compared to $1.48 billion for fiscal 2004. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 44% for fiscal 2005, compared to 42% for fiscal 2004. The margin percentage decline in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 was primarily due to a 1.3% decrease in QCT margin percentage. Increases in product support costs and the reserves for excess and obsolete inventory contributed 1.1% and 0.5%, respectively, to the total decrease in QCT margin percentage. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2005, research and development expenses were $1.01 billion or 18% of revenues, compared to $720 million or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2004. The dollar and percentage increases in research and development expenses primarily resulted from a $275 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support lower cost phones, multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, WCDMA, HSDPA, GSM/GPRS/EDGE and OFDMA, and the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS and iMoD display products using MEMS technology. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2005, selling, general and administrative expenses were $631 million or 11% of revenues, compared to $547 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2004. The dollar increase was primarily due to a $38 million increase in professional fees, primarily patent administration and outside consultants, a $33 million increase in employee related expenses, and a $13 million decrease in other income. 56 Table of Contents Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $423 million for fiscal 2005, compared to $184 million for fiscal 2004. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 25, 2005 September 26, 2004 Change Interest and dividend income: QSI $ 4 $ 14 $ (10 ) Corporate and other segments 252 161 91 Interest expense (3 ) (2 ) (1 ) Net realized gains on investments: QSI 101 56 45 Corporate 78 32 46 Other than temporary losses on investments (14 ) (12 ) (2 ) Gains on derivative instruments 33 7 26 Equity in losses of investees (28 ) (72 ) 44 $ 423 $ 184 $ 239 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates earned on interest bearing securities. Net realized gains on corporate investments increased primarily as a result of an increase in the positive performance of marketable equity securities as a percentage of total corporate investments in fiscal 2005, as compared to fiscal 2004. The increase in net realized gains on strategic investments in QSI resulted primarily from a $48 million gain on our minority investment in a wireless publisher and a $41 million gain on the sale of our investment in a wireless telecommunications company. Gains on derivative instruments in fiscal 2005 and 2004 related primarily to changes in the fair values of put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program. Equity in losses of investees decreased primarily due to a decrease in losses incurred by Inquam, of which our share was $33 million for fiscal 2005 as compared to $59 million for fiscal 2004. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense from continuing operations was $666 million for fiscal 2005, compared to $588 million for fiscal 2004. The annual effective tax rate for continuing operations was approximately 24% for fiscal 2005, compared to 25% for fiscal 2004. The annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 was lower than the annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for fiscal 2004 primarily due to an increase in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2005 was 11% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 10% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 3% related to an increase in tax benefits resulting from our increased ability to use our capital loss carryforwards and 2% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 4%. As of September 25, 2005, we had a valuation allowance of approximately $62 million on previously incurred capital losses due to uncertainty as to our ability to generate sufficient capital gains to utilize all capital losses. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results of fiscal 2006 and 2005 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2006 were $4.33 billion, compared to $3.29 billion for fiscal 2005. Equipment and services revenues, primarily from MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, were $4.20 billion for fiscal 2006, compared to $3.20 billion for fiscal 2005. The increase in equipment and services revenue was primarily comprised of an increase of $1.34 billion related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a decrease of $349 million related to the effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Approximately 207 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2006, compared to approximately 151 million for fiscal 2005. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 were $1.13 billion, compared to $852 million for fiscal 2005. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 26% during both fiscal 2006 and 2005. The operating margin percentage remained consistent as the gross margin percentage decrease, resulting 57 Table of Contents primarily from an increase in product support costs, was offset by a decrease in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of QCT revenue. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2006 were $2.63 billion, compared to $1.84 billion for fiscal 2005. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 were $2.40 billion, compared to $1.66 billion for fiscal 2005. QTLs operating margin percentage was 91% in fiscal 2006 as compared to 90% in fiscal 2005. The increase in both revenues and earnings before taxes primarily resulted from a $774 million increase in royalties reported to us by our licensees which were $2.42 billion in fiscal 2006, compared to $1.64 billion in fiscal 2005. The increase in royalty revenue relates to the increase in sales of CDMA based products by licensees and the impact of the expiration of one of our royalty sharing obligations. Revenues from amortized license fees were $50 million in fiscal 2006, compared to $69 million in fiscal 2005. Other revenues were comprised of intersegment royalties. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2006 were $670 million, compared to $644 million for fiscal 2005. Revenues increased primarily due to a $41 million increase in QIS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in QWBS revenue of $12 million. The increase in QIS revenue was primarily attributable to a $28 million increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products and a $17 million increase in QChat revenue resulting from increased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint. The decrease in QWBS revenue was primarily attributable to a $26 million decrease in equipment revenue, which includes a $19 million decrease in amortization of deferred revenues related to historical equipment sales, partially offset by a $14 million increase in messaging services revenue. QWBS shipped approximately 42,100 satellite based systems and 39,600 terrestrial based systems during fiscal 2006, compared to approximately 46,800 satellite based systems and 62,500 terrestrial based systems in fiscal 2005. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 were $80 million, compared to $57 million for fiscal 2005. QWIs operating margin percentage was 12% in fiscal 2006, compared to 9% in fiscal 2005. The increase in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $39 million increase in QIS gross margin largely resulting from the increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products and QChat development efforts, partially offset by the effect of a $13 million increase in QWI research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. The increase in QWIs operating margin percentage was primarily due to the increase in QIS gross margin. QSI Segment. QSIs losses before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 were $133 million, compared to earnings before taxes from continuing operations of $10 million for fiscal 2005. QSIs losses before taxes from continuing operations included a $55 million increase in our MediaFLO USA subsidiarys operating expenses. During fiscal 2006, QSI recorded $30 million in realized gains on marketable securities and other investments, compared to $101 million in fiscal 2005. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results of fiscal 2005 and 2004 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2005 were $3.29 billion, compared to $3.11 billion for fiscal 2004. Equipment and services revenues, primarily from MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, were $3.20 billion for fiscal 2005, compared to $3.04 billion for fiscal 2004. The increase in equipment and services revenue was comprised of $396 million related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a decrease of $241 million related to the effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Approximately 151 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2005, compared to approximately 137 million for fiscal 2004. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2005 were $852 million, compared to $1.05 billion for fiscal 2004. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 26% in fiscal 2005, compared to 34% in fiscal 2004. The decline in operating margin percentage in fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004 was primarily the result of a 45% increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004, mainly related to increased investment in new integrated circuit products and technology research and development initiatives to support lower cost phones, multimedia applications, high speed wireless Internet access and multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, WCDMA, HSDPA and GSM/GPRS/EDGE. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2005 were $1.84 billion, compared to $1.33 billion for fiscal 2004. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2005 were $1.66 billion, compared to $1.20 billion for fiscal 2004. QTLs operating margin percentage was 90% during both fiscal 2005 and 2004. The increase in both revenues and earnings 58 Table of Contents before taxes primarily resulted from a $350 million increase in royalties reported to us by our external licensees and the effect of changing the timing of recognizing royalty revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Royalty revenues recorded in fiscal 2004 excluded $151 million of royalties that were reported by external licensees in the first quarter of fiscal 2004, but estimated and recorded as revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. Royalties reported to us by external licensees in fiscal 2005 were $1.64 billion, compared to $1.29 billion in fiscal 2004. The increase in royalties reported to us by external licensees was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA products by licensees, resulting from higher worldwide demand for CDMA products at higher average selling prices due primarily to the growth of higher priced WCDMA sales and shifts in the geographic distribution of sales of CDMA products. Revenues from amortized license fees were $69 million in fiscal 2005, as compared to $59 million in fiscal 2004. Other revenues were comprised of intersegment royalties. During the periods preceding the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we estimated and recorded the royalty revenues earned for sales by certain licensees (the Estimated Licensees) in the quarter in which such sales occurred, but only when reasonable estimates of such amounts could be made. Not all royalties earned were recorded based on estimates. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we determined that, due to escalating and changing business trends, we no longer had the ability to reliably estimate royalty revenues from the Estimated Licensees. These escalating and changing trends included the commercial launches and global expansion of WCDMA networks, changes in market share among licensees due to increased global competition, and increased variability in the integrated circuit and finished product inventories of licensees. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we began recognizing royalty revenues solely based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter. The change in the timing of recognizing royalty revenue was made prospectively and had the initial one time effect of reducing royalty revenues recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Accordingly, we did not estimate royalty revenues earned in fiscal 2005. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2005 were $644 million, compared to $571 million for fiscal 2004. Revenues increased primarily due to a $37 million increase in QIS revenue and a $27 million increase in QWBS revenue. The increase in QIS revenue was primarily attributable to a $41 million increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products. The increase in QWBS revenue was primarily attributable to a $16 million increase in equipment revenue, net of a $24 million decrease in amortization of deferred revenues related to historical equipment sales, and a $10 million increase in related messaging services revenue. QWBS shipped approximately 46,800 satellite based systems and 62,500 terrestrial based systems during fiscal 2005, compared to approximately 43,400 satellite based systems and 10,000 terrestrial based systems in fiscal 2004. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2005 were $57 million, compared to $19 million for fiscal 2004. QWIs operating margin percentage was 9% in fiscal 2005, compared to 3% in fiscal 2004. The increases in QWI earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily due to a $39 million increase in QIS gross margin largely resulting from the increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products. During fiscal 2005, QWBS completed the process of moving high volume, standard product manufacturing to Mexico to reduce manufacturing costs. The low volume, prototype and new product manufacturing activities remain in San Diego. QSI Segment. QSIs earnings before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2005 were $10 million, compared to losses before taxes from continuing operations of $31 million for fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005, QSI recorded $101 million in realized gains on marketable securities and other investments, compared to $56 million in fiscal 2004. Equity in losses of investees decreased by $43 million primarily due to a decrease in losses incurred by Inquam during fiscal 2005 as compared to fiscal 2004, of which our share was $33 million for fiscal 2005 as compared to $59 million for fiscal 2004. QSIs earnings before taxes from continuing operations also included a $42 million increase in MediaFLO USA operating expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $9.9 billion at September 24, 2006, an increase of $1.3 billion from September 25, 2005. Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 24, 2006 consisted of $3.8 billion held by foreign subsidiaries with the remaining balance of $6.1 billion held domestically. Due to income tax considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from investments held domestically. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.3 billion during fiscal 2006, compared to $2.7 billion during fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily attributable to higher net income (net of non cash share based 59 Table of Contents compensation expense) in fiscal 2006. Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans was $692 million during fiscal 2006, compared to $386 million during fiscal 2005. On November 7, 2005, we authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of our common stock under a stock repurchase program with no expiration date. During fiscal 2006, we repurchased and retired 34,000,000 shares of common stock for $1.5 billion. At September 24, 2006, approximately $0.9 billion remained authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program, net of put options outstanding. We will continue to actively evaluate repurchases under this program. We declared and paid dividends totaling $698 million, $524 million and $307 million, or $0.42, $0.32 and $0.19 per share, during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. On October 5, 2006, we announced a cash dividend of $0.12 per share on our common stock, payable on January 4, 2007 to stockholders of record as of December 7, 2006. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Accounts receivable increased by 29% during fiscal 2006. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 29 days at September 24, 2006, compared to 30 days at September 25, 2005. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the increase in revenue in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005 and the timing of cash receipts for royalty receivables. The change in days sales outstanding is consistent with the increases in revenue and accounts receivable. On January 18, 2006, we completed our acquisition of Flarion, a developer of OFDMA technology, for approximately $613 million in consideration, including approximately $229 million in cash. Upon achievement of certain agreed upon milestones during the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we incurred additional aggregate consideration of $197 million, including approximately $185 million in cash (of which $75 million will be payable in July 2007). We intend to continue our strategic investment activities to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and the growth of CDMA based wireless data and wireless Internet products. As part of these investment activities, we may provide financing or other support to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment by authorized suppliers. In the event additional needs for cash arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources including potential debt and equity issuance. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on current business plans, including acquisitions, investments in other companies and other assets to support the growth of our business, financing and other commitments, the payment of dividends and possible additional stock repurchases. Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 24, 2006, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Period No Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Beyond Expiration Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal 2011 Date Purchase obligations (1) $ 829 $ 663 $ 110 $ 38 $ 18 $ Operating leases 291 71 74 49 97 Other commitments (2) 42 26 16 Total commitments 1,162 734 184 87 141 16 Capital leases (3) 125 3 6 8 108 Other long term liabilities (4) 47 45 2 Total recorded liabilities 172 3 51 8 110 Total $ 1,334 $ 737 $ 235 $ 95 $ 251 $ 16 (1) Total purchase obligations include $593 million in commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories. 60 Table of Contents (2) Certain of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates. Amounts are presented based on the expiration of the commitment, but actual funding may occur earlier or not at all as funding is subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts. (3) Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 24, 2006. (4) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenue, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 24, 2006 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 Investments in Other Entities and Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies. Future Accounting Requirements In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on the derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN 48 will be effective for us beginning October 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of initially adopting FIN 48 will be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption and will be presented separately. Only tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the effective date may be recognized upon adoption of FIN 48. We are in the process of determining the effect, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. We invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents and marketable securities. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. If the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate, and our investments could lose value. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. The following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For our interest bearing securities, the table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 61 Table of Contents Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single Fair 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Maturity Total Value Fixed interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 482 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 482 $ 482 Interest rate 5.3 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 2,138 $ 436 $ 238 $ 39 $ 12 $ 10 $ 267 $ 3,140 $ 3,140 Interest rate 4.1 % 4.6 % 5.2 % 5.0 % 5.2 % 7.3 % 4.9 % Non investment grade $ 2 $ 13 $ 37 $ 30 $ 61 $ 352 $ $ 495 $ 495 Interest rate 7.2 % 5.8 % 6.8 % 7.7 % 7.5 % 8.0 % Floating interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 999 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 999 $ 999 Interest rate 5.3 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 157 $ 116 $ 192 $ 52 $ 3 $ 87 $ 348 $ 955 $ 955 Interest rate 5.0 % 5.3 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.5 % Non investment grade $ 10 $ 14 $ 12 $ 26 $ 65 $ 258 $ 512 $ 897 $ 897 Interest rate 6.4 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.5 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.2 % Equity Price Risk. We invest in a number of diversified marketable securities and mutual fund shares subject to equity price risk. The recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $1.34 billion at September 24, 2006 from $1.16 billion at September 25, 2005. The recorded value of equity mutual fund shares increased to $1.52 billion at September 24, 2006 from $293 million at September 25, 2005. Our diversified investments in companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in the concentrations of these investments may affect the price volatility of our investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund shares at September 24, 2006 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $285 million. Our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. Accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. Additionally, we do not anticipate any near term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in managements objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. The recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $93 million at September 24, 2006, compared to $121 million at September 25, 2005. In connection with our stock repurchase program, we sell put options that may require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. These written put options subject us to equity price risk. At September 24, 2006, we had two outstanding put options, enabling holders to purchase 2,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for approximately $89 million (net of the option premiums received). The put option liabilities, with a fair value of $19 million at September 24, 2006, were included in other current liabilities. If the fair value of our common stock at September 24, 2006 decreased by 10%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares by $21 million, net of the $6 million in premiums received. Additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report. Foreign Exchange Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. Such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 24, 2006, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. At September 24, 2006, the net recorded value of our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of CDMA and WCDMA products was a liability of $2 million. If our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates 62 Table of Contents were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $3 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
