Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Recent Developments Revenues for fiscal 2007 were $8.87 billion, with net income of $3.30 billion. The following recent developments occurred with respect to key elements of our business or our industry during fiscal 2007: Worldwide wireless subscribers grew by more than 21% to reach approximately 3.1 billion.(1) CDMA subscribers, including both 2G (cdmaOne) and 3G (CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO and WCDMA), grew to approximately 17% of total worldwide wireless subscribers to date. (1) 3G subscribers (all CDMA based) grew to approximately 530 million worldwide by September 30, 2007, including approximately 370 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO subscribers and approximately 160 million WCDMA/HSPA subscribers. (1) CDMA based handset shipments totaled approximately 338 million units, an increase of 34% over the 253 million units shipped in fiscal 2006. (2) (4) CDMA based handset shipments grew faster than total worldwide handsets and represent an estimated 32% of the total (1.1 billion) worldwide handset shipments, compared to 28% of the total (911 million) shipments in fiscal 2006. (3) The average selling price of CDMA based handsets was estimated to be approximately $214, same as the prior year. (2) (4) We shipped approximately 253 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA based wireless devices and data modules, an increase of 22%, compared to approximately 207 million MSM integrated circuits in fiscal 2006. We are engaged in multiple disputes with Nokia Corp., including arbitration over Nokias obligation to pay royalties for the use of certain of our patents. As a result, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are not recording royalty revenue attributable to Nokias sales after April 9, 2007 until an arbitrator (or court) awards damages or the disputes are otherwise resolved by agreement with Nokia, resulting in a negative impact on royalty revenues reported by our QTL segment. We expect activity in this area to remain high and anticipate some decisions and or rulings in 2008. (1) According to Wireless Intelligence, an independent source of wireless operator data. (2) Fiscal 2007 information was derived from reports provided by our licensees/manufacturers during the year and our own estimates of unreported activity. Fiscal 2006 information was derived from reports provided by our licensees/manufacturers during the year. (3) Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, in their Global Handset Market Share Updates. (4) We perform periodic audits of the royalties payable by our licensees. As a result of our audit process, we determined during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 that total CDMA based handset unit shipments and average selling prices (ASPs) should be adjusted for certain periods. The adjustments related only to handset shipments and ASPs and did not impact the amount or timing of our revenue. Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, from services and related hardware sales and from software development and licensing and related services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. 43 Table of Contents We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, data cards and infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the MSM, RF and PM devices. These integrated circuits for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and baseband signals and power management. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling phone manufacturers to develop handsets utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operators base station equipment. In addition to the key components in a wireless system, QCT provides system reference designs and development tools to assist in customizing wireless devices and user interfaces, to integrate our products with components developed by others, and to test interoperability with existing and planned networks. QCT revenues comprised 59%, 58% and 58% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. We rely on independent third party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two stage manufacturing business model, we purchase completed die directly from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract directly with third party manufacturers for back end assembly and test services. We refer to this two stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). QTL grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD, GPRS/EDGE and or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL receives revenue from license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g. certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 31%, 33% and 30% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The vast majority of such revenues have been generated primarily through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA products. QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES) (formerly Qualcomm Wireless Business Solutions, or QWBS), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS) and Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV), generates revenues primarily through mobile communication products and services, software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets, products and workforce. QES also sells products that operate on the Globalstar low Earth orbit satellite based telecommunications system and provides related services. Through September 2007, QES has shipped approximately 1,192,000 terrestrial based and satellite based communications systems. QIS provides BREW based (Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless) products that include user interface and content delivery and management products and services for the wireless industry. QIS also provides QChat, which enables virtually instantaneous push to talk functionality on CDMA based wireless devices. The QGOV division provides development, hardware and analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies. QWI revenues comprised 9%, 10% and 12% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. QSI manages the Companys strategic investment activities, including MediaFLO USA, Inc. (MediaFLO USA), the Companys wholly owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI also makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA based products and services. Our strategy is to invest in CDMA based 44 Table of Contents operators, licensed device manufacturers and start up companies that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess unique capabilities or technology. Our MediaFLO USA subsidiary offers services over our nationwide multicasting network based on our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology. This network is utilized as a shared resource for wireless operators and their customers in the United States. The commercial availability of the MediaFLO USA network and service will continue to be determined by our wireless operator partners. MediaFLO USAs network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses nationwide. Additionally, MediaFLO USA has and will continue to procure, aggregate and distribute content in service packages which we will make available on a wholesale basis to our wireless operator customers (whether they operate on CDMA or GSM/WCDMA networks) in the United States. Distribution, marketing, billing and customer relationships remain services provided by our wireless operator partners. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in the future, which may include distribution of our ownership interest in MediaFLO USA to our stockholders in a spin off transaction. Nonreportable segments include: the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which is developing an IMOD display technology based on micro electro mechanical system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics; the Qualcomm Flarion Technologies division, which is developing OFDM/OFDMA technologies; the MediaFLO Technologies division, which is developing our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology and markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States; and other product initiatives. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks (CDMA2000 and WCDMA) enables higher voice capacity and data rates, thereby supporting more minutes of use and data intensive applications like multimedia. As a result, we expect continued growth in demand for 3G products and services around the world. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: The deployment of CDMA2000 networks is expected to continue. More than 230 operators have launched CDMA2000 1X; (1) More than 75 operators have deployed the higher data speeds of 1xEV DO and 10 operators have deployed, and several more are preparing to deploy EV DO Revision A. (1) GSM operators are expected to continue transitioning to WCDMA networks. More than 180 GSM operators have migrated their networks to WCDMA; (2) More than 140 operators have launched commercial HSDPA networks and manufacturers are beginning to test and deploy the faster uplink speeds of HSUPA. (2) We expect WCDMA device prices will continue to segment into high and low end due to high volumes and vibrant competition in marketplaces around the world. As more operators deploy the higher data speeds of HSPA, we expect consumer demand for advanced 3G devices to accelerate. To meet growing demand for advanced 3G wireless devices and increased multimedia MSM functionality, we intend to continue to invest significant resources toward the development of multimedia products, software and services for the wireless industry. However, we expect that a portion of our research and development initiatives in fiscal 2008 will not reach commercialization until several years in the future. We expect demand for low end wireless devices to continue and have developed a family of Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC) products, which integrate the baseband, radio frequency and power management functions into one chip, lowering component counts and enabling faster time to market for our customers. While we continue to invest resources aggressively to expand our QSC product family to address the low end market more effectively with CDMA based products, we still face significant competition from GSM based products, particularly in emerging markets. 45 Table of Contents We will continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other technologies as part of our vision to enable a range of technologies, each optimized for specific services, including the following products and technologies: The continued evolution of CDMA based technologies, including the long term roadmaps of 1xEV DO and High Speed Packet Access (HSPA); OFDM and OFDMA based technologies; Our BREW applications platform, content delivery services and user interfaces; Our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology for delivery of multimedia content; and Our IMOD display technology. In addition to the foregoing business and market based matters, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business and results of operations over the next several months: We expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation, including our ongoing disputes with Broadcom and Nokia, and to appear in front of administrative and regulatory bodies, including the European Commission, the Korea Fair Trade Commission and the Japan Fair Trade Commission to defend our business model and, in some cases, to thwart efforts by companies to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage. We have been and continue to consider reasonable ways that we can be of assistance to our customers, including in some cases certain levels of financial support to minimize the impact of the litigation in which we are involved. We will continue to devote resources to working with and educating all participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. (1) According to public reports made available at www.cdg.org. (2) As reported by the Global mobile Suppliers Association, an international organization of WCDMA and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) suppliers in their October 2007 reports. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report. Revenue Concentrations Revenues from customers in South Korea, China, Japan and the United States comprised 31%, 21%, 17% and 13%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2007, as compared to 32%, 17%, 21% and 13%, respectively, for fiscal 2006, and 37%, 11%, 21% and 18%, respectively, in fiscal 2005. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for QTLs licensing and royalty revenues, the domicile of our licensees. The increase in revenues from customers in China from 11% and 17% of total revenues in fiscal 2005 and 2006, respectively, to 21% in fiscal 2007 is primarily attributable to increased shipments of integrated circuits to CDMA device manufacturers with locations in China. The increasing trend in revenues from customers in China is expected to continue. Combined revenues from customers in South Korea, Japan and the United States decreased as a percentage of total revenues, from 76% in fiscal 2005 to 66% in fiscal 2006 and 61% in fiscal 2007, primarily due to increases in the percentage of revenues from WCDMA manufacturers in Western Europe and increased activity by manufacturers with locations in China. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and 46 Table of Contents judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share based payments, income taxes, and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, from royalties and license fees for our intellectual property, from messaging and other services and related hardware sales and from software development and licensing and related services. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. We record reductions to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special pricing agreements and other volume related rebate programs. Such reductions to revenue are estimates, based on a number of factors, including our assumptions related to historical and projected customer sales volumes and the contractual provisions of our customer agreements. We license rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD and or the OFDMA standards and their derivatives. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. We earn royalties on such licensed CDMA products sold worldwide by our licensees at the time that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter, and, in some instances, although royalties are reported quarterly, payment is on a semi annual basis. We recognize royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter. From time to time, licensees will not report royalties timely due to legal disputes, and when this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenue could be affected. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of September 30, 2007, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $1.3 billion and $664 million, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. We also hold investments in other marketable securities, including non investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual funds, corporate bonds/notes and mortgage/asset backed securities. These investments, which are recorded at fair value with increases or decreases generally recorded through stockholders equity as other comprehensive income or loss, totaled $9.4 billion at September 30, 2007. We record impairment charges through the statement of 47 Table of Contents operations when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. In addition, the fair values of our strategic investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market volatility. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing these investments for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, the performance of the investees stock price in relation to the stock price of its competitors within the industry, the market in general and analyst recommendations, as applicable. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. In the event our judgments change as to other than temporary declines in value, we may record an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recorded $16 million, $20 million and $13 million, respectively, in other than temporary losses on our investments in marketable securities. We hold minority strategic investments in private companies whose values are difficult to determine. These investments totaled $114 million at September 30, 2007. We record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. When assessing investments in private companies for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the share price from the investees latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the investees revenue and cost trends, the investees liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate, and market acceptance of the investees products and services. From time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. We also consider new products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any significant news specific to the investee or the investees competitors and or industry and the outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates. In the event our judgments change as to other than temporary declines in value, we may record an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recorded $11 million, $4 million and $1 million, respectively, in other than temporary losses on our investments in private companies. Due to financial and competitive challenges facing our investees, we cannot assure you that our investments will generate financial returns or that we will not have to write down our investments. Share Based Payments. We grant options to purchase our common stock to our employees and directors under our equity compensation plans. Eligible employees can also purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or the last day of each six month offering period under our employee stock purchase plans. The benefits provided under these plans are share based payments subject to the provisions of revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (FAS 123R), Share Based Payment. We use the fair value method to apply the provisions of FAS 123R with a modified prospective application. Under the modified prospective application method, prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Share based compensation expense recognized under FAS 123R for fiscal 2007 and 2006 was $493 million and $495 million, respectively. At September 30, 2007, total unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to non vested stock options granted prior to that date was $1.3 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.4 years. Net stock options, after forfeitures and cancellations, granted during fiscal 2007 represented 2.0% of outstanding shares as of the beginning of the fiscal period. Total stock options granted during fiscal 2007 represented 2.3% of outstanding shares as of the end of the fiscal period. We estimate the value of stock option awards on the date of grant using a lattice binomial option pricing model (binomial model). The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We believe it is important for investors to be aware of the high degree of subjectivity involved when using option pricing models to estimate share based compensation under FAS 123R. Option pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions, are fully transferable and do not cause dilution. Because our share based payments have characteristics significantly different 48 Table of Contents from those of freely traded options, and because valuation model assumptions are subjective, in our opinion, existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our share based compensation awards. There is not currently a generally accepted market based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models. Although we estimate the fair value of employee share based awards in accordance with FAS 123R and the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), the option pricing model we use may not produce a value that is indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007, we used the implied volatility of market traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to the binomial model. We utilized the term structure of volatility up to approximately two years, and we used the implied volatility of the option with the longest time to maturity for the expected volatility estimates for periods beyond two years. The weighted average volatility assumption was 33.4% for fiscal 2007, which if increased to 37%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007 by $0.80 per share, or 5%. The volatility percentage assumed for fiscal 2007 and 2006 was based on the implied volatility of traded options, as compared to the blend of implied and historical volatility data used in prior years. FAS 123R includes implied volatility in its list of factors that should be considered in estimating expected volatility. We believe implied volatility is more useful than historical volatility in estimating expected volatility because it is generally reflective of both historical volatility and expectations of how future volatility will differ from historical volatility. The risk free interest rate is based on the yield curve of U.S. Treasury strip securities for a period consistent with the contractual life of the option in effect at the time of grant. The weighted average risk free interest rate assumption was 4.6% for fiscal 2007, which if increased to 6.5%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007 by $0.95 per share, or 7%. We do not target a specific dividend yield for our policy on dividend payments, but we are required to assume a dividend yield as an input to the binomial model. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts. The dividend yield assumption was 1.3% for fiscal 2007, which if decreased to 0.4%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007 by $0.96 per share, or 7%. Dividends and or increases or decreases in dividend payments are subject to board approval as well as to future cash inflows and outflows resulting from operating performance, stock repurchase programs, mergers and acquisitions, and other sources and uses of cash. While our historical dividend rate is assumed to continue in the future, it may be subject to substantial change, and investors should not depend upon this forecast as a reliable indication of future cash distributions that will be made to investors. The post vesting forfeiture rate is estimated using historical option cancellation information. The weighted average post vesting forfeiture rate assumption was 6.5% for fiscal 2007, which if decreased to 1.5%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007 by $0.73 per share, or 5%. The suboptimal exercise factor is estimated using historical option exercise information. The weighted average suboptimal exercise factor assumption was 1.8 for fiscal 2007, which if increased to 2.1, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2007 by $0.66 per share, or 5%. Income Taxes. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. As part of our assessment of potential adjustments to our tax returns, we increase our current tax liability to the extent an adjustment would result in a cash tax payment or decrease our deferred tax assets to the extent an adjustment would not result in a cash tax payment. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be materially different from those which are reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. For example, during fiscal 2007, we recorded an income tax benefit of $331 million resulting from the completion of audits of our fiscal 2003 and 2004 federal tax returns. 49 Table of Contents We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. As of September 30, 2007, gross deferred tax assets were $1.08 billion. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results. As of September 30, 2007, we had gross deferred tax assets of $192 million related to realized and unrealized capital losses and $14 million related to foreign net operating losses. We can only use capital losses to offset capital gains. Based upon our assessments of projected future capital gains and losses and related tax planning strategies, we expect that our future capital gains will not be sufficient to utilize all the capital losses that we have incurred through fiscal 2007. Therefore, we have provided a $6 million valuation allowance for the portion of capital losses we do not expect to utilize. We can only use foreign net operating losses to offset taxable income of certain legal entities in certain foreign tax jurisdictions. Based upon our assessments of projected future taxable income and losses and historical losses incurred by these entities, we expect that the future taxable income of the entities in these tax jurisdictions will not be sufficient to utilize the foreign net operating losses we have incurred through fiscal 2007. Therefore, we have provided a full valuation allowance for these net operating losses. Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future capital gains, the timing of realization of capital losses and the amount of future taxable income in certain foreign jurisdictions. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of capital losses, capital gains and foreign taxable income are reflected in the period the change is made. We consider the operating earnings of certain non United States subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the cumulative amount of which is approximately $4.7 billion as of September 30, 2007. Should we repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the decision to repatriate earnings of foreign subsidiaries is made. With the adoption of FAS 123R in fiscal 2006, we recognize windfall tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options directly to stockholders equity only when realized. Accordingly, deferred tax assets are not recognized for net operating loss carryforwards resulting from windfall tax benefits occurring from September 26, 2005 onward. A windfall tax benefit occurs when the actual tax benefit realized by us upon an employees disposition of a share based award exceeds the deferred tax asset, if any, associated with the award that we had recorded. When assessing whether a tax benefit relating to share based compensation has been realized, we follow the tax law ordering method, under which current year share based compensation deductions are assumed to be utilized before net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Other than amounts relating to the Broadcom Corporation v. QUALCOMM Incorporated and QUALCOMM Incorporated v. Broadcom Corporation matters, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with any other legal proceedings based on our belief that additional liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. 50 Table of Contents Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2007 were $8.87 billion, compared to $7.53 billion for fiscal 2006. Revenues from three customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 41% and 39% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2007 were $5.77 billion, compared to $4.78 billion for fiscal 2006. Revenues from sales of integrated circuit products increased $922 million, resulting primarily from an increase of $761 million related to higher unit shipments, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, and an increase of $144 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2007 were $3.11 billion, compared to $2.75 billion for fiscal 2006. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees increased primarily as a result of a $306 million increase in royalties reported to QTL by our external licensees resulting from an increase in sales of CDMA based products by licensees and a $30 million increase in QIS revenues primarily related to our expanded BREW customer base and products and a licensing agreement with Sprint. Worldwide demand for CDMA based products has increased primarily as a result of the growth in sales of high end WCDMA products and shifts in the geographic distribution of sales of CDMA2000 products. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2007 was $2.68 billion, compared to $2.18 billion for fiscal 2006. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 47% for fiscal 2007, compared to 46% for fiscal 2006. Cost of equipment and services revenues in fiscal 2007 included $39 million in share based compensation, compared to $41 million in fiscal 2006. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2007, research and development expenses were $1.83 billion or 21% of revenues, compared to $1.54 billion or 20% of revenues for fiscal 2006. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $283 million increase in costs related to integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, WCDMA (including GSM/GPRS/EDGE), HSDPA, HSUPA and OFDMA. The increase in research and development expenses incurred also related to the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS and IMOD display products using MEMS technology. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2007 included share based compensation and in process research and development of $221 million and $10 million, respectively, compared to $216 million and $22 million, respectively, in fiscal 2006. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2007, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.48 billion or 17% of revenues, compared to $1.12 billion or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2006. The dollar and percentage increases were primarily attributable to a $152 million increase in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, a $98 million increase in employee related expenses, a $40 million increase in other professional fees, a $39 million increase in bad debt expense, a $32 million increase in cooperative and other marketing expenses and a $28 million increase in depreciation and amortization, partially offset by a $44 million gain on the sale of a building. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2007 included share based compensation of $233 million, compared to $238 million in fiscal 2006. 51 Table of Contents Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $743 million for fiscal 2007, compared to $466 million for fiscal 2006. The net increase was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 30, September 24, 2007 2006 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 551 $ 410 $ 141 QSI 7 6 1 Interest expense (11 ) (4 ) (7 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 201 106 95 QSI 21 30 (9 ) Other than temporary losses on investments (27 ) (24 ) (3 ) Gains (losses) on derivative instruments 2 (29 ) 31 Equity in losses of investees (1 ) (29 ) 28 $ 743 $ 466 $ 277 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates on interest bearing securities. Net realized gains on corporate investments increased primarily due to strength in the equity markets and reallocation of certain portfolio assets. Losses on derivative instruments in fiscal 2006 related primarily to changes in the fair values of put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program. Equity in losses of investees in fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from the effect of investment losses recognized by Inquam and a venture fund investee in fiscal 2006, of which our share was $20 million and $11 million, respectively. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $323 million for fiscal 2007, compared to $686 million for fiscal 2006. The annual effective tax rate was 9% for fiscal 2007, compared to 22% for fiscal 2006. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 is lower than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 primarily due to the impact of prior year audits completed during fiscal 2007 and additional foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal statutory tax rate. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 is 26% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 20% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 9% related to the impact of the tax audits completed during the year and 2% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 5%. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2006 were $7.53 billion, compared to $5.67 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues from three customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments comprised an aggregate of 39% of total consolidated revenues in both fiscal 2006 and 2005. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2006 were $4.78 billion, compared to $3.74 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues from sales of integrated circuits increased $1.00 billion, resulting primarily from an increase of $1.34 billion related primarily to higher unit shipments of MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, partially offset by a decrease of $349 million related to the net effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2006 were $2.75 billion, compared to $1.93 billion for fiscal 2005. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees increased primarily as a result of a $774 million increase in royalty revenue, consisting primarily of royalties reported to QTL by our external licensees, resulting from an increase in sales of CDMA based products by licensees and the impact of the expiration of one of our royalty sharing obligations. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2006 was $2.18 billion, compared to $1.65 billion for fiscal 2005. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 46% for fiscal 2006, compared to 44% for fiscal 2005. The decline in margin percentage in fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was primarily due to the effect of $41 million in share based compensation during fiscal 2006 as a result of the adoption of FAS123R during fiscal 2006 and a decrease in QCT margin percentage resulting primarily from an increase in product support costs. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2006, research and development expenses were $1.54 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $1.01 billion or 18% of revenues for fiscal 2005. Research and development 52 Table of Contents expenses for fiscal 2006 included share based compensation of $216 million as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R during fiscal 2006 and in process research and development of $22 million resulting from acquisitions, both of which caused the increase in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues. The dollar increase in research and development expenses also included a $272 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products and other initiatives to support lower cost devices, multimedia applications, high speed wireless internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, WCDMA (including GSM/GPRS/EDGE), HSDPA, HSUPA and OFDMA, and the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS and iMoD display products using MEMS technology. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2006, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.12 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $631 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2006 included share based compensation of $238 million as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R during fiscal 2006. The percentage increase was primarily attributable to the share based compensation. The dollar increase was also attributable to a $107 million increase in professional fees, primarily related to legal activities, a $90 million increase in employee related expenses, a $14 million increase in selling and marketing expenses and a $14 million decrease in other income. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $466 million for fiscal 2006, compared to $423 million for fiscal 2005. The change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 24, 2006 September 25, 2005 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 410 $ 252 $ 158 QSI 6 4 2 Interest expense (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 106 78 28 QSI 30 101 (71 ) Other than temporary losses on investments (24 ) (14 ) (10 ) (Losses) gains on derivative instruments (29 ) 33 (62 ) Equity in losses of investees (29 ) (28 ) (1 ) $ 466 $ 423 $ 43 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates earned on interest bearing securities. Net realized gains on QSI investments in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from a $48 million gain on our minority investment in a wireless publisher and a $41 million gain on the sale of our investment in a wireless telecommunications company. Losses and gains on derivative instruments in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, related primarily to changes in the fair values of put options sold in connection with our stock repurchase program. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $686 million for fiscal 2006, compared to $666 million for fiscal 2005. The annual effective tax rate was approximately 22% for fiscal 2006, compared to 24% for fiscal 2005. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 was lower than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2005 primarily due to an increase in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal tax rate. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 was 13% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 15% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 2% related to the impact of prior year tax audits completed during the year, 1% related to an increase in tax benefits resulting from our increased ability to use our capital loss carryforwards and 1% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 5% and other permanent differences of 1%. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. 53 Table of Contents QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2007 were $5.28 billion, compared to $4.33 billion for fiscal 2006. Equipment and services revenues, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $5.12 billion for fiscal 2007, compared to $4.20 billion for fiscal 2006. The increase in equipment and services revenue resulted primarily from an increase of $761 million related to higher unit shipments and an increase of $144 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. Approximately 253 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2007, compared to approximately 207 million for fiscal 2006. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2007 were $1.55 billion, compared to $1.30 billion for fiscal 2006. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 29% in fiscal 2007, compared to 30% in fiscal 2006. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to increases in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by an increase in the gross margin percentage. QCT inventories increased by 116% in fiscal 2007 from $179 million to $387 million due to increased purchases of completed die directly from foundry suppliers for use in QCTs CDMA based integrated circuit products in connection with the shift in our manufacturing business model from turnkey to IFM. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2007 were $2.77 billion, compared to $2.47 billion for fiscal 2006. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2007 were $2.34 billion, compared to $2.23 billion for fiscal 2006. QTLs operating margin percentage was 84% in fiscal 2007, compared to 90% in fiscal 2006. The increase in revenues primarily resulted from a $306 million increase in royalties reported to us by our external licensees, which were $2.72 billion in fiscal 2007, compared to $2.42 billion in fiscal 2006. Revenues from amortized license fees were $49 million in fiscal 2007, compared to $50 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues, partially offset by increases in legal and bad debt expenses, which resulted in a corresponding decline in operating margin percentage. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2007 were $828 million, compared to $731 million for fiscal 2006. Revenues increased primarily due to increases of $78 million and $11 million in QIS and QES revenues, respectively. The increase in QIS revenues is primarily attributable to a $61 million increase in QChat revenues resulting from increased development efforts under a licensing agreement with Sprint and an $18 million increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products. The increase in QES revenues is primarily attributable to a $26 million increase in equipment and messaging revenues, partially offset by a $15 million decrease in amortization of deferred revenues related to historical equipment sales. QES shipped approximately 190,300 terrestrial based and satellite based systems during fiscal 2007, compared to approximately 140,300 terrestrial based and satellite based systems in fiscal 2006. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2007 were $88 million, compared to $78 million for fiscal 2006. QWIs operating margin percentage was 11% in fiscal 2007, compared to 10% in fiscal 2006. The increase in QWIs earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $54 million increase in QIS gross margin, largely resulting from our expanded BREW customer base and products and QChat development efforts, partially offset by a $29 million increase in QWI selling, general and administrative expenses and an $18 million decrease in QES gross margin. The increase in QWIs operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to the increase in QIS gross margin, partially offset by the decrease in QES gross margin. QSI Segment. QSIs loss before taxes for fiscal 2007 was $240 million, compared to $133 million for fiscal 2006. QSIs loss before taxes included a $118 million increase in our MediaFLO USA subsidiarys loss before taxes comprised primarily of $70 million in cost of services revenues related to the commencement of our MediaFLO services in March 2007 and a $42 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, including $20 million related to cooperative marketing expenses. During fiscal 2006, QSI recorded $30 million in equity in losses of investees resulting primarily from the effect of investment losses recognized by Inquam and a venture fund investee in fiscal 2006, of which our share was $20 million and $11 million, respectively. Equity in losses of investees was nominal during fiscal 2007. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results of fiscal 2006 and 2005 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 Segment Information. 54 Table of Contents QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2006 were $4.33 billion, compared to $3.29 billion for fiscal 2005. Equipment and services revenues, primarily from MSM and accompanying RF integrated circuits, were $4.20 billion for fiscal 2006, compared to $3.20 billion for fiscal 2005. The increase in equipment and services revenue was primarily comprised of an increase of $1.34 billion related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a decrease of $349 million related to the effects of reductions in average sales prices and changes in product mix. Approximately 207 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2006, compared to approximately 151 million for fiscal 2005. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 were $1.30 billion, compared to $980 million for fiscal 2005. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 30% during both fiscal 2006 and 2005. The operating margin percentage remained consistent as the gross margin percentage decrease, resulting primarily from an increase in product support costs, was offset by a decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of QCT revenue. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2006 were $2.47 billion, compared to $1.71 billion for fiscal 2005. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 were $2.23 billion, compared to $1.54 billion for fiscal 2005. QTLs operating margin percentage was 90% in fiscal 2006 as compared to 89% in fiscal 2005. The increase in both revenues and earnings before taxes primarily resulted from a $774 million increase in royalties reported to us by our licensees, which were $2.42 billion in fiscal 2006, compared to $1.64 billion in fiscal 2005. The increase in royalty revenue relates to the increase in sales of CDMA based products by licensees and the impact of the expiration of one of our royalty sharing obligations. Revenues from amortized license fees were $50 million in fiscal 2006, compared to $69 million in fiscal 2005. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2006 were $731 million, compared to $682 million for fiscal 2005. Revenues increased primarily due to increases of $41 million and $11 million in QIS and QES revenues, respectively. The increase in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a $28 million increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products and a $17 million increase in QChat revenues resulting from increased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint. The increase in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a $16 million increase in equipment revenue and a $14 million increase in messaging services revenue, partially offset by a $19 million decrease in amortization of deferred revenues related to historical equipment sales. QES shipped approximately 140,300 satellite based and terrestrial based systems during fiscal 2006, compared to approximately 156,700 satellite based and terrestrial based systems in fiscal 2005. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2006 were $78 million, compared to $62 million for fiscal 2005. QWIs operating margin percentage was 10% in fiscal 2006, compared to 9% in fiscal 2005. The increase in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $39 million increase in QIS gross margin largely resulting from the increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products and QChat development efforts, partially offset by the effect of a $23 million increase in QWI research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. The increase in QWIs operating margin percentage was primarily due to the increase in QIS gross margin. QSI Segment. QSIs loss before taxes for fiscal 2006 was $133 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $10 million for fiscal 2005. QSIs loss before taxes included a $55 million increase in our MediaFLO USA subsidiarys operating expenses. During fiscal 2006, QSI recorded $30 million in realized gains on marketable securities and other investments, compared to $101 million in fiscal 2005. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $11.8 billion at September 30, 2007, an increase of $1.9 billion from September 24, 2006. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 30, 2007 consisted of $5.5 billion held by foreign subsidiaries with the remaining balance of $6.3 billion held domestically. Due to tax considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically. Cash provided by operating activities was $3.8 billion during fiscal 2007, compared to $3.3 billion during fiscal 2006. Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans was $556 million during fiscal 2007, compared to $692 million during fiscal 2006. 55 Table of Contents On May 22, 2007, we announced we had been authorized to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of our common stock. The $3.0 billion stock repurchase program replaced a $2.5 billion stock repurchase program, of which approximately $0.9 billion remained authorized for repurchases. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. During fiscal 2007, we repurchased and retired 37,263,000 shares of our common stock for $1.5 billion. In connection with the stock repurchase program, we have put options outstanding, with expiration dates ranging from December 2007 through March 2008, that may require us to repurchase an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for $189 million (net of the option premiums received). Any shares repurchased upon exercise of put options will be retired. At September 30, 2007, $1.5 billion remains authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program, net of put options outstanding. In the period from October 1, 2007 through November 7, 2007 we repurchased and retired 12,720,000 shares of our own common stock for approximately $525 million. We will continue our active evaluation of repurchases under this program. We declared and paid dividends totaling $862 million, $698 million and $524 million, or $0.52, $0.42 and $0.32 per common share, during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On October 11, 2007, we announced a cash dividend of $0.14 per share on our common stock, payable on January 4, 2008 to stockholders of record as of December 7, 2007. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Accounts receivable increased by 2% during fiscal 2007. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 27 days at September 30, 2007 compared to 29 days at September 24, 2006. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the increase in revenue in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006 and the contractual timing of cash receipts for royalty receivables, some of which are paid semi annually. The change in days sales outstanding was a result of the increase in revenue, partially offset by the effect of the increase in accounts receivable. We intend to continue our strategic investment activities to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA based products and the growth of CDMA based wireless data and wireless internet products. As part of these investment activities, we may provide financing to facilitate the marketing and sale of CDMA equipment by authorized suppliers. In the event additional needs or uses for cash arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources including potential debt and equity issuance. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on current business plans, including acquisitions, investments in other companies and other assets to support the growth of our business, financing and other commitments, the payment of dividends and possible additional stock repurchases. Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 30, 2007, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Fiscal Period No Expiration Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Beyond 2012 Date Purchase obligations (1) $ 1,052 $ 760 $ 193 $ 91 $ 8 $ Operating leases 390 75 113 63 139 Other commitments (2) 50 40 3 7 Total commitments 1,492 835 306 194 150 7 Capital leases (3) 200 6 12 12 170 Other long term liabilities (4) 15 10 1 4 Total recorded liabilities 215 6 22 13 174 Total $ 1,707 $ 841 $ 328 $ 207 $ 324 $ 7 (1) Total purchase obligations include $615 million in commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories. (2) Certain of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates. Amounts are presented based on the expiration of the commitment, but actual funding may occur earlier or not at all as funding is subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts. (3) Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2007. (4) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenue, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. 56 Table of Contents Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 30, 2007 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 Investments in Other Entities and Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies. Future Accounting Requirements In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Additionally, FIN 48 provides guidance on the derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. The accounting provisions of FIN 48 are effective for us beginning October 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of initially adopting FIN 48 will be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption and will be presented separately. Only tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the effective date may be recognized upon adoption of FIN 48. We are in the process of finalizing the impact the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our consolidated financial statements but expect the adjustment to opening retained earnings to be immaterial. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. We invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest bearing securities. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest bearing securities could lose value. If the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of issuers of interest bearing securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate, and our interest bearing securities could lose value. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. The following table provides information about our interest bearing securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 57 Table of Contents Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Maturity Total Fixed interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 543 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 543 Interest rate 5.4 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 1,851 $ 289 $ 163 $ 57 $ 20 $ 10 $ 405 $ 2,795 Interest rate 5.1 % 5.2 % 4.8 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 7.4 % 5.4 % Non investment grade $ 12 $ 16 $ 13 $ 44 $ 41 $ 368 $ $ 494 Interest rate 5.3 % 7.0 % 8.9 % 8.3 % 8.0 % 8.5 % Floating interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,719 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,719 Interest rate 5.4 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 213 $ 214 $ 202 $ 56 $ 78 $ 94 $ 531 $ 1,388 Interest rate 5.5 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.9 % 5.8 % 5.8 % Non investment grade $ 12 $ 11 $ 28 $ 65 $ 118 $ 391 $ 712 $ 1,337 Interest rate 6.7 % 7.0 % 7.3 % 7.4 % 7.1 % 7.4 % 7.1 % Cash and cash equivalents and available for sale securities are recorded at fair value. Mortgage Risk. A small portion of our diversified investment program includes investment grade mortgage and asset backed securities. In fiscal 2007, following a multi year housing industry expansion, mortgage industry excesses became apparent and caused concern among investors in pools of residential mortgages or other assets securitized by them. We have no direct investments in the lowest credit quality, or subprime, mortgages nor investments collateralized by assets that include subprime mortgages. We have indirect exposure to subprime mortgages to the extent of our investments in large, diversified financial companies, commercial banks, insurance companies and public/private investment funds that participate or invest in subprime mortgage loans, mortgage insurance, or loan servicing, which could impact the fair values of our securities. Equity Price Risk. We have a diversified marketable securities portfolio, including mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares, that is subject to equity price risk. The recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $1.52 billion at September 30, 2007 from $1.34 billion at September 24, 2006. The recorded values of equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares increased to $1.87 billion at September 30, 2007 from $1.52 billion at September 24, 2006. We make equity investments in companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares at September 30, 2007 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $339 million. Our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. Accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. Additionally, we do not anticipate any near term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in managements objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. The recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $114 million at September 30, 2007, compared to $93 million at September 24, 2006. In connection with our stock repurchase program, we sell put options that may require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. These written put options subject us to equity price risk. At September 30, 2007, we had two outstanding put options, enabling holders to sell 5,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for approximately $189 million (net of the option premiums received). The put option liabilities, with a fair value of $10 million at September 30, 2007, were included in other current liabilities. If the fair value of our common stock at September 30, 2007 decreased by 15%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares by $9 million, net of the $14 million in premiums received. 58 Table of Contents Additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report. Foreign Exchange Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. Such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 30, 2007, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. At September 30, 2007, we had a net liability of $1 million related to our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of CDMA and WCDMA products. If our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 30% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 30% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $6 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
