Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Recent Developments Revenues for fiscal 2008 were $11.1 billion, with net income of $3.2 billion. The following recent developments occurred with respect to key elements of our business or our industry during fiscal 2008: During fiscal 2008: Worldwide wireless subscribers grew by approximately 21% to reach approximately 3.8 billion.(1) CDMA subscribers, including both 2G (cdmaOne) and 3G (CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, WCDMA and HSPA), are approximately 19% of total worldwide wireless subscribers to date. (1) 3G subscribers (all CDMA based) grew to approximately 705 million worldwide by September 28, 2008, up approximately 33% year over year, including approximately 410 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO subscribers and approximately 295 million WCDMA/HSPA subscribers. (1) CDMA based device shipments totaled approximately 433 million units, an increase of 28% over the 338 million units shipped in fiscal 2007. (2) In the handset market, CDMA based unit shipments grew an estimated 27% year over year, compared to an estimated 14% year over year growth across all technologies. (3) The average selling price of CDMA based devices was estimated to be approximately $219, up 2% from the prior year. (2) We shipped approximately 336 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA based wireless devices, an increase of 33%, compared to approximately 253 million MSM integrated circuits in fiscal 2007. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008: We entered into new license and settlement agreements with Nokia Corporation/Nokia Inc. (Nokia) that cover GSM/GPRS/EDGE, CDMA2000, WCDMA (including HSPA), TD SCDMA, OFDMA (including LTE, UMB and WiMax) and other products and resolve all pending litigation between the parties. Also, as a result, Nokia withdrew its complaint with the European Commission as to our licensing and other business practices. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we recognized $560 million in revenues as a result of the execution of the agreements. Consideration provided to us under the new license agreement with Nokia included, among other things, a non refundable up front payment of $2.5 billion, ongoing royalties and the assignment of patents that we recorded in intangible assets in the amount of $1.8 billion. (1) According to Wireless Intelligence, an independent source of wireless operator data. (2) Derived from reports provided by our licensees/manufacturers during the year and our own estimates of unreported activity. (3) Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, in their Global Handset Market Share Updates. Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. 43 Table of Contents QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, data cards and infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the Mobile Station Modem (MSM), Radio Frequency (RF) and Power Management (PM) devices. These integrated circuits for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and baseband signals and power management. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling phone manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operators base station equipment. QCT revenues comprised 60%, 59% and 58% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two stage manufacturing business model, we purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third party manufacturers for back end assembly and test services. We refer to this two stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). QTL grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD, GSM/GPRS/EDGE and or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g. certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.), and or based on a fixed per unit amount. QTL revenues comprised 33%, 31% and 33% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The vast majority of such revenues have been generated through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA products. QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS), Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through mobile communication products and services, software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets, products and workforce. QES also sells products that operate on the Globalstar low Earth orbit satellite based telecommunications system and provides related services. Through September 2008, QES has shipped approximately 1,302,000 terrestrial based and satellite based communications systems. QIS provides BREW based (Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless) products that include user interface and content delivery and management products and services for the wireless industry. QIS also provides QChat, which enables virtually instantaneous push to talk functionality on CDMA based wireless devices. The QGOV division provides development, hardware and analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies. Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable financial institutions and wireless operators to offer mobile commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 7%, 9% and 10% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. QSI manages the Companys strategic investment activities, including MediaFLO USA, Inc. (MediaFLO USA), the Companys wholly owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI also makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA based products and services. Our strategy is to invest in CDMA based operators, licensed device manufacturers and early stage companies that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess unique capabilities or technology. Our MediaFLO USA subsidiary offers its service over our nationwide multicasting network based on our MediaFLO Media Distribution System (MDS) and FLO technology. This network is utilized as a shared resource for wireless operators and their customers in the United States. The commercial availability of the MediaFLO USA service to retail wireless consumers continues to be determined by our wireless operator partners. MediaFLO USAs network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses nationwide. Additionally, MediaFLO USA has and will continue to procure, aggregate and distribute content in service packages which we will make available on a wholesale basis to our wireless operator customers (regardless of whether they operate CDMA or GSM/WCDMA networks) in the United States. Distribution, marketing, billing and customer relationships remain functions that are provided primarily by our wireless operator partners. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in the future, which may include distribution of our ownership interest in MediaFLO USA to our stockholders in a spin off transaction. 44 Table of Contents Nonreportable segments include: the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which is developing an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on micro electro mechanical system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics; the Qualcomm Flarion Technologies division, which is developing OFDM/OFDMA technologies; the MediaFLO Technologies division, which is developing our MediaFLO technology and markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States; and other product initiatives. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks (CDMA2000 and WCDMA) enables higher voice capacity and data rates, thereby supporting more minutes of use and data intensive applications like multimedia. As a result, we expect continued growth in demand for 3G products and services around the world. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: We believe the recent global financial crisis and the resulting slowdown in global economies is causing current contraction in the channel inventory and will likely result in lower consumer demand and prices for CDMA based devices, among other things, adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. In addition, the financial crisis has, and may continue to have, an impact on the value of our marketable securities portfolio and net investment income. The deployment and upgrading of CDMA2000 networks is expected to continue. o More than 275 wireless operators have launched CDMA2000 1X; (1) and o More than 100 wireless operators have deployed the higher data speeds of 1xEV DO and more than 40 wireless operators have deployed commercial EV DO Revision A networks. (1) GSM operators are expected to continue transitioning to WCDMA networks. o More than 235 GSM operators have migrated their networks to WCDMA; (2) and o More than 220 wireless operators have upgraded and launched commercial HSDPA networks, and more than 50 wireless operators have upgraded and launched commercial HSUPA networks. (2) We expect that CDMA based device prices will continue to segment into high and low end due to high volumes and vibrant competition in marketplaces around the world. As more operators deploy the higher data speeds of HSPA and EV DO Revision A and as manufacturers introduce additional highly featured, converged devices, we expect consumer demand for advanced 3G devices to accelerate. To meet growing demand for advanced 3G wireless devices and increased multimedia MSM functionality, we intend to continue to invest significant resources toward the development of multimedia products, software and services for the wireless industry. However, we expect that a portion of our research and development initiatives in fiscal 2009 will not reach commercialization until several years in the future. We expect demand for low end wireless devices to continue to grow and have developed a family of Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC) products, which integrate the baseband, radio frequency and power management functions into one chip, lowering component counts and enabling faster time to market for our customers. While we continue to invest resources aggressively to expand our QSC product family to address the low end market more effectively with CDMA based products, we still face significant competition from GSM based products, particularly in emerging markets. We will continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other technologies as part of our vision to enable a range of technologies, each optimized for specific services, including the following products and technologies: o The continued evolution of CDMA based technologies, including the long term roadmaps of 1xEV DO and High Speed Packet Access (HSPA); o OFDM and OFDMA based technologies; o Our service applications platform, content delivery services and user interfaces; o Our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology for delivery of multimedia content; and o Our IMOD display technology. 45 Table of Contents In addition to the foregoing business and market based matters, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business and results of operations over the next several months: We will continue to devote resources to working with and educating all participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. For example, we expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation, including our ongoing disputes with Broadcom, and to appear in front of administrative and regulatory bodies, including the European Commission, the Korea Fair Trade Commission and the Japan Fair Trade Commission to defend our business model and to rebuff efforts by companies seeking to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage. We have been and will continue evaluating and providing reasonable assistance to our customers. This includes, in some cases, certain levels of financial support to minimize the impact of the litigation in which we are involved. (1) According to public reports made available at www.cdg.org. (2) As reported by the Global mobile Suppliers Association, an international organization of WCDMA and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) suppliers in their October 2008 reports. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report. Revenue Concentrations Revenues from customers in South Korea, China, Japan and the United States comprised 35%, 21%, 14% and 9%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2008, as compared to 31%, 21%, 17% and 13%, respectively, for fiscal 2007, and 32%, 17%, 21% and 13%, respectively, for fiscal 2006. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for QTLs licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. The increase in revenues from customers in South Korea from 32% and 31% of total revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2007, respectively, to 35% in fiscal 2008 is primarily attributable to increased shipments of integrated circuits to CDMA device manufacturers with locations in South Korea and royalty revenues from customers in South Korea. Combined revenues from customers in Japan and the United States decreased as a percentage of total revenues, from 34% in fiscal 2006 to 30% in fiscal 2007 and 23% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to the increased activity by manufacturers with locations in South Korea. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share based payments, income taxes and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. 46 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, royalties and license fees for our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. We record reductions to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special pricing agreements and other volume related rebate programs. Such reductions to revenue are estimates, based on a number of factors, including our assumptions related to historical and projected customer sales volumes and the contractual provisions of our customer agreements. We license rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of benefit to the licensee, typically five to fifteen years. We earn royalties on such licensed products sold worldwide by our licensees at the time that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter. We recognize royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. From time to time, licensees will not report royalties timely due to legal disputes, and when this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenues could be affected. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets in other types of transactions. As of September 28, 2008, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $1.5 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. For intangible assets purchased in a business combination or received in a non monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets received (or, for non monetary exchanges, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, except when neither the values of the assets received or the assets transferred in non monetary exchanges are determinable within reasonable limits. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and or cost approach are used to measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions which require significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires assumptions related to the appropriate business model to be used to estimate cash flows, total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our estimate of the fair value of certain assets may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models. New information may arise in the future that affects our fair value estimates and could result in adjustments to our estimates in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold minority investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. We also hold investments in other marketable securities, including non investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange traded funds, corporate bonds and notes, auction rate securities and mortgage and asset backed securities. These investments, which are recorded at fair value with increases or decreases generally recorded through stockholders equity as other comprehensive income or loss, totaled $9.4 billion at September 28, 2008. We record impairment charges through the statement of operations when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. In addition, the fair values of our strategic investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market volatility. Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring impairment charges. When assessing these investments for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been below its original cost, the extent of the general decline in prices or an increase in the default or recovery rates of securities in an asset class, negative events such as a bankruptcy filing or a need to raise capital or seek financial support from the government or others, the performance and pricing of the investees securities in relation to the securities of its competitors within the industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations, as applicable. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. If we determine that a security price decline is other than temporary, we may record an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded $502 million, $16 million and $20 million, respectively, in other than temporary losses on our investments in marketable securities. 47 Table of Contents Share Based Payments. We grant options to purchase our common stock to our employees and directors under our equity compensation plans. Eligible employees can also purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or the last day of each six month offering period under our employee stock purchase plans. The benefits provided under these plans are share based payments subject to the provisions of revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (FAS 123R), Share Based Payment. We use the fair value method to apply the provisions of FAS 123R. Share based compensation expense recognized under FAS 123R for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $543 million, $493 million and $495 million, respectively. At September 28, 2008, total unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to non vested stock options granted prior to that date was $1.6 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.5 years. Net stock options, after forfeitures and cancellations, granted during fiscal 2008 represented 2.7% of outstanding shares as of the beginning of the fiscal period. Total stock options granted during fiscal 2008 represented 3.2% of outstanding shares as of the end of the fiscal period. We estimate the value of stock option awards on the date of grant using a lattice binomial option pricing model (binomial model). The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We believe it is important for investors to be aware of the high degree of subjectivity involved when using option pricing models to estimate share based compensation under FAS 123R. Option pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions, are fully transferable and do not cause dilution. Because our share based payments have characteristics significantly different from those of freely traded options, and because valuation model assumptions are subjective, in our opinion, existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our share based compensation awards. There is not currently a generally accepted market based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models. Although we estimate the fair value of employee share based awards in accordance with FAS 123R and the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), the option pricing model we use may not produce a value that is indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2008, we used the implied volatility of market traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to the binomial model. We utilized the term structure of volatility up to approximately two years, and we used the implied volatility of the option with the longest time to maturity for the expected volatility estimates for periods beyond two years. The weighted average volatility assumption was 41.1% for fiscal 2008, which if increased to 45%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2008 by $0.89 per share, or 5%. FAS 123R includes implied volatility in its list of factors that should be considered in estimating expected volatility. We believe implied volatility is more useful than historical volatility in estimating expected volatility because it is generally reflective of both historical volatility and expectations of how future volatility will differ from historical volatility. The risk free interest rate is based on the yield curve of U.S. Treasury strip securities for a period consistent with the contractual life of the option in effect at the time of grant. The weighted average risk free interest rate assumption was 3.8% for fiscal 2008, which if increased to 6.5% would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2008 by $1.17 per share, or 7%. We do not target a specific dividend yield for our policy on dividend payments, but we are required to assume a dividend yield as an input to the binomial model. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts. The dividend yield assumption was 1.3% for fiscal 2008, which if decreased to 0.4% would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2008 by $0.92 per share, or 6%. Dividends and or increases or decreases in dividend payments are subject to approval by our Board of Directors as well as to future cash inflows and outflows resulting from operating performance, stock repurchase programs, mergers and acquisitions, and other sources and uses of cash. While our historical dividend rate is assumed to continue in the future, it may be subject to substantial change, and investors should not depend upon this forecast as a reliable indication of future cash distributions that will be made to investors. 48 Table of Contents The post vesting forfeiture rate is estimated using historical option cancellation information. The weighted average post vesting forfeiture rate assumption was 8.0% for fiscal 2008, which if decreased to 1.5%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2008 by $0.91 per share, or 6%. The suboptimal exercise factor is estimated using historical option exercise information. The weighted average suboptimal exercise factor assumption was 1.9 for fiscal 2008, which if increased to 2.3, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2008 by $1.01 per share or 6%. Income Taxes. On October 1, 2007, we adopted the accounting provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. As a result of the adoption, we increased our liabilities related to uncertain tax positions by $2 million and accounted for the cumulative effect of this change as a decrease to retained earnings. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 Income Taxes for additional information. As of September 28, 2008, our liability for net unrecognized tax benefits was $227 million. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two step process prescribed in the interpretation. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be materially different from those which are reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. For example, during fiscal 2007, we recorded an income tax benefit of $331 million resulting from the completion of audits of our fiscal 2003 and 2004 federal tax returns. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. As of September 28, 2008, gross deferred tax assets were $1.4 billion. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results. As of September 28, 2008, we had gross deferred tax assets of $430 million related to capital losses and $21 million related to foreign and state net operating losses. We can only use realized capital losses to offset realized capital gains. Based upon our assessments of when capital gains and losses will be realized, we estimate that our future capital gains will not be sufficient to utilize all of the temporary and other than temporary capital losses that were recorded through fiscal 2008. Therefore, we have provided a $134 million valuation allowance for the portion of capital losses we do not expect to utilize, of which $81 million was recorded as an increase in other comprehensive loss in fiscal 2008. We can only use net operating losses to offset taxable income of certain legal entities in certain tax jurisdictions. Based upon our assessments of projected future taxable income and losses and historical losses incurred by these entities, we expect that the future taxable income of the entities in these tax jurisdictions will not be sufficient to utilize the net operating losses we have incurred through fiscal 2008. Therefore, we have provided a $15 million valuation allowance for these net operating losses. Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future capital gains, the timing of realization of capital losses and the amount of future taxable income in certain jurisdictions. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of capital losses, capital gains and taxable income are reflected in the period the change is made. We consider the operating earnings of certain non United States subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. No provision has been made for United States federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the cumulative amount of which is approximately $6.8 billion as of September 28, 2008. Should we repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the decision to repatriate earnings of foreign subsidiaries is made. 49 Table of Contents We recognize windfall tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options directly to stockholders equity only when realized. Accordingly, deferred tax assets are not recognized for net operating loss carryforwards resulting from windfall tax benefits. A windfall tax benefit occurs when the actual tax benefit realized by us upon an employees disposition of a share based award exceeds the deferred tax asset, if any, associated with the award that we had recorded. When assessing whether a tax benefit relating to share based compensation has been realized, we follow the tax law ordering method, under which current year share based compensation deductions are assumed to be utilized before net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Other than amounts relating to the Broadcom Corporation v. QUALCOMM Incorporated matters, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with any other legal proceedings based on our belief that additional liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2008 were $11.14 billion, compared to $8.87 billion for fiscal 2007. Revenues from two customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 30% and 27% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2008 were $7.16 billion, compared to $5.77 billion for fiscal 2007. Revenues from sales of integrated circuit products increased $1.41 billion, resulting primarily from an increase of $1.23 billion related to higher unit shipments, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, and an increase of $219 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2008 were $3.98 billion, compared to $3.11 billion for fiscal 2007. The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees primarily related to an increase in sales of CDMA based products reported by QTLs licensees other than Nokia, driven by the continued adoption of WCDMA at higher average selling prices than CDMA and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition, revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2008 included $560 million (attributable to both fiscal 2008 and 2007) related to the new agreements with Nokia. Revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2007 included royalty payments from Nokia only for sales of Nokia products through April 9, 2007. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2008 was $3.41 billion compared to $2.68 billion for fiscal 2007. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 48% for fiscal 2008, compared to 47% for fiscal 2007. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $39 million in share based compensation in both fiscal 2008 and 2007. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2008, research and development expenses were $2.28 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $1.83 billion or 21% of revenues for fiscal 2007. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $358 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA, HSPA and OFDMA. Research and development expenses related to the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS, IMOD display products using MEMS technology, BREW products and mobile commerce applications increased by $63 million. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2008 included share based compensation and in process research and development of $250 million and $14 million, respectively, compared to $221 million and $10 million, respectively, in fiscal 2007. 50 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2008, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.71 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.48 billion or 17% of revenues for fiscal 2007. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $137 million increase in employee related expenses and a $72 million increase in certain professional fees, primarily related to patent activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2008 included share based compensation of $254 million, compared to $233 million in fiscal 2007. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $96 million for fiscal 2008, compared to $743 million for fiscal 2007. The net decrease was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 28,2008 September 30,2007 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 487 $ 551 $ (64 ) QSI 4 7 (3 ) Interest expense (22 ) (11 ) (11 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 104 201 (97 ) QSI 51 21 30 Other than temporary losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (502 ) (16 ) (486 ) QSI (33 ) (11 ) (22 ) Gains on derivative instruments 6 2 4 Equity in earnings (losses) of investees 1 (1 ) 2 $ 96 $ 743 $ (647 ) The decrease in interest and dividend income on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was primarily a result of lower interest rates earned on interest bearing securities. Other than temporary losses in fiscal 2008 included $327 million recognized in the fourth quarter on marketable securities held by corporate and other segments. Both other than temporary losses on marketable securities and the decrease in net realized gains on corporate investments were generally related to depressed securities values caused by a major disruption in U.S. and foreign credit and financial markets affecting consumers and the banking, finance and housing industries. This disruption is evidenced by a deterioration of confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for debt and equity securities. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $666 million for fiscal 2008, compared to $323 million for fiscal 2007. The annual effective tax rate was 17% for fiscal 2008, compared to 9% for fiscal 2007. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 is higher than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 primarily due to the impact of prior year audits completed during fiscal 2007. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 is 18% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 22% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, and 1% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 4% and 1% related to an increase in the valuation allowance. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2007 were $8.87 billion, compared to $7.53 billion for fiscal 2006. Revenues from three customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 41% and 39% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2007 were $5.77 billion, compared to $4.78 billion for fiscal 2006. Revenues from sales of integrated circuit products increased $922 million, resulting primarily from an increase of $761 million related to higher unit shipments, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, and an increase of $144 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. 51 Table of Contents Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2007 were $3.11 billion, compared to $2.75 billion for fiscal 2006. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees increased primarily as a result of a $306 million increase in QTL royalties related to an increase in our licensees sales of CDMA based products driven by the continued adoption of WCDMA at higher average selling prices than CDMA, and a $30 million increase in QIS revenues primarily related to our expanded BREW customer base and products and a licensing agreement with Sprint. Worldwide demand for CDMA based products has increased primarily as a result of the growth in sales of high end WCDMA products and shifts in the geographic distribution of sales of CDMA2000 products. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2007 was $2.68 billion, compared to $2.18 billion for fiscal 2006. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 47% for fiscal 2007, compared to 46% for fiscal 2006. Cost of equipment and services revenues in fiscal 2007 included $39 million in share based compensation, compared to $41 million in fiscal 2006. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2007, research and development expenses were $1.83 billion or 21% of revenues, compared to $1.54 billion or 20% of revenues for fiscal 2006. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $283 million increase in costs related to integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA and OFDMA. The increase in research and development expenses incurred also related to the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS and IMOD display products using MEMS technology. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2007 included share based compensation and in process research and development of $221 million and $10 million, respectively, compared to $216 million and $22 million, respectively, in fiscal 2006. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2007, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.48 billion or 17% of revenues, compared to $1.12 billion or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2006. The dollar and percentage increases were primarily attributable to a $152 million increase in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, a $98 million increase in employee related expenses, a $40 million increase in other professional fees, a $39 million increase in bad debt expense, a $32 million increase in cooperative and other marketing expenses and a $28 million increase in depreciation and amortization, partially offset by a $44 million gain on the sale of a building. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2007 included share based compensation of $233 million, compared to $238 million in fiscal 2006. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $743 million for fiscal 2007, compared to $466 million for fiscal 2006. The net increase was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 30,2007 September 24,2006 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 551 $ 410 $ 141 QSI 7 6 1 Interest expense (11 ) (4 ) (7 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 201 106 95 QSI 21 30 (9 ) Other than temporary losses on investments (27 ) (24 ) (3 ) Gains (losses) on derivative instruments 2 (29 ) 31 Equity in losses of investees (1 ) (29 ) 28 $ 743 $ 466 $ 277 The increase in interest and dividend income on cash and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was a result of higher average cash and marketable securities balances and higher interest rates on interest bearing securities. Net realized gains on corporate investments increased primarily due to strength in the equity markets and reallocation of certain portfolio assets. 52 Table of Contents Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $323 million for fiscal 2007, compared to $686 million for fiscal 2006. The annual effective tax rate was 9% for fiscal 2007, compared to 22% for fiscal 2006. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 is lower than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2006 primarily due to the impact of prior year audits completed during fiscal 2007 and additional foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal statutory tax rate. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 is 26% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 20% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 9% related to the impact of the tax audits completed during the year and 2% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 5%. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 9 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2008 were $6.72 billion, compared to $5.28 billion for fiscal 2007. Equipment and services revenues, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $6.53 billion for fiscal 2008, compared to $5.12 billion for fiscal 2007. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from an increase of $1.23 billion related to higher unit shipments and an increase of $219 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. Approximately 336 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2008, compared to approximately 253 million for fiscal 2007. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2008 were $1.83 billion, compared to $1.55 billion for fiscal 2007. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 27% in fiscal 2008, compared to 29% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage related to an increase in reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and product support costs. QCT inventories increased by 17% in fiscal 2008 from $387 million to $453 million primarily due to the shift in our manufacturing business model from turnkey to IFM and the related work in process which includes purchased die and related back end assembly and test manufacturing services needed to complete QCTs integrated circuit products. The increase is also attributable to an increase in finished goods associated with growth in sales volume. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2008 were $3.62 billion, compared to $2.77 billion for fiscal 2007. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2008 were $3.14 billion, compared to $2.34 billion for fiscal 2007. QTLs operating margin percentage was 87% in fiscal 2008, compared to 84% in fiscal 2007. The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees primarily related to an increase in sales of CDMA based products reported by QTLs licensees other than Nokia, driven by the continued adoption of WCDMA at higher average selling prices than CDMA and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition, QTL revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2008 included $560 million (attributable to both fiscal 2008 and 2007) related to the new agreement with Nokia. Revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2007 included royalty payments from Nokia only for sales of Nokia products through April 9, 2007. The increase in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues and the effect of bad debt expenses recognized in fiscal 2007, partially offset by increases in research and development expenses and patent costs, which resulted in a corresponding increase in operating margin percentage. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2008 were $785 million, compared to $828 million for fiscal 2007. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $78 million decrease in QES revenues, partially offset by a $27 million increase in QIS revenues. The decrease in QES revenues was primarily attributable to an $88 million decrease in revenues from product sales, partially offset by an $11 million increase in messaging revenues. QES shipped approximately 91,200 terrestrial based and satellite based systems during fiscal 2008, compared to approximately 190,300 terrestrial based and satellite based systems in fiscal 2007. The increase in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to increases in QChat revenues resulting from increased development efforts under a licensing agreement with Sprint and our expanded BREW customer base and products. QWIs loss before taxes for fiscal 2008 was $1 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $88 million for fiscal 2007. QWIs operating margin percentage was zero percent in fiscal 2008, compared to 11% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in QWIs earnings before taxes was primarily due to the decrease in revenues, a $30 million increase in QIS research and development expenses related to our BREW products and a $34 million increase in operating expenses as a result of the acquisition of Firethorn during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, all of which contributed to a corresponding decline in operating margin percentage. 53 Table of Contents QSI Segment. QSI revenues for fiscal 2008 were $12 million, compared to $1 million for fiscal 2007, related to the commencement of our MediaFLO service in March 2007. QSIs loss before taxes for fiscal 2008 was $304 million, compared to $240 million for fiscal 2007. QSIs loss before taxes also included a $71 million increase in our MediaFLO USA subsidiarys loss before taxes comprised primarily of an increase of $50 million in cost of equipment and services revenues and a $22 million increase in research and development expenses. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results of fiscal 2007 and 2006 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2007 were $5.28 billion, compared to $4.33 billion for fiscal 2006. Equipment and services revenues, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $5.12 billion for fiscal 2007, compared to $4.20 billion for fiscal 2006. The increase in equipment and services revenue resulted primarily from an increase of $761 million related to higher unit shipments and an increase of $144 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. Approximately 253 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2007, compared to approximately 207 million for fiscal 2006. QCTs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2007 were $1.55 billion, compared to $1.30 billion for fiscal 2006. QCTs operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 29% in fiscal 2007, compared to 30% in fiscal 2006. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to increases in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset by an increase in the gross margin percentage. QCT inventories increased by 116% in fiscal 2007 from $179 million to $387 million due to increased purchases of completed die directly from foundry suppliers for use in QCTs CDMA based integrated circuit products in connection with the shift in our manufacturing business model from turnkey to IFM. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2007 were $2.77 billion, compared to $2.47 billion for fiscal 2006. QTLs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2007 were $2.34 billion, compared to $2.23 billion for fiscal 2006. QTLs operating margin percentage was 84% in fiscal 2007, compared to 90% in fiscal 2006. The increase in revenues primarily resulted from a $306 million increase in royalties, driven by an increase in sales of CDMA based products by licensees. The increase in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues, partially offset by increases in legal and bad debt expenses, which resulted in a corresponding decline in operating margin percentage. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2007 were $828 million, compared to $731 million for fiscal 2006. Revenues increased primarily due to increases of $78 million and $11 million in QIS and QES revenues, respectively. The increase in QIS revenues is primarily attributable to a $61 million increase in QChat revenues resulting from increased development efforts under a licensing agreement with Sprint and an $18 million increase in fees related to our expanded BREW customer base and products. The increase in QES revenues is primarily attributable to a $26 million increase in equipment and messaging revenues, partially offset by a $15 million decrease in amortization of deferred revenues related to historical equipment sales. QES shipped approximately 190,300 terrestrial based and satellite based systems during fiscal 2007, compared to approximately 140,300 terrestrial based and satellite based systems in fiscal 2006. QWIs earnings before taxes for fiscal 2007 were $88 million, compared to $78 million for fiscal 2006. QWIs operating margin percentage was 11% in fiscal 2007, compared to 10% in fiscal 2006. The increase in QWIs earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $54 million increase in QIS gross margin, largely resulting from our expanded BREW customer base and products and QChat development efforts, partially offset by a $29 million increase in QWI selling, general and administrative expenses and an $18 million decrease in QES gross margin. The increase in QWIs operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to the increase in QIS gross margin, partially offset by the decrease in QES gross margin. QSI Segment. QSIs loss before taxes for fiscal 2007 was $240 million, compared to $133 million for fiscal 2006. QSIs loss before taxes included a $118 million increase in our MediaFLO USA subsidiarys loss before taxes comprised primarily of $70 million in cost of services revenues related to the commencement of our MediaFLO service in March 2007 and a $42 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, including $20 million related to cooperative marketing expenses. During fiscal 2006, QSI recorded $30 million in equity in losses of investees resulting primarily from the effect of investment losses recognized by Inquam and a venture fund investee in fiscal 2006, of which our share was $20 million and $11 million, respectively. Equity in losses of investees was negligible during fiscal 2007. 54 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $11.3 billion at September 28, 2008, a decrease of $546 million from September 30, 2007. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 28, 2008 consisted of $6.8 billion held by foreign subsidiaries with the remaining balance of $4.5 billion held domestically. Due to tax considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically. Total cash provided by operating activities was $3.6 billion during fiscal 2008, compared to $3.8 billion during fiscal 2007. Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans was $1.2 billion during fiscal 2008, compared to $556 million during fiscal 2007. On March 11, 2008, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock. The $2.0 billion stock repurchase program replaced a $3.0 billion stock repurchase program, of which approximately $2 million remained authorized for repurchases. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. During fiscal 2008, we repurchased and retired 42,616,000 shares of our common stock for $1.7 billion. At September 28, 2008, we had not repurchased any of our shares under the $2.0 billion stock repurchase program. We declared and paid dividends totaling $982 million, $862 million and $698 million, or $0.60, $0.52 and $0.42 per common share, during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. On October 22, 2008, we announced a cash dividend of $0.16 per share on our common stock, payable on January 7, 2009 to stockholders of record as of December 11, 2008. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Since September 2007, there has been a major disruption in U.S. and foreign credit and financial markets affecting consumers and the banking, finance and housing industries. This disruption was evidenced by a deterioration of confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for debt and equity securities. At September 28, 2008 and October 31, 2008, gross unrealized gains on marketable securities were $102 million and approximately $75 million, respectively, and gross unrealized losses were $449 million and approximately $1.3 billion, respectively. Our analyses of the severity and duration of price declines, market research, industry reports, economic forecasts and the specific circumstances of issuers indicate that it is reasonable to expect marketable securities with unrealized losses to recover within a reasonable period of time. Further, we have the ability and the intent to hold such securities until they recover. As a result, we do not believe the decline in the fair value of our marketable securities portfolio will materially affect our liquidity. At September 28, 2008, we classified our auction rate securities with recorded values of $186 million as noncurrent assets due to a disruption in credit markets that caused the auction mechanism to fail to set market clearing rates and provide liquidity for sellers. However, a failed auction does not represent a default by the issuer of the underlying security. Our auction rate securities are predominantly rated AAA/Aaa, are collateralized by student loans substantially guaranteed by the U.S. government and continue to pay interest in accordance with their contractual terms. The cash values of our auction rate securities, which are held by a foreign subsidiary, may not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the securities are called by the issuer or the underlying securities have been prepaid or have matured. Due to the combined strength of our significant cash, short term investments and operating cash flows, we do not anticipate the current illiquidity of auction rate securities to affect our operating plans. Accounts receivable increased greater than 100% during fiscal 2008 primarily due to a $2.5 billion trade receivable for which we received payment in October 2008 related to the new agreements with Nokia, an increase of $423 million in other trade accounts receivable and an increase of $400 million related to amounts receivable for redemptions of money market funds for which we received partial payment in October 2008. Days sales outstanding related to other trade accounts receivable were 30 days at September 28, 2008 compared to 27 days at September 30, 2007. The increase in other trade accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding were primarily due to increased revenues for integrated circuits and the timing of cash receipts for related receivables. 55 Table of Contents We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. Our total research and development expenditures were $2.28 billion in fiscal 2008 and $1.83 billion in fiscal 2007, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for the wireless industry. Our purchase obligations for fiscal 2009, some of which relate to research and development activities, totaled $868 million, at September 28, 2008. Cash used for strategic investments and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $298 million in fiscal 2008 and $249 million in fiscal 2007, and we expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions to open new markets for our technology, expand our technology, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business opportunities. Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 28, 2008, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Fiscal Period No Expiration Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Beyond 2013 Date Purchase obligations (1) $ 1,187 $ 868 $ 179 $ 85 $ 55 $ Operating leases 453 85 116 51 201 Equity funding commitments (2) 9 9 Total commitments 1,649 953 295 136 256 9 Capital leases (3) 322 10 20 20 272 Other long term liabilities (4)(5) 46 38 1 6 1 Total recorded liabilities 368 10 58 21 278 1 Total $ 2,017 $ 963 $ 353 $ 157 $ 534 $ 10 (1) Total purchase obligations include $678 million in commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories. (2) These commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all. (3) Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 28, 2008. (4) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues and the obligation under securities lending, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. (5) Our consolidated balance sheet at September 28, 2008 included a $227 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions, of which $138 million may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 28, 2008 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies. Future Accounting Requirements In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157 (FAS 157), Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements. FAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 157 2 (FSP 157 2) which delays the effective date of FAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 157 3 (FSP 157 3) which clarifies the application of FAS 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. The accounting provisions of FAS 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities will be effective for our fiscal 2009 beginning September 29, 2008. The adoption of FAS 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, and we are in the process of determining the effect such adoption will have on our financial statement disclosures. We are also in the process of assessing the effects, if any, the adoption of FAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities will have on our consolidated financial statements. 56 Table of Contents In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 159 (FAS 159), The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, which provides companies the irrevocable option to measure many financial assets and liabilities at fair value with the changes in fair value recognized in earnings (the fair value option) resulting in an opportunity to mitigate volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. The accounting provisions of FAS 159 will be effective for our fiscal 2009 beginning September 29, 2008. We are still in the process of determining whether we will apply the fair value option to any of our financial assets. If we do elect the fair value option, the cumulative effect of initially adoption FAS 159 will be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption and will be presented separately. In December 2007, the FASB revised Statement No. 141 (FAS 141R), Business Combinations, which establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. FAS 141R will be effective for our fiscal 2010 beginning September 28, 2009. We are in the process of determining the effects, if any, the adoption of FAS 141R will have on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161 (FAS 161), Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133, which requires additional disclosures about the objectives of using derivative instruments, the method by which the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB Statement No.133 and its related interpretations, and the effect of derivative instruments and related hedged items on financial position, financial performance and cash flows. FAS 161 also requires disclosure of the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses in a tabular format. FAS 161 will be effective for our second quarter of fiscal 2009 beginning December 29, 2008. We are in the process of determining the effects the adoption of FAS 161 will have on our financial statement disclosures. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk. Since September 2007, there has been a major disruption in U.S. and foreign credit and financial markets affecting consumers and the banking, finance and housing industries. This disruption is evidenced by a deterioration of confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for debt and equity securities. The result has been depressed security values and widening credit spreads in most types of investment and non investment grade bonds and debt obligations and mortgage and asset backed securities. We have no direct investments in the lowest credit quality, or subprime, mortgages, nor do we have investments collateralized by assets that include subprime mortgages. We have indirect exposure to subprime mortgages to the extent of our investments in large, diversified financial companies, commercial banks, insurance companies and public/private investment funds that participate or invest in subprime mortgage loans, mortgage insurance or loan servicing, which could impact the fair values of our securities. At September 28, 2008, we held a significant portion of our corporate cash in diversified portfolios of fixed and floating rate, investment grade marketable securities, mortgage and asset backed securities, non investment grade bank loans and bonds, preferred stocks, equities and other securities that have been affected by these credit market concerns and had temporary gross unrealized losses of $449 million. At October 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses of our marketable securities portfolio were approximately $1.3 billion. Although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur other than temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these and other similarly affected securities if U.S. credit and equity markets do not stabilize and recover to previous levels in the coming quarters. We engage in transactions in which certain fixed income and equity securities are loaned to selected broker dealers. We may incur a loss in the event that a broker does not return our securities, the collateral value is insufficient or cannot be maintained at required values or the lending agent fails to restore or pay us the cash value of our loaned securities. Interest Rate Risk. We invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest bearing securities. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest bearing securities could lose value. When the general economy weakens significantly, as it has recently, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. 57 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our interest bearing securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Maturity Total Fixed interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 758 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 758 Interest rate 3.1 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 1,562 $ 314 $ 279 $ 95 $ 39 $ 130 $ 198 $ 2,617 Interest rate 3.4 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 4.0 % 5.2 % 8.7 % 5.0 % Non investment grade $ 42 $ 13 $ 41 $ 67 $ 84 $ 521 $ $ 768 Interest rate 8.1 % 7.5 % 9.7 % 7.8 % 8.0 % 9.3 % Floating interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 903 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 903 Interest rate 2.0 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 588 $ 711 $ 114 $ 68 $ $ 87 $ 574 $ 2,142 Interest rate 2.9 % 3.0 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 5.2 % 4.5 % Non investment grade $ 13 $ 26 $ 57 $ 99 $ 136 $ 270 $ 684 $ 1,285 Interest rate 4.5 % 6.8 % 7.4 % 7.1 % 7.2 % 7.5 % 7.1 % Cash and cash equivalents and available for sale securities are recorded at fair value. Equity Price Risk. The recent major disruption in U.S. and foreign credit and financial markets caused increased volatility in the fair values of our equity securities and equity mutual and exchange traded fund shares. We have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equities held by mutual and exchange traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. The recorded values of marketable equity securities decreased to $1.34 billion at September 28, 2008 from $1.52 billion at September 30, 2007. The recorded values of equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares decreased to $1.28 billion at September 28, 2008 from $1.87 billion at September 30, 2007. The combined recorded values of marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange traded fund shares decreased by approximately $725 million due to price declines and by approximately $48 million as a result of actions taken to reduce our exposure to equity investments. We have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares at September 28, 2008 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $262 million. At October 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares were approximately $786 million. Foreign Exchange Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. Such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 28, 2008, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. At September 28, 2008, we had a net asset of $37 million related to our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of CDMA and WCDMA products. In the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions, which could materially impact our results. If our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $8 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. 58 Table of Contents Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
