Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Recent Developments Revenues for fiscal 2009 were $10.4 billion, with net income of $1.6 billion, which were impacted by the following key items: Both revenues and net income were adversely impacted by lower demand for CDMA based MSM integrated circuits during the first half of fiscal 2009 as a result of the slowdown in the global economy. We shipped approximately 317 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA based wireless devices, a decrease of 6%, compared to approximately 336 million MSM integrated circuits in fiscal 2008. In addition, net income was adversely impacted by other than temporary losses on marketable securities related primarily to the volatility in global financial markets. CDMA based device shipments totaled approximately 492 million units, an increase of 14% over the 433 million units shipped in fiscal 2008. (2) The average selling price of CDMA based devices was estimated to be approximately $200, a decrease of approximately 9% from the prior year. (2) We entered into a Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom Corporation. As a result of this agreement, we recorded a $783 million charge. In July 2009, the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) announced (although a written decision has not yet been issued) that it found us to be in violation of South Korean law by offering certain discounts and rebates for purchases of our CDMA chips and that it would levy a fine, as well as order us to cease the practices at issue. We intend to appeal the written decision once issued. As a result of this announcement, we recorded a $230 million charge. Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during fiscal 2009 with respect to key elements of our business or our industry: Worldwide wireless subscribers grew by approximately 16% to reach approximately 4.5 billion.(1) CDMA subscribers, including both 2G (cdmaOne) and 3G (CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, WCDMA, HSPA and TD SCDMA), are approximately 20% of total worldwide wireless subscribers to date. (1) 3G subscribers (all CDMA based) grew to approximately 885 million worldwide including approximately 455 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO subscribers and approximately 430 million WCDMA/HSPA/TD SCDMA subscribers. (1) In the handset market, CDMA based unit shipments grew an estimated 7% year over year, compared to an estimated decline of 7% year over year across all technologies. (3) In September 2009, the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) issued a Cease and Desist Order (CDO) seeking to require us to modify our existing license agreements with Japanese companies to eliminate certain cross license non assertion provisions in our license agreements, while preserving the license of our patents to those companies. We intend to invoke our right under Japanese law to an administrative hearing before the JFTC and to seek a stay of the CDO from the JFTC, and if necessary, from the Japanese courts. (1) According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 2, 2009, for the quarter ending September 30, 2009. Wireless Intelligence estimates for CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO subscribers do not include Wireless Local Loop. (2) Derived from reports provided by our licensees/manufacturers during the year and our own estimates of unreported activity. (3) Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, in their Global Handset Market Share Updates. Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, messaging and 42 Table of Contents other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers, data cards and infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the Mobile Station Modem (MSM), Radio Frequency (RF) and Power Management (PM) devices. These integrated circuits for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and baseband signals and power management. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling equipment manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operators base station equipment. QCT revenues comprised 59%, 60% and 59% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two stage manufacturing business model, we purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third party manufacturers for back end assembly and test services. We refer to this two stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). QTL grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 35%, 33% and 31% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The vast majority of such revenues have been generated through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA products. QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS), Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through mobile information products and services, software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets and workforce. Through September 2009, QES has shipped approximately 1,344,000 terrestrial based and satellite based mobile information units. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry, including BREW (Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless), the Plaza suite and other services. QIS also provides QChat push to talk, QPoint and other products for wireless network operators. The QGOV division provides development, hardware and analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies. Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable financial institutions and wireless operators to offer mobile commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 6%, 7% and 9% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. QSI manages the Companys strategic investment activities, including FLO TV Incorporated (FLO TV), formerly MediaFLO USA, Inc., our wholly owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI also makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA based products and services. Our strategy is to invest in early stage and other companies, including licensed device manufacturers, that we believe open new markets for CDMA technology, support the design and introduction of new CDMA based products or possess 43 Table of Contents unique capabilities or technology. Our FLO TV subsidiary offers its service over our nationwide multicasting network based on our MediaFLO Media Distribution System (MDS) and MediaFLO technology. This network is utilized as a shared resource for wireless operators and their customers in the United States. The commercial availability of the FLO TV service to retail wireless consumers continues to be determined, in part, by our wireless operator partners. FLO TVs network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses nationwide. Additionally, FLO TV has and will continue to procure, aggregate and distribute content in service packages which we will continue to make available on a wholesale basis to our wireless operator customers (whether they operate on CDMA, WCDMA or GSM networks) in the United States. Distribution, marketing, billing and customer care remain functions that are provided primarily by our wireless operator partners. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in the future, which may include distribution of our ownership interest in FLO TV to our stockholders in a spin off transaction. Nonreportable segments include: the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which is developing an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on micro electro mechanical system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics; the Qualcomm Flarion Technologies division, which is developing femtocell chipset products and other OFDM/OFDMA technologies; the MediaFLO Technologies division, which is developing our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology and markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States; and other product initiatives. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a range of mobile broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer electronics. Data applications include broadband connectivity, streaming video, location based services, mobile social networking and multimedia messaging. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3G products and services around the world. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: The network launches and further expansion of 3G in China, including CDMA2000 by China Telecom, WCDMA by China Unicom and TD SCDMA by China Mobile, is expected to drive competition and growth of 3G products and services in that region. The transition to 3G CDMA based networks is expected to continue: o More than 595 operators have commercially launched 3G networks, including 300 CDMA2000 networks and 295 WCDMA networks; (1)(2) o More than 110 CDMA2000 operators have commercially launched the higher data speeds of 1xEV DO and more than 75 have launched EV DO Revision A; (1) and o More than 280 WCDMA operators have commercially launched the higher data speeds of HSDPA, while more than 90 have launched HSUPA and 26 have launched HSPA. (2) We expect that CDMA based device prices will continue to segment into high and low end due to high volumes and vibrant competition in marketplaces around the world. As operators deploy the higher data speeds of HSPA, HSPA, EV DO Revision A and EV DO Revision B and as manufacturers introduce additional highly featured, converged devices, we expect consumer demand for advanced 3G devices to continue at a strong pace. To meet growing demand for advanced 3G wireless devices and increased multimedia functionality, we intend to continue to invest significant resources toward the development of wireless baseband chips, converged computing/communication chips, multimedia products, software and services for the wireless industry. We expect that a portion of our research and development initiatives in fiscal 2010 will not reach commercialization until several years in the future. We expect demand for cost effective wireless devices to continue to grow and have developed a family of Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC) products, which integrate the baseband, radio frequency and power management functions into a single chip or package, lowering component counts and enabling faster time to market for our customers. While we continue to invest aggressively to expand our QSC product family to address the low end market more effectively with CDMA based products, we still face significant competition from GSM based products, particularly in emerging markets. We expect to continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other technologies as part of our vision to enable a range of technologies, including the following products and technologies: 44 Table of Contents o The continued evolution of CDMA based technologies, including the long term roadmaps of 1xEV DO and High Speed Packet Access (HSPA); o OFDM and OFDMA based technologies, including LTE; o Our service applications platform, content delivery services and user interfaces; o Our Snapdragon platform to help create new CDMA based connected computing products and drive connectivity beyond traditional wireless devices; o Our Gobi mobile data modems to provide worldwide CDMA based embedded connectivity for existing computing platforms; o Our convergence based chips that include 3G modem and applications processor capabilities (including support for third party operating systems); o Our FLO TV mobile television service which includes product and distribution expansion beyond wireless operators through direct to consumer products such as automotive devices and personal television devices through retail channels; and o Our IMOD display technology. In addition to the foregoing business and market based matters, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business and results of operations over the next several months: We expect to continue to devote resources to working with and educating all participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. For example, we expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation, and to appear in front of administrative and regulatory bodies, including the European Commission, the Korea Fair Trade Commission and the Japan Fair Trade Commission, to defend our business model and to rebuff efforts by companies seeking to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage. We have been and will continue evaluating and providing reasonable assistance to our customers. This includes, in some cases, certain levels of financial support to minimize the impact of litigation in which we or our customers may become involved. The volatility in financial markets may continue to have an impact on the value of our marketable securities and net investment income (loss). (1) According to public reports made available at www.cdg.org as of October 27, 2009. (2) As reported by the Global mobile Suppliers Association, an international organization of WCDMA and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) suppliers, in their October 2009 reports. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report. Revenue Concentrations Revenues from customers in South Korea, China and Japan comprised 35%, 23% and 11%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2009, as compared to 35%, 21% and 14%, respectively, for fiscal 2008, and 31%, 21% and 17%, respectively, for fiscal 2007. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for QTLs licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. The decline in revenues from customers in Japan was primarily due to lower replacement rates in Japan. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share based payments, income taxes and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions 45 Table of Contents that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, royalties and license fees for our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. We record reductions to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special pricing agreements and other volume related rebate programs. Such reductions to revenue are based on estimates, including our assumptions related to historical and projected customer sales volumes, market share and inventory levels. We license rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of benefit to the licensee, typically five to fifteen years. We earn royalties on such licensed products sold worldwide by our licensees at the time that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter. We recognize royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. From time to time, licensees will not report royalties timely due to legal disputes, and when this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenues could be affected. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets in other types of transactions. As of September 27, 2009, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $1.5 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. For intangible assets purchased in a business combination or received in a non monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets received (or, for non monetary exchanges, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, except when neither the values of the assets received or the assets transferred in non monetary exchanges are determinable within reasonable limits. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and or cost approach are used to measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions which require significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires assumptions related to the appropriate business model to be used to estimate cash flows, total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our estimate of the fair value of certain assets, or our conclusion that the value of certain assets is not reliably estimable, may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models. New information may arise in the future that affects our fair value estimates and could result in adjustments to our estimates in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our net investment income (loss). 46 Table of Contents We hold minority investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. We also hold investments in other marketable securities, including non investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange traded funds, corporate bonds and notes, auction rate securities and mortgage and asset backed securities. These investments, which are recorded at fair value with increases or decreases generally recorded through stockholders equity as other comprehensive income or loss, totaled $15 billion at September 27, 2009. We record impairment charges through the statement of operations when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. In addition, the fair values of our strategic investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market volatility. Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring impairment charges. When assessing these investments for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been below its original cost, the extent of the general decline in prices or an increase in the default or recovery rates of securities in an asset class, negative events such as a bankruptcy filing or a need to raise capital or seek financial support from the government or others, the performance and pricing of the investees securities in relation to the securities of its competitors within the industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations, as applicable. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. If we determine that a security price decline is other than temporary, we may record an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded $743 million, $502 million and $16 million, respectively, in net other than temporary losses on our investments in marketable securities. Share Based Payments. We grant options to purchase our common stock to our employees and directors under our equity compensation plans. Eligible employees can also purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first or the last day of each six month offering period under our employee stock purchase plan. Share based compensation expense recognized during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $584 million, $543 million and $493 million, respectively. At September 27, 2009, total unrecognized estimated compensation expense related to non vested stock options granted prior to that date was $1.4 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.3 years. Net stock options, after forfeitures and cancellations, granted during fiscal 2009 represented 2.2% of outstanding shares as of the beginning of the fiscal period. Total stock options granted during fiscal 2009 represented 2.5% of outstanding shares as of the end of the fiscal period. We estimate the value of stock option awards on the date of grant using a lattice binomial option pricing model (binomial model). The determination of the fair value of share based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rate and expected dividends. We believe it is important for investors to be aware of the high degree of subjectivity involved when using option pricing models to estimate share based compensation. Option pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions, are fully transferable and do not cause dilution. Because our share based payments have characteristics significantly different from those of freely traded options, and because valuation model assumptions are subjective, in our opinion, existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our share based compensation awards. There is not currently a generally accepted market based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models. Although we estimate the fair value of employee share based awards, the option pricing model we use may not produce a value that is indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2009, we used the implied volatility of market traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to the binomial model. We utilized the term structure of volatility up to approximately two years, and we used the implied volatility of the option with the longest time to maturity for the expected volatility estimates for periods beyond two years. The weighted average volatility assumption was 42.7% for fiscal 2009, which if increased to 50%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2009 by $1.78 per share, or 11%. The authoritative guidance includes implied volatility in its list of factors that should be considered in estimating expected volatility. We believe implied volatility is more useful than historical volatility in estimating expected 47 Table of Contents volatility because it is generally reflective of both historical volatility and expectations of how future volatility will differ from historical volatility. The risk free interest rate is based on the yield curve of U.S. Treasury strip securities for a period consistent with the contractual life of the option in effect at the time of grant. The weighted average risk free interest rate assumption was 2.6% for fiscal 2009, which if increased to 6.0% would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2009 by $1.42 per share, or 8%. We do not target a specific dividend yield for our policy on dividend payments, but we are required to assume a dividend yield as an input to the binomial model. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of dividend payouts. The dividend yield assumption was 1.5% for fiscal 2009, which if decreased to 0.4% would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2009 by $1.14 per share, or 7%. Dividends and or increases or decreases in dividend payments are subject to approval by our Board of Directors as well as to future cash inflows and outflows resulting from operating performance, stock repurchase programs, mergers and acquisitions, and other sources and uses of cash. While our historical dividend rate is assumed to continue in the future, it may be subject to substantial change, and investors should not depend upon this forecast as a reliable indication of future cash distributions that will be made to investors. The post vesting forfeiture rate is estimated using historical option cancellation information. The weighted average post vesting forfeiture rate assumption was 9.2% for fiscal 2009, which if decreased to 1.5%, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2009 by $1.20 per share, or 7%. The suboptimal exercise factor is estimated using historical option exercise information. The weighted average suboptimal exercise factor assumption was 1.9 for fiscal 2009, which if increased to 2.5, would increase the weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal 2009 by $1.21 per share or 7%. Income Taxes. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be materially different from those which are reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded an income tax benefit of $155 million, adjusting our prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of various federal, state and foreign tax audits. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. As of September 27, 2009, gross deferred tax assets were $1.5 billion. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results. As of September 27, 2009, we had gross deferred tax assets of $510 million related to capital losses and $23 million related to foreign and state net operating losses. We can only use realized capital losses to offset realized capital gains. Based upon our assessments of when capital gains and losses will be realized, we estimate that our future capital gains will not be sufficient to utilize all of the temporary and other than temporary capital losses that were recorded through fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2009, we decreased our valuation allowance for the portion of capital losses we do not expect to utilize by $79 million to $55 million. This decrease was comprised of a $278 million net decrease in valuation allowance as a result of an increase in net unrealized gains on marketable securities, which was recorded as an increase in other comprehensive income, partially offset by a $199 million net increase in valuation allowance related to other than temporary impairments on investments, which was recognized 48 Table of Contents in earnings. We can only use net operating losses to offset taxable income of certain legal entities in certain tax jurisdictions. Based upon our assessments of projected future taxable income and losses and historical losses incurred by these entities, we expect that the future taxable income of the entities in these tax jurisdictions will not be sufficient to utilize the net operating losses we have incurred through fiscal 2009. Therefore, we have provided a $17 million valuation allowance for these net operating losses. Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future capital gains, the timing of realization of capital losses and the amount of future taxable income in certain jurisdictions. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of capital losses, capital gains and taxable income are reflected in the period the change is made. We consider the operating earnings of certain non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $3.0 billion related to the United States federal and state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $8.6 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside the United States. Should we decide to repatriate the foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States. We recognize windfall tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options directly to stockholders equity only when realized. A windfall tax benefit occurs when the actual tax benefit realized by us upon an employees disposition of a share based award exceeds the deferred tax asset, if any, associated with the award that we had recorded. When assessing whether a tax benefit relating to share based compensation has been realized, we follow the tax law ordering method, under which current year share based compensation deductions are assumed to be utilized before net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Other than amounts relating to the Korea Fair Trade Commission Complaint, we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liabilities associated with any other legal proceedings based on our belief that additional liabilities, while possible, are not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2009 were $10.42 billion, compared to $11.14 billion for fiscal 2008. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 31% and 30% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2009 were $6.47 billion, compared to $7.16 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $597 million reduction in revenues from sales of integrated circuit products, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, caused by the contraction in CDMA based channel inventory, and a $79 million decrease in QES revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2009 were $3.95 billion, compared to $3.98 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenues from licensing and royalty fees was primarily due to a $26 million decrease in BREW licensing revenues resulting from lower consumer demand and lower prices due to the slowdown in global economies and competitive pricing pressures. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2009 was $3.18 billion compared to $3.41 billion for fiscal 2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 49% for fiscal 2009, compared to 48% for fiscal 2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $41 million in share based compensation in fiscal 2009, compared to $39 million in fiscal 2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. 49 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2009, research and development expenses were $2.44 billion or 23% of revenues, compared to $2.28 billion or 20% of revenues for fiscal 2008. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $129 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, 1x Advanced, WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA, HSPA and LTE. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2009 included share based compensation and in process research and development of $280 million and $6 million, respectively, compared to $250 million and $14 million, respectively, in fiscal 2008. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2009, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.56 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.71 billion or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2008. The dollar decrease was primarily attributable to a $110 million decrease in professional fees, of which $72 million related to litigation and other legal matters, a $24 million decrease in selling and marketing expenses and a $19 million decrease in travel expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2009 included share based compensation of $263 million, compared to $254 million in fiscal 2008. Net Investment (Loss) Income. Net investment loss was $150 million for fiscal 2009, compared to net investment income of $96 million for fiscal 2008. The net decrease was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 27, September 28, 2009 2008 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 513 $ 487 $ 26 QSI 3 4 (1 ) Interest expense (24 ) (22 ) (2 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 107 104 3 QSI 30 51 (21 ) Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (734 ) (502 ) (232 ) QSI (29 ) (33 ) 4 Gains on derivative instruments 1 6 (5 ) Equity in (losses) earnings of investees (17 ) 1 (18 ) $ (150 ) $ 96 $ (246 ) Net other than temporary losses on marketable securities related primarily to depressed securities values caused by the prolonged disruption in global financial markets affecting consumers and the banking, finance and housing industries. This disruption is evidenced by a deterioration of confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for debt and equity securities. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $484 million for fiscal 2009, compared to $666 million for fiscal 2008. The annual effective tax rate was 23% for fiscal 2009, compared to 17% for fiscal 2008. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 is higher than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decrease in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, an increase in the valuation allowance on capital losses recognized in earnings and the revaluation of net deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law, partially offset by adjustments to prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of tax audits during fiscal 2009. 50 Table of Contents The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 of 23% is less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 20% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 7% related to adjustments to prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of tax audits during the year and 5% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by an increase in valuation allowance related to capital losses of 11%, the revaluation of net deferred items of 4% and state taxes of approximately 5%. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2008 were $11.14 billion, compared to $8.87 billion for fiscal 2007. Revenues from two customers of our QCT, QTL and QWI segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 30% and 27% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2008 were $7.16 billion, compared to $5.77 billion for fiscal 2007. The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $1.41 billion increase in revenues from sales of integrated circuit products, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2008 were $3.98 billion, compared to $3.11 billion for fiscal 2007. The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees primarily related to an increase in sales of CDMA based products reported by QTLs licensees other than Nokia, driven by the continued adoption of WCDMA at higher average selling prices than CDMA and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition, revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2008 included $560 million (attributable to both fiscal 2008 and 2007) related to agreements with Nokia. Revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2007 included royalty payments from Nokia only for sales of Nokia products through April 9, 2007. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2008 was $3.41 billion compared to $2.68 billion for fiscal 2007. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 48% for fiscal 2008, compared to 47% for fiscal 2007. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $39 million in share based compensation in both fiscal 2008 and 2007. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2008, research and development expenses were $2.28 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $1.83 billion or 21% of revenues for fiscal 2007. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $358 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The technologies supporting these initiatives may include CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV DO, EV DO Revision A, EV DO Revision B, WCDMA, HSDPA, HSUPA, HSPA and OFDMA. Research and development expenses related to the development of our MediaFLO technology, MediaFLO MDS, IMOD display products using MEMS technology, BREW products and mobile commerce applications increased by $63 million. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2008 included share based compensation and in process research and development of $250 million and $14 million, respectively, compared to $221 million and $10 million, respectively, in fiscal 2007. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2008, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.71 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.48 billion or 17% of revenues for fiscal 2007. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $137 million increase in employee related expenses and a $72 million increase in certain professional fees, primarily related to patent activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2008 included share based compensation of $254 million, compared to $233 million in fiscal 2007. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $96 million for fiscal 2008, compared to $743 million for fiscal 2007. The net decrease was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): 51 Table of Contents Year Ended September 28, September 30, 2008 2007 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 487 $ 551 $ (64 ) QSI 4 7 (3 ) Interest expense (22 ) (11 ) (11 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 104 201 (97 ) QSI 51 21 30 Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (502 ) (16 ) (486 ) QSI (33 ) (11 ) (22 ) Gains on derivative instruments 6 2 4 Equity in earnings (losses) of investees 1 (1 ) 2 $ 96 $ 743 $ (647 ) The decrease in interest and dividend income on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by corporate and other segments was primarily a result of lower interest rates earned on interest bearing securities. Other than temporary losses in fiscal 2008 included $327 million recognized in the fourth quarter on marketable securities held by corporate and other segments. Both other than temporary losses on marketable securities and the decrease in net realized gains on corporate investments were generally related to depressed securities values caused by the major disruption in global financial markets. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $666 million for fiscal 2008, compared to $323 million for fiscal 2007. The annual effective tax rate was 17% for fiscal 2008, compared to 9% for fiscal 2007. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 is higher than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 primarily due to the impact of prior year audits completed during fiscal 2007. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 is 18% lower than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 22% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, and 1% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of approximately 4% and 1% related to an increase in the valuation allowance. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2009 were $6.14 billion, compared to $6.72 billion for fiscal 2008. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $5.93 billion for fiscal 2009, compared to $6.53 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $770 million decrease related to lower unit shipments, caused by the contraction in CDMA based channel inventory. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $113 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately 317 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2009, compared to approximately 336 million for fiscal 2008. QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $1.44 billion, compared to $1.83 billion for fiscal 2008. QCT operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 23% in fiscal 2009, compared to 27% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to increased research and development expenses while revenues declined. QCT inventories decreased by 10% in fiscal 2009 from $453 million to $408 million primarily due to the net effects of changes in integrated circuit product mix and a decrease in average unit costs. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2009 were $3.61 billion, compared to $3.62 billion for fiscal 2008. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $3.07 billion, compared to $3.14 billion for fiscal 2008. QTL operating margin percentage was 85% in fiscal 2009, compared to 87% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to an increase in amortization related to acquired patents, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees related to litigation and other legal matters, which resulted in a corresponding decline in operating margin percentage. 52 Table of Contents QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2009 were $641 million, compared to $785 million for fiscal 2008. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $79 million decrease in QES revenues and a $71 million decrease in QIS revenues. The decrease in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a $50 million decrease in revenues from hardware product sales, due to a 47,500 unit reduction, or 52%, in the number of units shipped, and a $21 million decrease in messaging revenue. The decrease in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a $45 million decrease in QChat revenues resulting primarily from decreased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint and a $30 million decrease in BREW revenues resulting from lower consumer demand and lower prices due to the slowdown in global economies and competitive pricing pressures. QWI earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 was $20 million, compared to a loss before taxes of $1 million for fiscal 2008. QWI operating margin percentage was 3% in fiscal 2009, compared to zero percent in fiscal 2008. The increase in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses at QIS and QES, partially offset by an increase in the operating loss of Firethorn. The increase in QWI operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to improvements in QIS and QES gross margin percentage, partially offset by an increase in the operating loss of Firethorn. QSI Segment. QSI revenues for fiscal 2009 were $29 million, compared to $12 million for fiscal 2008. QSI loss before taxes for fiscal 2009 was $361 million, compared to $304 million for fiscal 2008. QSI revenues are attributable to our FLO TV subsidiary. QSI loss before taxes increased by $57 million primarily due to a $39 million increase in net investment losses (unrelated to FLO TV) and an $18 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiarys loss before taxes. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 The following should be read in conjunction with the financial results of fiscal 2008 and 2007 for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2008 were $6.72 billion, compared to $5.28 billion for fiscal 2007. Equipment and services revenues, mostly consisting of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $6.53 billion for fiscal 2008, compared to $5.12 billion for fiscal 2007. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from an increase of $1.23 billion related to higher unit shipments and an increase of $219 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average sales prices of such products. Approximately 336 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2008, compared to approximately 253 million for fiscal 2007. QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2008 were $1.83 billion, compared to $1.55 billion for fiscal 2007. QCT operating income as a percentage of its revenues (operating margin percentage) was 27% in fiscal 2008, compared to 29% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage related to an increase in reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and product support costs. QCT inventories increased by 17% in fiscal 2008 from $387 million to $453 million primarily due to the shift in our manufacturing business model from turnkey to IFM and the related work in process which includes purchased die and related back end assembly and test manufacturing services needed to complete QCT integrated circuit products. The increase is also attributable to an increase in finished goods associated with growth in sales volume. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2008 were $3.62 billion, compared to $2.77 billion for fiscal 2007. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2008 were $3.14 billion, compared to $2.34 billion for fiscal 2007. QTL operating margin percentage was 87% in fiscal 2008, compared to 84% in fiscal 2007. The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees primarily related to an increase in sales of CDMA based products reported by QTL licensees other than Nokia, driven by the continued adoption of WCDMA at higher average selling prices than CDMA and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition, QTL revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2008 included $560 million (attributable to both fiscal 2008 and 2007) related to the new agreement with Nokia. Revenues from licensing and royalties in fiscal 2007 included royalty payments from Nokia only for sales of Nokia products through April 9, 2007. The increase in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues and the effect of bad debt expenses recognized in fiscal 2007, partially offset by increases in research and development expenses and patent costs, which resulted in a corresponding increase in operating margin percentage. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2008 were $785 million, compared to $828 million for fiscal 2007. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $78 million decrease in QES revenues, partially offset by a $27 million increase in QIS revenues. The decrease in QES revenues was primarily attributable to an $88 million decrease in revenues from product sales, partially offset by an $11 million increase in messaging revenues. QES shipped approximately 91,200 terrestrial based and satellite based systems during fiscal 2008, compared to approximately 190,300 terrestrial based and satellite based systems in fiscal 2007. The increase in QIS revenues was primarily 53 Table of Contents attributable to increases in QChat revenues resulting from increased development efforts under a licensing agreement with Sprint and our expanded BREW customer base and products. QWI loss before taxes for fiscal 2008 was $1 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $88 million for fiscal 2007. QWI operating margin percentage was zero percent in fiscal 2008, compared to 11% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily due to the decrease in revenues, a $30 million increase in QIS research and development expenses related to our BREW products and a $34 million increase in operating expenses as a result of the acquisition of Firethorn during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, all of which contributed to a corresponding decline in operating margin percentage. QSI Segment. QSI revenues for fiscal 2008 were $12 million, compared to $1 million for fiscal 2007, related to the commencement of our FLO TV service in March 2007. QSI loss before taxes for fiscal 2008 was $304 million, compared to $240 million for fiscal 2007. QSI loss before taxes also included a $71 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiarys loss before taxes comprised primarily of an increase of $50 million in cost of equipment and services revenues and a $22 million increase in research and development expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $17.7 billion at September 27, 2009, an increase of $6.5 billion from September 28, 2008. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 27, 2009 consisted of $7.9 billion held domestically with the remaining balance of $9.8 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Due to tax considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically. Total cash provided by operating activities increased to $7.2 billion during fiscal 2009, compared to $3.6 billion during fiscal 2008 primarily due to collection of a $2.5 billion licensing receivable paid in October 2008. During fiscal 2009, we repurchased and retired 8,920,000 shares of our common stock for $284 million. At September 27, 2009, approximately $1.7 billion remained authorized for repurchases under our stock repurchase program. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. We intend to continue to repurchase shares of our common stock under this program subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that such repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders. We declared and paid dividends totaling $1.1 billion, $982 million and $862 million, or $0.66, $0.60 and $0.52 per common share, during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On October 2, 2009, we announced a cash dividend of $0.17 per share on our common stock, payable on December 23, 2009 to stockholders of record as of November 25, 2009. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Since September 2007, there has been a prolonged disruption in global financial markets that has contributed to a major crisis in debt and equity capital markets and a global economic recession. This period of economic weakness has impacted the value of our marketable securities. At September 27, 2009, gross unrealized gains on marketable securities were $870 million and gross unrealized losses were $196 million. At September 27, 2009, we concluded that the unrealized losses were temporary. Our relative weighting of these factors is reassessed when market or economic conditions change. Further, for equity securities, equity mutual and exchange traded funds and debt mutual funds with unrealized losses, we have the ability and the intent to hold such securities until they recover, which is expected to be within a reasonable period of time. For debt securities with unrealized losses, we do not have the intent to sell, nor is it more likely than not that we will be required to sell, such securities. As a result, we do not believe the decline in the fair value of our marketable securities will materially affect our liquidity. Accounts receivable decreased by 83% during fiscal 2009 primarily due to collection of a $2.5 billion licensing receivable, partial payment of amounts receivable for redemptions of money market funds and reclassification of the remaining net balance of these investment receivables to other assets, and a decrease of approximately $580 million in other accounts receivable. Days sales outstanding related to these other accounts receivable were 23 days at September 27, 2009 compared to 34 days at September 28, 2008. The decrease in other trade accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding were primarily due to the timing of cash receipts related to sales of integrated circuits. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations, in addition to our substantial untapped debt capacity, will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. Our total research and development expenditures were $2.4 billion in fiscal 2009 and $2.3 billion in fiscal 2008, and 54 Table of Contents we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for the wireless industry. Capital expenditures were $761 million in fiscal 2009 and $1.4 billion in fiscal 2008. Our purchase obligations for fiscal 2010, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $893 million, at September 27, 2009. Pursuant to the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom, we are obligated to pay a remaining $648 million ratably through April 2013. Cash used for strategic investments and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $54 million in fiscal 2009 and $298 million in fiscal 2008, and we expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions to open new markets for our technology, expand our technology, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business opportunities. Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 27, 2009, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Fiscal Period No Beyond Expiration Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Date Purchase obligations (1) $ 1,207 $ 893 $ 234 $ 25 $ 55 $ Operating lease obligations 450 84 99 44 223 Equity funding commitments (2) 4 4 Total commitments 1,661 977 333 69 278 4 Capital lease obligations(3) 446 14 27 28 377 Other long term liabilities (4)(5) 660 188 344 118 9 1 Total recorded liabilities 1,106 202 371 146 386 1 Total $ 2,767 $ 1,179 $ 704 $ 215 $ 664 $ 5 (1) Total purchase obligations include $683 million in commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories. (2) These commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all. (3) Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 27, 2009. (4) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Other long term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current portions. (5) Our consolidated balance sheet at September 27, 2009 included a $47 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions, all of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 27, 2009 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies. Future Accounting Requirements In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) revised the authoritative guidance for business combinations, which establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The guidance will be effective for our fiscal 2010 beginning September 28, 2009 and will change our accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis. The FASB issued authoritative guidance for fair value measurements in September 2006, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements. We adopted the provisions of the guidance for financial assets and liabilities effective September 29, 2008 but elected a partial deferral under the provisions related to nonfinancial 55 Table of Contents assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including goodwill, wireless licenses, other intangible and long lived assets, guarantees and asset retirement obligations. The adoption of this guidance in fiscal 2010 on such nonfinancial assets and liabilities is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2009, the FASB ratified the final consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) that revised the authoritative guidance for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. The guidance addresses how to determine whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one unit of accounting and how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting. The guidance will be effective for our fiscal 2011 beginning September 27, 2010 with early adoption permitted. The guidance may be applied retrospectively or prospectively for new or materially modified arrangements. We are in the process of evaluating early prospective adoption and determining the effects, if any, the adoption of the guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2009, the FASB also ratified the final consensus reached by the EITF that modifies the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude (a) non software components of tangible products and (b) software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed or leased with tangible products when the software components and non software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. The guidance will be effective for our fiscal 2011 beginning September 27, 2010 with early adoption permitted. The guidance may be applied retrospectively or prospectively for new or materially modified arrangements. We are in the process of evaluating early prospective adoption and determining the effects, if any, the adoption of the guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Market Risk. Since September 2007, there has been a prolonged disruption in global financial markets that has led to a major crisis in debt and equity capital markets and a global economic recession. This period of economic weakness has impacted the value of most types of investment and non investment grade bonds and debt obligations and mortgage and asset backed securities. At September 27, 2009, we held a significant portion of our corporate cash in diversified portfolios of fixed and floating rate, investment grade marketable securities, mortgage and asset backed securities, non investment grade bank loans and bonds, preferred stocks and other securities that have been affected by these credit market concerns and had temporary gross unrealized losses of $39 million. Although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other than temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these and other similarly affected securities if U.S. credit and equity markets do not stabilize and recover to previous levels in the coming quarters. Interest Rate Risk. We invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. We deposit our cash primarily with one major institution. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest bearing securities. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest bearing securities could lose value. As interest rates in the general economy have dropped significantly over the past several months, our floating interest bearing securities are earning less interest income. When the general economy weakens significantly, as it has recently, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. The following table provides information about our interest bearing securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 56 Table of Contents Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Maturity Total Fixed interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 470 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 470 Interest rate 0.4 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 1,481 $ 1,195 $ 673 $ 235 $ 669 $ 250 $ 2,600 $ 7,103 Interest rate 2.0 % 2.9 % 3.6 % 4.7 % 4.6 % 6.8 % 2.7 % Non investment grade $ 15 $ 27 $ 30 $ 88 $ 133 $ 713 $ 29 $ 1,035 Interest rate 9.2 % 12.7 % 11.0 % 10.5 % 10.2 % 10.8 % 0.7 % Floating interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,004 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,004 Interest rate 0.2 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 794 $ 742 $ 227 $ 14 $ $ 321 $ 619 $ 2,717 Interest rate 1.2 % 1.1 % 0.9 % 0.4 % 8.6 % 3.7 % Non investment grade $ 6 $ 12 $ 79 $ 204 $ 348 $ 162 $ 894 $ 1,705 Interest rate 26.6 % 7.6 % 6.8 % 6.8 % 7.2 % 9.1 % 4.2 % Cash and cash equivalents and available for sale securities are recorded at fair value. Equity Price Risk. The prolonged disruption in global financial markets has caused increased volatility in the fair values of our equity securities and equity mutual and exchange traded fund shares. We have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equities held by mutual and exchange traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. We have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares at September 27, 2009 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $247 million. At September 27, 2009, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange traded fund shares were approximately $157 million. Foreign Exchange Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. Such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. At September 27, 2009, we had a net liability of $28 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of CDMA and WCDMA products. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. In the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions, which could materially impact our results. If our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $19 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. 57 Table of Contents Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
