Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Recent Developments Revenues of $11.0 billion and net income of $3.2 billion for fiscal 2010 were impacted by the following key items: We shipped approximately 399 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA based wireless devices, an increase of 26%, compared to approximately 317 million MSM integrated circuits in fiscal 2009. The chipset volume in fiscal 2009 was affected by the slowdown in the worldwide economy. Total reported device sales were approximately $105.7 billion, an increase of approximately 7%, compared to approximately $98.5 billion in fiscal 2009. (1) Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during fiscal 2010 with respect to key elements of our business or our industry: Worldwide wireless subscribers grew by approximately 15% to reach approximately 5.2 billion.(2) Worldwide 3G subscribers (all CDMA based) grew to approximately 1.15 billion, approximately 22% of total wireless subscribers, including approximately 500 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO subscribers and approximately 645 million WCDMA/HSPA/TD SCDMA subscribers. (2) In the handset market, CDMA based unit shipments grew an estimated 21% year over year, compared to an estimated increase of 14% year over year across all technologies. (3) In June 2010, we won a 20 MHz slot of Broadband Wireless Access (BWA) spectrum in four telecom circles in India as a result of the completion of the BWA spectrum auction for $1.1 billion. We entered the BWA auction to facilitate the deployment of LTE technology as a complement to the existing 3G HSPA and EV DO networks in India. (1) Total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in U.S. dollars (as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed CDMA based subscriber devices (including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees during a particular period. Not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and packing costs, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may change from time to time. (2) According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 1, 2010, for the quarter ending September 30, 2010. Wireless Intelligence estimates for CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO subscribers do not include Wireless Local Loop. (3) Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, in their August 2010 Global Handset Market Share Update. Our Business and Operating Segments We design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our CDMA technology and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, license fees and royalties for use of our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of CDMA based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are used in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers, data cards and infrastructure equipment. The integrated circuits for wireless devices include the Mobile Station Modem (MSM), Mobile Data Modem (MDM), Qualcomm Single Chip (QSC), Qualcomm Snapdragon (QSD), Radio Frequency (RF), Power Management (PM) and Bluetooth devices. These 32 Table of Contents integrated circuits for wireless devices and system software perform voice and data communication, multimedia and global positioning functions, radio conversion between RF and baseband signals, power management and peripheral connectivity. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. The infrastructure equipment integrated circuits and system software perform the core baseband CDMA modem functionality in the wireless operators base station equipment. QCT revenues comprised 61%, 59% and 60% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the assembly and final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two stage manufacturing business model, we purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third party manufacturers for back end assembly and test services. We refer to this two stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL receives license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensees) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 33%, 35% and 33% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The vast majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA subscriber equipment products. QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS), Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through mobile information products and services and software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets and workforce. Through September 2010, QES has shipped approximately 1,423,000 terrestrial based and satellite based mobile information units. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry, including Brew, the Plaza suite and other services. QIS also provides QChat push to talk, QPoint and other products for wireless operators. QGOV provides development, hardware and analytical expertise involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies. Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable mobile commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 6%, 6% and 7% of total consolidated revenues fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. QSI consists of the Companys strategic investment activities, including FLO TV Incorporated (FLO TV), our wholly owned wireless multimedia operator subsidiary. QSI makes strategic investments in early stage and other companies and in wireless spectrum, such as the BWA spectrum recently won in the auction in India, that we believe will open new markets for CDMA and OFDMA based technologies, support the design and introduction of new CDMA and OFDMA products and services for wireless voice and internet data communications or possess unique capabilities or technology. Our FLO TV subsidiary offers its service over our nationwide multicast network based on our MediaFLO Media Distribution System (MDS) and MediaFLO technology, which leverages the Forward Link Only (FLO) air interface standard. This network is utilized as a shared resource for wireless operators and their customers in the United States. FLO TVs network uses the 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses nationwide. We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV service business. Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in the future. Nonreportable segments include: the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which continues to develop an interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology based on micro electro mechanical system (MEMS) structure 33 Table of Contents combined with thin film optics; the MediaFLO Technologies division, which is comprised of the FLO Technology group, which continues to develop our MediaFLO MDS and MediaFLO technology, and the FLO International group, which markets MediaFLO for deployment outside of the United States; and other product initiatives. Looking Forward The deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates than prior generation networks, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a wide range of mobile broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer electronics. Many wireless operators are also planning to complement their existing 3G networks by deploying OFDMA based technology, often called 4G, in new spectrum to gain additional capacity for data services. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3G and 3G/4G multimode products and services around the world. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business: The worldwide transition to 3G CDMA based networks is expected to continue. With the recently completed auction of 3G spectrum in India, we look forward to network launches and expansion of 3G in that region along with the continued expansion of 3G in China. We expect consumer demand for advanced 3G based devices, including smartphones, other data devices and new device categories, such as eBook readers and tablets, to continue at a strong pace. We also expect growth in lower end 3G devices as 3G expands in emerging markets. We still face significant competition in the lower end market from GSM based products, particularly in emerging markets. We expect that CDMA based device prices will continue to segment into high and low end due to increased development of smartphones and popularity of smartphone applications on the high end and high volumes and active competition throughout the world on both the low and high end. This, along with a tempered economic recovery combined with growth in emerging markets, is expected to continue to impact the average selling price of CDMA based devices. We continue to invest significant resources toward the development of technology to increase the data rates available with 3G and 4G networks, wireless baseband chips, converged computing/communication chips, multimedia products, software and services for the wireless industry. We continue to invest in the evolution of CDMA and a broad range of other technologies, such as LTE, our IMOD display technology and our Snapdragon platform, as part of our vision to enable a wide range of products and technologies. We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV service business. Additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options for the FLO TV business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the FLO TV network under a new wholesale service model; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network. In addition to the foregoing business and market based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless market. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report. Revenue Concentrations Revenues from customers in China, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan comprised 29%, 27% , 12% and 9%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2010, as compared to 23%, 35%, 8% and 11%, respectively, for fiscal 2009, and 21%, 35%, 5% and 14%, respectively, for fiscal 2008. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for QTLs licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 34 Table of Contents accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share based payments, income taxes and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, royalties and license fees for our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services, software hosting services and services related to delivery of multimedia content. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates. We record reductions to revenue for customer incentive programs, including special pricing agreements and other volume related rebate programs. Certain reductions to revenue for customer incentives are based on estimates, including our assumptions related to historical and projected customer sales volumes, market share and inventory levels. We license or otherwise provide rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Licensees typically pay a license fee in one or more installments and ongoing royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of benefit to the licensee, typically five to fifteen years. We earn royalties on such licensed products sold worldwide by our licensees at the time that the licensees sales occur. Our licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter. We recognize royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. From time to time, licensees will not report royalties timely due to legal disputes or other reasons, and when this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenues could be affected. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets in other types of transactions. At September 26, 2010, our goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $1.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. For intangible assets purchased in a business combination or received in a non monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets received (or, for non monetary exchanges, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, except when neither the values of the assets received or the assets transferred in non monetary exchanges are determinable within reasonable limits. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and or cost approach are used to measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions which require significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires assumptions related to the appropriate business model to be used to estimate cash flows, total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our estimate of the fair value of certain assets, or our conclusion that the value of certain assets is not reliably estimable, may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models. New information may arise in the future that affects our fair value estimates and could result in adjustments to our estimates in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or 35 Table of Contents their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our net investment income (loss). We hold minority investments in publicly traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. We also hold investments in other marketable securities, including non investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange traded funds, corporate bonds and notes, auction rate securities and mortgage and asset backed securities. These investments, which are recorded at fair value with increases or decreases generally recorded through stockholders equity as other comprehensive income or loss, totaled $14.9 billion at September 26, 2010. We record impairment charges through the statement of operations when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. In addition, the fair values of our strategic investments may be subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market volatility. Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring impairment charges. When assessing these investments for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been below its original cost, the extent of the general decline in prices or an increase in the default or recovery rates of securities in an asset class, negative events such as a bankruptcy filing or a need to raise capital or seek financial support from the government or others, the performance and pricing of the investees securities in relation to the securities of its competitors within the industry and the market in general and analyst recommendations, as applicable. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. If we determine that a security price decline is other than temporary, we may record an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded $111 million, $743 million and $502 million, respectively, in net impairment losses on our investments in marketable securities. Share Based Compensation. Share based compensation expense recognized during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $615 million, $584 million and $543 million, respectively. Share based compensation is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. We generally estimate the value of stock option awards using a lattice binomial option pricing model. Accordingly, the fair value of an option award as determined using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rates and expected dividends. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options, we used the implied volatility of market traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to the binomial model. The assumption inputs related to employee exercise behavior include estimates of the post vest forfeiture rate and suboptimal exercise factors, which are based on historical experience. In addition, judgment is required in estimating the amount of share based awards that are expected to be forfeited. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience. To the extent our actual forfeiture rate is different from our estimate, share based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. Income Taxes. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be materially different from those which are reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. We are participating in the IRS Compliance 36 Table of Contents Assurance Process program whereby we endeavor to agree with the IRS on the treatment of all issues prior to filing our federal return. A benefit of participation in this program is that post filing adjustments by the IRS are less likely to occur. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. At September 26, 2010, gross deferred tax assets were $2.8 billion. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results. We can only use net operating losses to offset taxable income of certain legal entities in certain tax jurisdictions. At September 26, 2010, we had unused federal, state and foreign net operating losses of $114 million, $284 million and $40 million, respectively. Based upon our assessments of projected future taxable income and losses and historical losses incurred by these entities, we expect that the future taxable income of the entities in these tax jurisdictions will not be sufficient to utilize the net operating losses we have incurred through fiscal 2010. Therefore, we have provided a $17 million valuation allowance for these net operating losses. Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future taxable income in certain jurisdictions. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of taxable income are reflected in the period the change is made. We consider the operating earnings of certain non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $4.2 billion related to the United States federal and state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $10.6 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside the United States. Should we decide to repatriate the foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. For example, we recorded a $783 million charge during fiscal 2009 in connection with a litigation settlement charge related to the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom. We are engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2010 were $10.99 billion, compared to $10.42 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 25% and 31% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2010 were $6.98 billion, compared to $6.47 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $541 million increase in QCT revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2010 were $4.01 billion, compared to $3.95 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in revenues from licensing and royalty fees was primarily due to a $56 million increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2010 was $3.52 billion, compared to $3.18 billion for fiscal 2009. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 50% for fiscal 2010, compared to 49% for fiscal 2009. The decrease in margin percentage was primarily attributable to the effect of increases in costs related to our FLO TV subsidiary and our QMT division, partially offset by an increase in QCT gross margin percentage. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $42 million in share based compensation in fiscal 2010, compared to $41 million for fiscal 2009. Cost of equipment 37 Table of Contents and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future periods depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2010, research and development expenses were $2.55 billion or 23% of revenues, compared to $2.44 billion or 23% of revenues for fiscal 2009. The dollar increase is primarily attributable to a $156 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The increase in research and development expenses was partially offset by a $65 million decrease in costs primarily related to the development of our asset tracking products and services and Brew products. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2010 included share based compensation of $300 million, compared to $280 million in fiscal 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2010, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.64 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.56 billion or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2009. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $61 million increase in selling and marketing expenses, a $56 million increase in patent related costs and a $23 million increase in employee related expenses, partially offset by a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2010 included share based compensation of $273 million, compared to $263 million in fiscal 2009. Other Operating Expenses. Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 included a $783 million charge in connection with the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom and a $230 million fine levied by the KFTC. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $751 million for fiscal 2010, compared to a net investment loss of $150 million for fiscal 2009. The net increase was comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 26, September 27, 2010 2009 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 522 $ 513 $ 9 QSI 8 3 $ 5 Interest expense (58 ) (24 ) (34 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 379 107 272 QSI 26 30 (4 ) Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (110 ) (734 ) 624 QSI (15 ) (29 ) 14 Gains on derivative instruments 3 1 2 Equity in losses of investees (4 ) (17 ) 13 $ 751 $ (150 ) $ 901 During fiscal 2010, we recorded lower impairment losses and higher realized gains on marketable securities, compared to fiscal 2009. Depressed security values caused by a major disruption in the United States and foreign financial markets impacted our results in fiscal 2009 and continued to cause impairment losses in fiscal 2010, but to a much lesser extent. The increase in interest expense is primarily the result of the short term bank loan related to the BWA spectrum recently won in the India auction. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $787 million for fiscal 2010, compared to $484 million for fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate was 20% for fiscal 2010, compared to 23% for fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was lower than fiscal 2009 primarily as a result of the net decrease in valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset related to capital losses and an increase in tax benefits related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefit related to tax audits settled during the year and a decrease in research and development tax credits. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was 20% and only reflected the United States federal research and development credits generated through December 31, 2009, the date on which they expired. The annual effective tax 38 Table of Contents rate for fiscal 2010 of 20% was less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of 22% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 1% related to a decrease in valuation allowance recorded in fiscal 2010 on the deferred tax asset related to capital losses and 1% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by state taxes of 5% and tax expense of 4% related to the valuation of deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law, primarily deferred revenue that was taxable in fiscal 2010, but for which the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in future years when the Companys state tax rate will be lower. Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, increased during fiscal 2010 primarily due to the establishment of the deferred tax asset related to revenue derived from the Companys 2008 license and settlement agreements with Nokia. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2009 were $10.42 billion, compared to $11.14 billion for fiscal 2008. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 31% and 30% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2009 were $6.47 billion, compared to $7.16 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $597 million decrease in QCT revenues and a $79 million decrease in QES revenues. Revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2009 were $3.95 billion, compared to $3.98 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenues from licensing and royalty fees was primarily due to a $26 million decrease in QIS revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2009 was $3.18 billion compared to $3.41 billion for fiscal 2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 49% for fiscal 2009, compared to 48% for fiscal 2008. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $41 million in share based compensation in fiscal 2009, compared to $39 million in fiscal 2008. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2009, research and development expenses were $2.44 billion or 23% of revenues, compared to $2.28 billion or 20% of revenues for fiscal 2008. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $129 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies, the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. Research and development expenses in fiscal 2009 included share based compensation and in process research and development of $280 million and $6 million, respectively, compared to $250 million and $14 million, respectively, in fiscal 2008. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2009, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.56 billion or 15% of revenues, compared to $1.71 billion or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2008. The dollar decrease was primarily attributable to a $110 million decrease in professional fees, of which $72 million related to litigation and other legal matters, a $24 million decrease in selling and marketing expenses and a $19 million decrease in travel expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2009 included share based compensation of $263 million, compared to $254 million in fiscal 2008. Other Operating Expenses. Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 included a $783 million charge in connection with the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom and a $230 million fine levied by the KFTC. Net Investment (Loss) Income. Net investment loss was $150 million for fiscal 2009, compared to net investment income of $96 million for fiscal 2008. The net decrease was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): 39 Table of Contents Year Ended September 27, September 28, 2009 2008 Change Interest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments $ 513 $ 487 $ 26 QSI 3 4 (1 ) Interest expense (24 ) (22 ) (2 ) Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments 107 104 3 QSI 30 51 (21 ) Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments (734 ) (502 ) (232 ) QSI (29 ) (33 ) 4 Gains on derivative instruments 1 6 (5 ) Equity in (losses) earnings of investees (17 ) 1 (18 ) $ (150 ) $ 96 $ (246 ) Net impairment losses on marketable securities related primarily to depressed securities values caused by the prolonged disruption in global financial markets affecting consumers and the banking, finance and housing industries. This disruption was evidenced by a deterioration of confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for debt and equity securities. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $484 million for fiscal 2009, compared to $666 million for fiscal 2008. The annual effective tax rate was 23% for fiscal 2009, compared to 17% for fiscal 2008. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was higher than the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decrease in foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, an increase in the valuation allowance on capital losses recognized in earnings and the revaluation of net deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law, partially offset by adjustments to prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of tax audits during fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 of 23% was less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of approximately 20% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, 7% related to adjustments to prior year estimates of uncertain tax positions as a result of tax audits during the year and 5% related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by an increase in valuation allowance related to capital losses of 11%, the revaluation of net deferred items of 4% and state taxes of approximately 5%. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2010 and 2009 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2010 were $6.70 billion, compared to $6.14 billion for fiscal 2009. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $6.47 billion for fiscal 2010, compared to $5.93 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $1.25 billion increase related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a decrease of $713 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately 399 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2010, compared to approximately 317 million for fiscal 2009. The chipset volume in fiscal 2009 was impacted by the slowdown in the worldwide economy that caused contraction in the CDMA based channel inventory and resulted in lower demand for CDMA based MSM integrated chips. QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $1.69 billion, compared to $1.44 million for fiscal 2009. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 25% in fiscal 2010, compared to 23% in fiscal 2009. The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in research and development expenses. The increase in QCT operating margin percentage was primarily due to an increase in gross margin percentage and a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues driven primarily by the increase in revenues. QCT gross 40 Table of Contents margin percentage increased as a result of the net effects of a decrease in average unit costs, lower average selling prices and favorable product mix. QCT inventory increased by 18% in fiscal 2010 from $408 million to $481 million primarily due to an increase in work in process associated with growth in sales volume and the net effects of changes in integrated circuit product mix. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2010 were $3.66 billion, compared to $3.61 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues in fiscal 2010 included $71 million attributable to fiscal 2009 that had previously not been recognized due to discussions regarding a license agreement that was signed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $3.02 billion, compared to $3.07 billion for fiscal 2009. QTL operating margin percentage was 83% in the fiscal 2010, compared to 85% in fiscal 2009. The decrease in QTL earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to an increase in patent related costs, partially offset by the increase in revenues, which resulted in a corresponding decrease in operating margin percentage. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2010 were $628 million, compared to $641 million for fiscal 2009. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $56 million decrease in QIS revenues, partially offset by a $31 million increase in QES revenues. The decrease in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a $39 million decrease in QChat revenues resulting from decreased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint and a $16 million decrease in Brew revenues resulting from lower consumer demand. The increase in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a $58 million increase in equipment revenue resulting from higher unit shipments, partially offset by a $31 million decrease in messaging and other services revenue. QWI earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $12 million, compared to $20 million for fiscal 2009. QWI operating margin percentage was 1% in fiscal 2010, compared to 3% in fiscal 2009. The decrease in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the decrease in revenues, partially offset by a decrease in research and development expenses. The decrease in QWI operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to a decrease in QIS gross margin percentage, partially offset by the decrease in research and development expenses. QSI Segment. QSI revenues for fiscal 2010 were $9 million, compared to $29 million for fiscal 2009. Revenues were attributable to our FLO TV subsidiary. The decrease in FLO TV revenues was primarily due to an increase in customer related incentives that were recorded as reductions in revenues and lower service related revenues. QSI loss before taxes for fiscal 2010 was $436 million, compared to $361 million for fiscal 2009. QSI loss before taxes increased by $75 million primarily due to a $135 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiarys loss before taxes, partially offset by a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license. We have commenced a restructuring plan under which we expect to exit the current FLO TV service business. There were no significant expenses recognized in fiscal 2010 related to this restructuring plan. In addition to our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur restructuring charges related to this plan in the range of $125 million to $175 million in fiscal 2011, which are primarily related to certain contractual obligations. Additional charges, including impairment of assets, may be incurred as we continue to evaluate or implement strategic options or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash flows associated with this business. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2009 were $6.14 billion, compared to $6.72 billion for fiscal 2008. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $5.93 billion for fiscal 2009, compared to $6.53 billion for fiscal 2008. The decrease in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $770 million decrease related to lower unit shipments, caused by the contraction in CDMA based channel inventory. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $113 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately 317 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2009, compared to approximately 336 million for fiscal 2008. QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $1.44 billion, compared to $1.83 billion for fiscal 2008. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 23% in fiscal 2009, compared to 27% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to increased research and development expenses while revenues declined. QCT inventories decreased by 10% in fiscal 2009 from $453 million to $408 million primarily due to the net effects of changes in integrated circuit product mix and a decrease in average unit costs. 41 Table of Contents QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2009 were $3.61 billion, compared to $3.62 billion for fiscal 2008. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $3.07 billion, compared to $3.14 billion for fiscal 2008. QTL operating margin percentage was 85% in fiscal 2009, compared to 87% in fiscal 2008. The decrease in earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to an increase in amortization related to acquired patents, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees related to litigation and other legal matters, which resulted in a corresponding decline in operating margin percentage. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2009 were $641 million, compared to $785 million for fiscal 2008. Revenues decreased primarily due to a $79 million decrease in QES revenues and a $71 million decrease in QIS revenues. The decrease in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a $50 million decrease in revenues from hardware product sales, due to a 47,500 unit reduction, or 52%, in the number of units shipped, and a $21 million decrease in messaging revenue. The decrease in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a $45 million decrease in QChat revenues resulting primarily from decreased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint and a $30 million decrease in Brew revenues resulting from lower consumer demand and lower prices due to the slowdown in global economies and competitive pricing pressures. QWI earnings before taxes for fiscal 2009 were $20 million, compared to a loss before taxes of $1 million for fiscal 2008. QWI operating margin percentage was 3% in fiscal 2009, compared to zero percent in fiscal 2008. The increase in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses of QIS and QES, partially offset by an increase in the operating loss of Firethorn. The increase in QWI operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to improvements in QIS and QES gross margin percentage, partially offset by an increase in the operating loss of Firethorn. QSI Segment. QSI revenues for fiscal 2009 were $29 million, compared to $12 million for fiscal 2008. QSI loss before taxes for fiscal 2009 was $361 million, compared to $304 million for fiscal 2008. QSI revenues were attributable to our FLO TV subsidiary. QSI loss before taxes increased by $57 million primarily due to a $39 million increase in net investment losses (unrelated to FLO TV) and an $18 million increase in our FLO TV subsidiarys loss before taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $18.4 billion at September 26, 2010, an increase of $660 million from September 27, 2009. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 26, 2010 consisted of $6.3 billion held domestically and $12.1 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Due to tax and accounting considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically. Total cash provided by operating activities decreased to $4.1 billion during fiscal 2010, compared to $7.2 billion during fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to collection of the $2.5 billion trade receivable in fiscal 2009 related to the license and settlement agreements completed with Nokia in September 2008. During fiscal 2010, we repurchased and retired 79,789,000 shares of our common stock for $3.0 billion. On March 1, 2010, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of our common stock, and $1.7 billion of that amount remained available at September 26, 2010. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. We intend to continue to repurchase shares of our common stock under this program as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that stock repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders. We declared and paid dividends totaling $1.2 billion, $1.1 billion and $982 million, or $0.72, $0.66 and $0.60 per common share, during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008. On March 1, 2010, we announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend per share of common stock from $0.17 to $0.19. We announced cash dividends totaling $305 million, or $0.19 per share, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, which were paid on September 24, 2010. On October 13, 2010, we announced a cash dividend of $0.19 per share on our common stock, payable on December 22, 2010 to stockholders of record as of November 24, 2010. We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Accounts receivable increased 4% during fiscal 2010. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 22 days at September 26, 2010 compared to 23 days at September 27, 2009. 42 Table of Contents We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans. The following working and other capital requirements are anticipated in fiscal 2011: Our total research and development expenditures were $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for the wireless industry. Capital expenditures were $426 million and $761 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and advance payment on spectrum was $1.1 billion in fiscal 2010. We anticipate that capital expenditures excluding the fiscal 2010 advance payment on spectrum will be more than three times higher in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to the construction of a new manufacturing facility in fiscal 2011 for our QMT division. Future capital expenditures may also be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted. Our purchase obligations for fiscal 2011, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $1.4 billion at September 26, 2010. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we expect to pay $1.4 billion to the United States tax authorities as a result of the cash and intangible assets received in connection with the 2008 license and settlement agreements with Nokia. We intend to use cash held domestically to settle this obligation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we are obligated to repay a $1.1 billion short term bank loan that is denominated in Indian rupees. The loan has a fixed interest rate of 6.75% per year with interest payments due monthly. The loan is related to the BWA spectrum recently won in the India auction. We expect to refinance a substantial portion of this short term bank loan with a long term bank loan in the first half of fiscal 2011. Pursuant to the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom, we are obligated to pay a remaining $475 million ratably through April 2013, including imputed interest, of which $173 million is payable in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2011, we anticipate incurring cash expenditures associated with the expected exit of the current FLO TV service business in the range of $160 million to $210 million, primarily related to certain contractual obligations, in addition to FLO TVs ongoing cash expenditures. Additional cash expenditures may be incurred as we continue to evaluate or implement strategic options or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash flows associated with this business. Cash used for strategic investments and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $94 million and $54 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and we expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions to open new markets for our technology, expand our technology, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business opportunities. Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii). At September 26, 2010, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions): 43 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Payments Due By Fiscal Period No Beyond Expiration Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Date Purchase obligations (1) $ 1,729 $ 1,401 $ 222 $ 67 $ 39 $ Operating lease obligations 471 95 100 48 228 Equity funding commitments (2) 30 30 Total commitments 2,230 1,496 322 115 267 30 Loan payable to banks 1,086 1,086 Capital lease obligations(3) 521 17 32 34 438 Other long term liabilities (4)(5) 305 293 12 Total recorded liabilities 1,912 1,103 325 34 450 Total $ 4,142 $ 2,599 $ 647 $ 149 $ 717 $ 30 (1) Total purchase obligations include $1.2 billion in commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories. (2) These commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all. (3) Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 26, 2010. (4) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Other long term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current portions. (5) Our consolidated balance sheet at September 26, 2010 included a $6 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax positions, all of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 26, 2010 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. We invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest bearing securities. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest bearing securities could lose value. When the general economy weakens significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well. The following table provides information about our interest bearing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and loan payable to banks that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that the interest bearing securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate the securities for presentation purposes. 44 Table of Contents Principal Amount by Expected Maturity Average Interest Rates (Dollars in millions) No Single 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Maturity Total Fixed interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 698 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 698 Interest rate 0.3 % Time deposits $ 400 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 400 Interest rate 0.6 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 1,299 $ 672 $ 695 $ 558 $ 162 $ 229 $ 1,818 $ 5,433 Interest rate 2.2 % 3.3 % 2.7 % 3.9 % 3.7 % 7.9 % 1.3 % Non investment grade $ 11 $ 25 $ 45 $ 107 $ 234 $ 836 $ 20 $ 1,278 Interest rate 12.6 % 8.7 % 9.7 % 9.6 % 10.3 % 8.7 % 0.7 % Floating interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,488 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,488 Interest rate 0.2 % Available for sale securities: Investment grade $ 785 $ 499 $ 225 $ 35 $ 29 $ 465 $ 451 $ 2,489 Interest rate 1.0 % 0.8 % 0.9 % 1.7 % 1.0 % 8.7 % 2.8 % Non investment grade $ 5 $ 39 $ 137 $ 317 $ 146 $ 372 $ 1,071 $ 2,087 Interest rate 7.6 % 5.7 % 6.5 % 6.6 % 6.4 % 7.0 % 4.1 % Loan payable to banks $ 1,086 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,086 Fixed interest rate 6.8 % Cash and cash equivalents and available for sale securities are recorded at fair value. The loan payable to banks approximates fair value. Equity Price Risk. We have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities held by mutual and exchange traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. We have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares at September 26, 2010 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $270 million. At September 26, 2010, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange traded fund shares were $11 million. Although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other than temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. Foreign Exchange Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. Such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. In the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. At September 26, 2010, we had a net liability of $13 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of CDMA based devices and a net liability of $2 million related to foreign currency option contracts that have been rendered ineffective as a result of changes in our forecast of royalty revenues. If our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 50% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $16 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. In addition, we are subject to market risk on foreign currency option contracts that have been deemed ineffective. If foreign exchange rates relevant to those contracts were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $20 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of our hedges. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. 45 Table of Contents At September 26, 2010, we had a fixed rate short term bank loan of $1.1 billion, which is payable in full in Indian rupees in December 2010. The loan is payable in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiary that is party to the loan, however we are subject to foreign currency translation risk, which may impact the amount of our liability for principal repayment and interest expense we record in the future. If the foreign currency exchange rate were to change unfavorably by 20%, additional interest expense would be negligible due to the short term nature of the loan. At September 26, 2010, we had an asset of $7 million related to foreign currency forward contracts that were not designated as hedges of certain payments to be made in Indian rupees in connection with the bank loan. We are subject to market risk on such contracts. If the foreign exchange rates relevant to those contracts were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $57 million. Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 
 
