Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsIn addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report.OverviewRecent DevelopmentsRevenues for fiscal 2011 were $15.0 billion, with net income of $4.3 billion, which were impacted by the following key items:We shipped approximately 483 million Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits for CDMA and OFDMA based wireless devices, an increase of 21%, compared to approximately 399 million MSM integrated circuits in fiscal 2010. (1) Total reported device sales were approximately $149.5 billion, an increase of approximately 41%, compared to approximately $105.7 billion in fiscal 2010. (2) On May 24, 2011, we acquired Atheros Communications, Inc., which was renamed Qualcomm Atheros, Inc. (Atheros), for total cash consideration of $3.1 billion, net of cash acquired, and the exchange of equity awards. Atheros was integrated into the Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT) segment.We executed a restructuring plan under which the FLO TV business and network were shut down, and we are no longer pursing our MediaFLO technologies business. We recorded net restructuring and restructuring related charges of $358 million in fiscal 2011. Our results of operations reflect the presentation of the FLO TV business as discontinued operations, and all prior period amounts have been adjusted accordingly.Against this backdrop, the following recent developments occurred during fiscal 2011 with respect to key elements of our business or our industry:Worldwide wireless connections grew by approximately 14% to reach approximately 5.9 billion. (3) Worldwide 3G connections (all CDMA based) grew to approximately 1.5 billion, approximately 25% of total wireless connections, including approximately 536 million CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO connections and approximately 951 million WCDMA/HSPA/TD SCDMA connections. (3) Unit shipments of CDMA based handsets grew an estimated 28% year over year, compared to an estimated increase of 12% year over year across all wireless technologies. (4) (1) During fiscal 2011, some customers built devices that incorporated two MSMs. In such cases, which represent less than 1% of our gross volume, we count only one MSM in reporting the MSM shipments.(2) Total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in U.S. dollars (as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed CDMA based subscriber devices (including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees during a particular period. Not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, such as transportation, insurance and packing costs, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may change from time to time. Total reported device sales for a particular period may include prior period activity that was not reported by the licensee until such particular period.(3) According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of October 31, 2011, for the quarter ending September 30, 2011. Wireless Intelligence estimates for CDMA2000 1X/1xEV DO connections do not include Wireless Local Loop.(4) Based on current reports by Strategy Analytics, a global research and consulting firm, in their August 2011 Global Handset Market Share Update.Our Business and Operating SegmentsWe design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital communications products and services based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, fixed license fees (payable in one or more installments) and ongoing royalties for use of our intellectual property, messaging and other services and related hardware sales, software development and licensing and related services and software hosting services. Operating expenses primarily consist of cost of equipment and services, research and development and selling, 30general and administrative expenses.We conduct business primarily through four reportable segments. These segments are: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies, or QCT; Qualcomm Technology Licensing, or QTL; Qualcomm Wireless & Internet, or QWI; and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives, or QSI.QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. QCTs integrated circuit products and system software are sold to or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu ray players. The MSM integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon enabled integrated circuits provide advanced application processing capabilities. QCTs system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. QCT revenues comprised 59%, 61% and 59% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die, cut from silicon wafers, that have been assembled into packages or modules and have completed the final test manufacturing processes. We rely on independent third party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two stage manufacturing business model, we purchase wafers and die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third party manufacturers for probe, assembly and final test services.QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and or OFDMA standards and their derivatives. QTL licensing revenues are comprised of license fees as well as royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensees) selling price of licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). QTL revenues comprised 36%, 33% and 35% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The vast majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees sales of cdmaOne, CDMA2000 and WCDMA subscriber equipment products.QWI, which includes Qualcomm Enterprise Services (QES), Qualcomm Internet Services (QIS), Qualcomm Government Technologies (QGOV) and Firethorn, generates revenues primarily through mobile information products and services and software and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. QES sells equipment, software and services used by transportation and other companies to connect wirelessly with their assets and workforce. Through September 2011, QES has shipped approximately 1,511,000 terrestrial based and satellite based mobile information units. QIS provides content enablement services for the wireless industry, including Brew, the Plaza suite and other services. QIS also provides QChat push to talk and other products for wireless operators. QGOV provides development, hardware, analytical expertise and services involving wireless communications technologies to United States government agencies. Firethorn builds and manages software applications that enable mobile commerce services. QWI revenues comprised 4%, 6% and 6% of total consolidated revenues fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.QSI makes strategic investments that we believe will open new opportunities for our technologies, support the design and introduction of new products and services for voice and data communications or possess unique capabilities or technology. Many of these strategic investments are in early stage companies. QSI also holds wireless spectrum. As part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies at some point in the future. The results of QSIs FLO TV business is presented as discontinued operations. Since the shut down of the FLO TV business and network on March 27, 2011, we have been working to sell our remaining assets and exit contracts. On December 20, 2010, we announced that we have agreed to sell substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by the U.S. FCC.Nonreportable segments include the Qualcomm MEMS Technologies division, which continues to develop an IMOD display technology based on micro electro mechanical system (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics, and 31other product initiatives. Discontinued OperationsOn December 20, 2010, we agreed to sell substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The agreement terminates on January 13, 2012; however, either party can extend the agreement for another 90 days thereafter if the FCC approval has not been received by then. The agreement followed our previously announced plan to restructure and evaluate strategic options related to the FLO TV business and network. The FLO TV business and network were shut down on March 27, 2011. Since then, we have been working to sell the remaining assets and exit contracts. The 700 MHz spectrum with a carrying value of $746 million that we have agreed to sell was classified as held for sale, and all other assets were considered disposed of, at September 25, 2011. Accordingly, the results of operations of the FLO TV business were presented as discontinued operations at September 25, 2011. Loss from discontinued operations includes share based payments and excludes certain general corporate expenses allocated to the FLO TV business during the periods presented. Our statements of operations for all prior periods have been adjusted to conform.Summarized results from discontinued operations were as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 25, 2011 September 26, 2010 September 27, 2009Revenues$5 $9 $29Loss from discontinued operations(507) (459) (327)Income tax benefit194 186 127Discontinued operations, net of income taxes$(313) $(273) $(200)Restructuring and restructuring related activities under our plan related to discontinued operations were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2012 as we continue to negotiate the exit of certain contracts and remove certain of our equipment from the network sites. During fiscal 2011, we recorded $300 million in restructuring related charges, primarily consisting of asset impairments and accelerated depreciation, and net restructuring charges of $58 million, including $48 million in contract termination costs. We estimate that we will incur future restructuring and restructuring related charges of up to $25 million, primarily related to lease exit costs. We may also realize certain gains, primarily due to the potential release of liabilities associated with ongoing efforts to exit certain contracts, the amount of which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Future cash expenditures are expected to be in the range of $75 million to $115 million. Looking ForwardThe deployment of 3G networks enables increased voice capacity and higher data rates than prior generation networks, thereby supporting more minutes of use and a wide range of mobile broadband data applications for handsets, 3G connected computing devices and other consumer electronics. Many wireless operators have or are planning to complement their existing 3G networks by deploying OFDMA based technology, often called 4G, in new spectrum to gain additional capacity for data services. As a result, we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3G and 3G/4G multimode products and services around the world. In addition, we expect an increasing number of devices, such as computers, consumer electronics and networking equipment, to require multiple communications technologies to support a variety of connected applications. As we look forward to the next several months, the following items are likely to have an impact on our business:The worldwide transition from 2G to 3G CDMA based networks is expected to continue, including the further expansion of 3G in China, India and other emerging regions. We expect consumer demand for advanced 3G based and 3G/4G multimode devices, including smartphones and data centric devices, such as tablets and e readers, to continue at a strong pace. We also expect growth in lower end 3G devices as 3G expands in emerging regions. We expect that CDMA based device prices will continue to vary broadly due to the increased penetration of smartphones combined with active competition throughout the world at all price tiers. This, along with varying rates of economic growth by region and stronger than average growth in emerging regions, is expected to continue to impact the average and range of selling prices of CDMA based devices.We continue to invest significant resources toward the development of technologies and products for voice and data communications, primarily in the wireless industry, including advancements to 3G CDMA and 4G LTE networks, 32wireless baseband chips, our converged computing/communications (Snapdragon) chips, multimedia products, software and services, as well as our IMOD display technology.We have agreed to sell substantially all of our 700 MHz spectrum for $1.9 billion, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. If the closing conditions are met, we expect to recognize a gain in discontinued operations of $1.2 billion.In addition to the foregoing business and market based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain as to the benefits of our business model in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless industry. However, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost effective competitors to their products. We expect that such companies will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world.Further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the Risk Factors included in this Annual Report.Revenue ConcentrationsRevenues from customers in China, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan comprised 32%, 19%, 17% and 8%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2011, as compared to 29%, 27%, 12% and 9%, respectively, for fiscal 2010, and 23%, 35%, 8% and 11%, respectively, for fiscal 2009. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for QTLs licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees.Critical Accounting EstimatesOur discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of intangible assets and investments, share based payments, income taxes and litigation. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We believe that the following significant accounting estimates may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated circuit products, licensing of our intellectual property and software, and sales of messaging, software hosting, software development and other services and related hardware. The timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but actual results may differ from our estimates.We license or otherwise provide rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Licensing revenues include license fees (payable in one or more installments) and ongoing royalties based on licensees sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property. License fees are recognized over the estimated period of benefit of the license to the licensee, typically 5 to 15 years. We recognize royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees during the quarter and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. From time to time, licensees will not report royalties timely due to legal disputes or other reasons, and when this occurs, the timing and comparability of royalty revenues could be affected. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Investments. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets in other types of transactions. At September 25, 2011, our goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $3.4 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. For intangible assets purchased in a business combination or received in a non monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets received (or, for non monetary exchanges, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, except when neither the values of the assets received or the assets transferred in non monetary exchanges are determinable within reasonable limits. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and or cost approach are used to measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions that require 33significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires assumptions related to the appropriate business model to be used to estimate cash flows, total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our estimate of the fair value of certain assets, or our conclusion that the value of certain assets is not reliably estimable, may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models. New information may arise in the future that affects our fair value estimates and could result in adjustments to our estimates in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.Goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amounts may be impaired. Long lived assets, such as property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and other intangible assets are based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows, volumes, market penetration and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. During fiscal 2011, we recorded a $114 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Firethorn division due to the operating performance of a new product application falling significantly short of expectations.We hold investments in marketable securities, including equity securities, non investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange traded funds, corporate bonds and notes, auction rate securities and mortgage and asset backed securities. The fair value of these investments totaled $15.5 billion at September 25, 2011, with increases and decreases in fair value generally recorded through stockholders equity as other comprehensive income or loss. We record impairment charges through the statement of operations when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. The determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. In addition, the fair values of our strategic investments may be subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to significant market volatility. Adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring impairment charges. When assessing these investments for an other than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost; how long the market value of the investment has been below its original cost; the extent of the general decline in prices or an increase in the default or recovery rates of securities in an asset class; negative events such as a bankruptcy filing or a need to raise capital or seek financial support from the government or others; the performance and pricing of the investees securities in relation to the securities of its competitors within the industry and the market in general; and analyst recommendations, as applicable. We also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. If we determine that a security price decline is other than temporary, we may record an impairment loss, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded $39 million, $111 million and $743 million, respectively, in net impairment losses on our investments in marketable securities. Share Based Compensation. Share based compensation expense recognized during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $821 million, $614 million and $584 million, respectively. Share based compensation is measured at the grant date, or at the acquisition date for assumed awards, based on the estimated fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. We estimate the fair value of stock option awards granted using a lattice binomial option pricing model and the fair value of stock option awards assumed using the Black Scholes option pricing model. Accordingly, the fair value of an option award as determined using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price on the valuation date as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk free interest rates and expected dividends. For purposes of estimating the fair value of stock options, we used the implied volatility of market traded options in our stock for the expected volatility assumption input to the option pricing model. The assumption inputs related to employee exercise behavior include estimates of the post vest forfeiture rate and suboptimal exercise factors, which are based on historical experience. Beginning in fiscal 2010, we began to issue restricted stock units (RSUs) to employees. Since such time, the number of stock options granted to employees has decreased, and we expect this trend to continue into the foreseeable future. We estimate the fair value of RSUs based on the fair value of the underlying stock on the date of grant or date the awards are assumed. If RSUs do not have the right to participate in dividends, the fair value is discounted by the dividend yield. Judgment is required in estimating the amount of share based awards that are expected to be forfeited. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience. To the extent our actual forfeiture rate is different from 34our estimate, share based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. Income Taxes. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations and any future examinations for the current or prior years in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Although we believe that the estimates and assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, adjustments could be materially different from those that are reflected in historical income tax provisions and recorded assets and liabilities. We are participating in the IRS Compliance Assurance Process program whereby we endeavor to agree with the IRS on the treatment of all issues prior to filing our federal return. A benefit of participation in this program is that post filing adjustments by the IRS are less likely to occur.We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. At September 25, 2011, net deferred tax assets were $2.7 billion, which included a valuation allowance of $98 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, or if there is a material change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate and an adverse impact on operating results.We can only use net operating losses to offset taxable income of certain legal entities in certain tax jurisdictions. At September 25, 2011, we had unused federal, state and foreign net operating losses of $167 million, $352 million and $76 million, respectively. Based upon our assessments of projected future taxable income and losses and historical losses incurred by these entities, we expect that the future taxable income of the entities in these tax jurisdictions will not be sufficient to utilize the net operating losses we have incurred through fiscal 2011. Therefore, we have provided a $29 million valuation allowance for these net operating losses. Significant judgment is required to forecast the timing and amount of future taxable income in certain jurisdictions. Adjustments to our valuation allowance based on changes to our forecast of taxable income are reflected in the period the change is made.We consider the operating earnings of certain non United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $4.7 billion related to the United States federal and state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $13.5 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside the United States. Should we decide to repatriate the foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely invested outside the United States. Litigation. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. Although there can be no assurance that unfavorable outcomes in any of these matters would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the actions. We estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. We record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. Where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. For example, we recorded a $783 million charge during fiscal 2009 in connection with a litigation settlement related to the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom. We are engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position.Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2011 were $14.96 billion, compared to $10.98 billion for fiscal 2010. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 26% and 25% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2011 were $9.22 billion, compared to $6.97 billion for fiscal 352010. The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $2.18 billion increase in QCT equipment and services revenues. Licensing revenues were $5.73 billion in fiscal 2011, compared to $4.01 billion in fiscal 2010. The increase in licensing revenues was primarily due to a $1.76 billion increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2011 was $4.88 billion, compared to $3.30 billion for fiscal 2010. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 53% for fiscal 2011, compared to 47% for fiscal 2010. The decrease in margin percentage was primarily attributable to a decrease in QCT gross margin percentage and the effect of $137 million in charges from the recognition of the step up of inventories to fair value and amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of Atheros in fiscal 2011. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $67 million in share based compensation in fiscal 2011, compared to $41 million in fiscal 2010. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues may fluctuate in future periods depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2011 were $3.00 billion or 20% of revenues, compared to $2.45 billion or 22% of revenues for fiscal 2010. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $403 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services, including lower cost devices, the integration of wireless with consumer electronics and computing, the convergence of multiband, multimode, multinetwork products and technologies, third party operating systems and services platforms. The percentage decrease was primarily attributable to the 36% increase in revenues relative to the 22% increase in cost. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2011 included share based compensation of $397 million, compared to $293 million in fiscal 2010. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2011 were $1.95 billion or 13% of revenues, compared to $1.50 billion or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2010 included a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license. The remaining dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $142 million increase in employee related expenses, a $66 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, primarily attributable to the acquisition of Atheros, a $44 million increase in charitable contributions, primarily resulting from the establishment of the Qualcomm Charitable Foundation in fiscal 2011, and a $21 million increase in outside services. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2011 included share based compensation of $349 million, compared to $263 million in fiscal 2010. Other Operating Expenses. We recorded a $114 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Firethorn division due to the operating performance of a new product application falling significantly short of expectations in fiscal 2011. Net Investment Income. Net investment income was $661 million for fiscal 2011, compared to $766 million for fiscal 2010. The net decrease was comprised as follows (in millions): Year Ended September 25, 2011 September 26, 2010 ChangeInterest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments$480 $522 $(42)QSI20 8 $12Interest expense(114) (43) (71)Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments335 379 (44)QSI2 26 (24)Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments(39) (110) 71QSI(13) (15) 2(Losses) gains on derivative instruments(3) 3 (6)Equity in losses of investees(7) (4) (3) $661 $766 $(105)The increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to the bank loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in June 2010. The decrease in net impairment losses on investments is due to an overall increase in marketable securities values compared to the prior fiscal year. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $1.1 billion for fiscal 2011, compared to $973 million for fiscal 2010. The 36annual effective tax rate was 20% for fiscal 2011, compared to 22% for fiscal 2010. During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the United States government extended the federal research and development tax credit to include qualified research expenditures paid or incurred after December 31, 2009 and before January 1, 2012. We recorded a tax benefit of $32 million related to fiscal 2010 in fiscal 2011 from the retroactive extension of this credit. Additionally, in fiscal 2011, we recorded a tax benefit of $44 million related to an agreement reached on a component of our fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2010 state tax returns. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 included tax expense of approximately $137 million that arose because certain deferred revenue was taxable in fiscal 2010, but the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in future years when our state tax rate will be lower as a result of California tax legislation enacted in 2009. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 of 20% was less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of 19% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate and benefits of 3% related to the research and development tax credit, partially offset by state taxes of 5% and tax expense of 1% related to the valuation of deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law.Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Revenues. Total revenues for fiscal 2010 were $10.98 billion, compared to $10.39 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues from two customers of our QCT and QTL segments (each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the period) comprised approximately 25% and 31% in aggregate of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2010 were $6.97 billion, compared to $6.44 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in revenues from sales of equipment and services was primarily due to a $541 million increase in QCT revenues. Licensing revenues were $4.01 billion in fiscal 2010, compared to $3.95 billion in fiscal 2009. The increase in licensing revenues was primarily due to a $56 million increase in QTL revenues. Cost of Equipment and Services. Cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2010 was $3.30 billion, compared to $3.03 billion for fiscal 2009. Cost of equipment and services revenues as a percentage of equipment and services revenues was 47% for both fiscal 2010 and 2009. The margin percentage was negatively impacted by the effect of an increase in costs related to our QMT division, which was offset by an increase in QCT gross margin percentage. Cost of equipment and services revenues included $41 million in share based compensation in fiscal 2010, compared to $40 million for fiscal 2009. Research and Development Expenses. For fiscal 2010, research and development expenses were $2.45 billion or 22% of revenues, compared to $2.35 billion or 23% of revenues for fiscal 2009. The dollar increase is primarily attributable to a $156 million increase in costs related to the development of integrated circuit products, next generation CDMA and OFDMA technologies and other initiatives to support the acceleration of advanced wireless products and services. The increase in research and development expenses was partially offset by a $69 million decrease in costs primarily related to the development of our asset tracking products and services and Brew products. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2010 included share based compensation of $293 million, compared to $272 million in fiscal 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. For fiscal 2010, selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.50 billion or 14% of revenues, compared to $1.46 billion or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2009. The dollar increase was primarily attributable to a $56 million increase in patent related costs, a $25 million increase in employee related expenses and a $16 million increase in selling and marketing expenses, partially offset by a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2010 included share based compensation of $263 million, compared to $252 million in fiscal 2009. Other Operating Expenses. Operating expenses for fiscal 2009 included a $783 million charge in connection with the Settlement and Patent License and Non Assert Agreement with Broadcom and a $230 million fine levied by the KFTC. Net Investment Income (Loss). Net investment income was $766 million for fiscal 2010, compared to net investment loss of $139 million for fiscal 2009. The net increase was primarily comprised as follows (in millions):37 Year Ended September 26, 2010 September 27, 2009 ChangeInterest and dividend income: Corporate and other segments$522 $513 $9QSI8 3 5Interest expense(43) (13) (30)Net realized gains on investments: Corporate and other segments379 107 272QSI26 30 (4)Net impairment losses on investments: Corporate and other segments(110) (734) 624QSI(15) (29) 14Gains on derivative instruments3 1 2Equity in losses of investees(4) (17) 13 $766 $(139) $905During fiscal 2010, we recorded lower impairment losses and higher realized gains on marketable securities, compared to fiscal 2009. Depressed security values caused by a major disruption in the United States and foreign financial markets impacted our results in fiscal 2009 and continued to cause impairment losses in fiscal 2010, but to a much lesser extent. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to the bank loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in June 2010. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense was $973 million for fiscal 2010, compared to $611 million for fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate was 22% for fiscal 2010, compared to 25% for fiscal 2009. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was lower than fiscal 2009 primarily as a result of the net decrease in valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset related to capital losses and an increase in tax benefits related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefit related to tax audits settled during the year and a decrease in research and development tax credits. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was 22% and only reflected the United States federal research and development credits generated through December 31, 2009, the date on which they expired. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 of 22% was less than the United States federal statutory rate primarily due to benefits of 20% related to foreign earnings taxed at less than the United States federal rate, partially offset by state taxes of 5% and tax expense of 4% related to the valuation of deferred tax assets to reflect changes in California law, primarily deferred revenue that was taxable in fiscal 2010, but for which the resulting deferred tax asset will reverse in future years when our state tax rate will be lower. Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2011 and 2010 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2011 were $8.86 billion, compared to $6.70 billion for fiscal 2010. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $8.65 billion for fiscal 2011, compared to $6.47 billion for fiscal 2010. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $1.48 billion increase related to higher unit shipments, a $391 million increase related to sales of connectivity products, primarily resulting from the acquisition of Atheros in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, and a $214 million increase related to the net effects of changes in product mix and lower selling prices of such products. Approximately 483 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2011 (excluding the second MSM for customers who built devices with two MSMs starting in fiscal 2011), compared to approximately 399 million in fiscal 2010.QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2011 were $2.06 billion, compared to $1.69 billion for fiscal 2010. The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues, partially offset by a $358 million increase in research and development expenses and a $143 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 23% in fiscal 2011, compared to 25% in fiscal 2010. The decrease in operating margin percentage was primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage, partially offset by the effect of a higher increase in QCT revenues relative to the increases in research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. QCT gross margin percentage decreased as a result of the net effects of lower average selling 38prices, unfavorable product mix and higher product support costs, partially offset by a decrease in average unit costs.QCT inventories increased by 48% in fiscal 2011 from $481 million to $714 million primarily due to the addition of inventories from the acquisition of Atheros and an increase in work in process and finished goods related to growth of the business and the timing of inventory builds. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2011 were $5.42 billion, compared to $3.66 billion for fiscal 2010. During the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we entered into agreements with two licensees to settle ongoing disputes, including an arbitration proceeding with Panasonic, and recorded $401 million in revenues related to prior quarters. The remaining $1.36 billion increase in revenues during fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increase in sales of CDMA based devices by licensees and higher average royalties per unit for CDMA based devices, partially offset by the effect of $71 million that was included in QTL revenues in fiscal 2010 but was attributable to fiscal 2009 due to discussions regarding a license agreement that was signed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2011 were $4.75 billion, compared to $3.02 billion for fiscal 2010. QTL operating margin percentage was 88% in fiscal 2011, compared to 83% in fiscal 2010. The increases in QTL earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were attributable to the 48% increase in licensing revenues relative to a 5% increase in operating expenses. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2011 were $656 million, compared to $628 million for fiscal 2010. Revenues increased primarily due to increases in QGOV and QES revenues of $27 million and $20 million, respectively, partially offset by a $23 million decrease in QIS revenues. The increase in QGOV revenues was primarily attributable to growth in customer funded development contracts, and the increase in QES revenues was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our asset tracking products. The decrease in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a decrease in Brew revenues resulting from lower consumer demand. QWI loss before taxes for fiscal 2011 was $152 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $12 million for fiscal 2010. QWI operating margin percentage was negative in fiscal 2011, compared to a 1% operating margin in fiscal 2010. The decreases in QWI earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily attributable to $120 million in impairment charges related to certain assets of our Firethorn division, including $114 million in goodwill impairment, and the operating loss of our QIS division. QSI Segment. QSI loss before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 was $132 million, compared to earnings before taxes from continuing operations of $7 million for fiscal 2010. QSI earnings before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2010 included a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license. The remaining $77 million increase in QSI loss before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2011 was primarily due to a $72 million increase in interest expense attributable to bank loans related to the BWA spectrum won in the India auction in June 2010.Our Segment Results for Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009The following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2010 and 2009 financial results for each reporting segment. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 10 Segment Information. QCT Segment. QCT revenues for fiscal 2010 were $6.70 billion, compared to $6.14 billion for fiscal 2009. Equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of MSM and accompanying RF and PM integrated circuits, were $6.47 billion for fiscal 2010, compared to $5.93 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in equipment and services revenues resulted primarily from a $1.25 billion increase related to higher unit shipments, partially offset by a decrease of $713 million related to the net effects of changes in product mix and the average selling prices of such products. Approximately 399 million MSM integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2010, compared to approximately 317 million for fiscal 2009. The chipset volume in fiscal 2009 was impacted by the slowdown in the worldwide economy that caused contraction in the CDMA based channel inventory and resulted in lower demand for CDMA based MSM integrated chips.QCT earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $1.69 billion, compared to $1.44 billion for fiscal 2009. The increase in QCT earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in research and development expenses. QCT operating income as a percentage of revenues (operating margin percentage) was 25% in fiscal 2010, compared to 23% in fiscal 2009. The increase in QCT operating margin percentage was primarily due to an increase in gross margin percentage and a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues driven primarily by the increase in revenues. QCT gross margin percentage increased as a result of the net effects of a decrease in average unit costs, lower average selling prices and favorable product mix. QTL Segment. QTL revenues for fiscal 2010 were $3.66 billion, compared to $3.61 billion for fiscal 2009. Revenues in fiscal 2010 included $71 million attributable to fiscal 2009 that had previously not been recognized due to discussions regarding a license agreement that was signed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. QTL earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $3.02 billion, compared to $3.07 billion for fiscal 2009. QTL operating margin percentage was 83% in the fiscal 2010, compared to 85% in fiscal 2009. The decreases in QTL earnings before taxes and operating margin percentage were primarily attributable to a higher increase in patent related costs relative to the increase in licensing revenues. QWI Segment. QWI revenues for fiscal 2010 were $628 million, compared to $641 million for fiscal 2009. Revenues 39decreased primarily due to a $56 million decrease in QIS revenues, partially offset by a $31 million increase in QES revenues. The decrease in QIS revenues was primarily attributable to a $39 million decrease in QChat revenues resulting from decreased development efforts under the licensing agreement with Sprint and a $16 million decrease in Brew revenues resulting from lower consumer demand. The increase in QES revenues was primarily attributable to a $58 million increase in equipment revenue resulting from higher unit shipments, partially offset by a $31 million decrease in messaging and other services revenue. QWI earnings before taxes for fiscal 2010 were $12 million, compared to $20 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in QWI earnings before taxes was primarily attributable to the decrease in revenues, partially offset by a decrease in research and development expenses. QWI operating margin percentage was 1% in fiscal 2010, compared to 3% in fiscal 2009. The decrease in QWI operating margin percentage was primarily attributable to a decrease in QIS gross margin percentage, partially offset by the decrease in research and development expenses. QSI Segment. QSI earnings before taxes from continuing operations for fiscal 2010 were $7 million, compared to loss before taxes from continuing operations of $54 million for fiscal 2009. The increase in QSI earnings before taxes was primarily due to a $62 million gain on the sale of our Australia spectrum license.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOur principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $20.9 billion at September 25, 2011, an increase of $2.5 billion from September 26, 2010. This increase included cash provided by operating activities of $4.9 billion and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our equity compensation plans of $2.6 billion, partially offset by cash used to acquire Atheros of $3.1 billion, net of cash acquired. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 25, 2011 consisted of $5.7 billion held domestically and $15.2 billion held by foreign subsidiaries. Of the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries at September 25, 2011, $13.5 billion would be subject to material tax effects if repatriated. Due to tax and accounting considerations, we derive liquidity for operations primarily from domestic cash flow and investments held domestically.During fiscal 2011, we repurchased 2,878,000 shares of our common stock for $142 million. In connection with the stock repurchase program, we have three put options outstanding, with expiration dates in fiscal 2012, that may require us to repurchase an aggregate of 11,800,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for $586 million, which would result in an average price per share of $49.64. Any shares repurchased are retired. At September 25, 2011, approximately $1.0 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program, net of put options outstanding. The stock repurchase program has no expiration date. Since September 25, 2011, we have repurchased 2,046,000 shares of our common stock for $99 million. We continue to evaluate repurchases under this program subject to capital availability and our view that such repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders.We paid dividends totaling $1.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, or $0.81, $0.72 and $0.66 per common share, during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On March 8, 2011, we announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend per share of common stock from $0.190 to $0.215. We announced cash dividends totaling $361 million, or $0.215 per share, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, which were paid on September 23, 2011. On October 11, 2011, we announced a cash dividend of $0.215 per share on our common stock, payable on December 21, 2011 to stockholders of record as of November 23, 2011. We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.Accounts receivable increased 36% during fiscal 2011. Days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 22 days at both September 25, 2011 and September 26, 2010. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to growth in the QCT business and the accounts receivable relating to Atheros, which were acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and our expected cash flow generated from operations will provide us with flexibility and satisfy our working and other capital requirements over the next fiscal year and beyond based on our current business plans.Our research and development expenditures were $3.0 billion and $2.5 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications, primarily in the wireless industry.Capital expenditures were $593 million and $426 million in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. We anticipate that capital expenditures will be higher in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, primarily due to estimated capital expenditures of more than $600 million in fiscal 2012 related to the continued construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan for our QMT division. The initial phase of the facility is primarily being funded using cash held by foreign subsidiaries, and the facility is expected to be operational in fiscal 2012. Future capital expenditures may also be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted.40Our purchase obligations for fiscal 2012, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $1.9 billion at September 25, 2011.The acquisition of Atheros was more significant than others we have made in the past. We expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions, the amounts of which could vary significantly, to open new opportunities for our technologies, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new business.The $994 million in loans related to the BWA spectrum won in India are due and payable in full in December 2012 and bear interest at an annual rate of 10%, which is based on the highest base rate among the bank lenders and reset quarterly, plus 0.25% with interest payments due monthly. As of September 25, 2011, all but one of the lenders had the right to demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on December 15, 2011 subject to sufficient prior written notice. As a result, the loans were classified as a component of current liabilities. The date by which those lenders were required to have given notice has now passed, and those lenders can no longer demand prepayment. One remaining lender can demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on February 28, 2012 ($152 million at September 25, 2011) if notice is given by December 15, 2011. In September 2011, we received a letter from the Government of Indias Department of Telecommunications (DoT) notifying us that our applications to obtain licenses to utilize the spectrum had been rejected. In response, we filed a petition with the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal seeking to overturn this letter. If the DoTs rejection of such applications were to be considered an event of default, the bank lenders could declare the loans due and payable immediately. We have received waivers from each of the bank lenders related to this matter until at least April 1, 2012, conditioned upon our continuing to pursue our legal rights in this matter, and agreeing that any default will be deemed cured under certain circumstances.Contractual Obligations / Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined in S K 303(a)(4)(ii).At September 25, 2011, our outstanding contractual obligations included (in millions):Contractual ObligationsPayments Due By Fiscal Period Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond2016 NoExpirationDatePurchase obligations(1)$2,098 $1,923 $102 $64 $9 $Loans payable(2)1,123 108 1,015 Operating lease obligations464 116 109 58 181 Capital lease obligations(3)395 12 25 27 331 Equity funding commitments(4)2 2Other long term liabilities(5)(6)173 4 155 13 1Total contractual obligations$4,255 $2,163 $1,406 $162 $521 $3(1) Total purchase obligations include $1.4 billion in commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories.(2) Amounts include principal and interest. The loans are payable in Indian rupees and bear interest at an annual rate based on the highest rate among the bank lenders, which is reset quarterly, plus 0.25% (10% at September 25, 2011). One lender can demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on February 28, 2012 ($152 million at September 25, 2011) if notice is given by December 15, 2011. We have received conditional waivers from each of the bank lenders until at least April 1, 2012. As a result of these items, the due date for all or a portion of the loans payable could be accelerated.(3) Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 25, 2011.(4) These commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed or funded under these arrangements; actual financing or funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.(5) Certain long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Other long term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current portions.(6) Our consolidated balance sheet at September 25, 2011 included a $38 million noncurrent liability for uncertain tax 41positions, all of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities.Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 25, 2011 is provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies.Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. We invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified investment and non investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. Changes in the general level of United States interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest bearing securities. If interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest bearing securities could lose value. When the general economy weakens significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. We may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade offs that do not perform well.The following table provides information about our interest bearing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and loans payable that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. Additionally, we have assumed that the interest bearing securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate the securities for presentation purposes.Principal Amount by Expected MaturityAverage Interest Rates(Dollars in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter No SingleMaturity TotalFixed interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents$2,131 $ $ $ $ $ $ $2,131Interest rate0.2% Marketable securities: Investment grade$1,445 $1,273 $737 $254 $404 $522 $2,032 $6,667Interest rate1.1% 1.6% 3.2% 3.0% 3.0% 5.8% 1.5% Non investment grade$3 $12 $30 $82 $135 $772 $12 $1,046Interest rate6.7% 7.8% 9.4% 9.4% 8.0% 8.0% 0.7% Floating interest bearing securities: Cash and cash equivalents$2,493 $ $ $ $ $ $ $2,493Interest rate0.04% Marketable securities: Investment grade$342 $572 $566 $10 $25 $389 $574 $2,478Interest rate0.6% 0.7% 1.0% 5.5% 2.7% 8.9% 1.9% Non investment grade$12 $60 $202 $130 $186 $923 $1,113 $2,626Interest rate6.3% 5.7% 6.3% 6.2% 5.0% 5.9% 4.5% Loans payable (1)$ $994 $ $ $ $ $ $994Floating interest rate 10.0% (1) Denominated in Indian rupees.Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The loans payable approximate fair value. As of September 25, 2011, all but one of the lenders of the loans payable had the right to demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on December 15, 2011, subject to sufficient prior written notice. The date by which those lenders were required to have given notice has now passed, and those lenders can no longer demand prepayment. One remaining lender can demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on February 28, 2012 ($152 million at September 25, 2011) if notice is given by December 15, 2011. We have received conditional waivers from each of the bank lenders until at least April 1, 2012. As a result of these items, the due date for all or a portion of the loans payable could be accelerated.42 Equity Price Risk. We hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and equity commingled and exchange traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. We have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares at September 25, 2011 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $263 million. At September 25, 2011, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange traded fund shares were $70 million. Although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other than temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period.In connection with our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options that require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. These written put options subject us to equity price risk. At September 25, 2011, we had three outstanding put options, enabling holders to sell 11,800,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for approximately $586 million. The put option liabilities, with a fair value of $80 million at September 25, 2011, were included in other current liabilities. If the fair value of our common stock at September 25, 2011 decreased by 15%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares by $12 million, net of the $75 million in premiums received. Foreign Exchange Risk. We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. Such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. In the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. At September 25, 2011, we had a net liability of $25 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of CDMA based devices. If our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 50% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $23 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. At September 25, 2011, we had an asset of $7 million related to a foreign currency forward contract that was designated as a net investment hedge of our investment in a wholly owned subsidiary in Australia. We are subject to market risk on such contract. If the exchange rates relevant to that contract were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $11 million. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies.At September 25, 2011, we had floating rate bank loans in the aggregate of $994 million, which are payable in full in Indian rupees in December 2012. The loans are payable in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries that are party to the loans; however, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk, which may impact our liability for principal repayment and interest expense that we will record in the future. If the foreign currency exchange rate were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur additional principal of $248 million and interest expense of $30 million through the remainder of the contractual terms of the loans.Financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non United States customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies.Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.
 
