Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10 K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. Critical Accounting Policies The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries and all partnerships in which the Company has a controlling interest. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives and valuation of real estate. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Minimum revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage and overage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. The leases typically provide for tenant reimbursements of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre petition and post petition claims. The Companys reported net income is directly affected by managements estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. The Company believes that its revenue recognition policy is in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles and in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition. Real Estate Land, buildings and fixtures and leasehold improvements are recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve or extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: Buildings 15 to 39 years Fixtures and leasehold improvements Terms of lease or useful lives, whichever is shorter The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Companys net income. Real estate under development on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet represents ground up development projects which are held for sale. These assets are not depreciated and any gain on sale of these assets is generally recognized using the full accrual method in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 66, Accounting for Real Estate Sales. 30 Long Lived Assets On a periodic basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the real estate properties may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if managements estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trend and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be written down to an amount to reflect the fair value of the property. Real estate held for sale is carried at cost and the sales price of such assets is estimated net of any selling costs. If, in managements opinion, the net sales price of the assets is less than the net book value of such assets, a valuation allowance is established. The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties and other investments. The Companys reported net income is directly affected by managements estimate of impairments and or valuation allowances recognized. Results of Operations Comparison 2001 to 2000 Revenues from rental property increased $9.2 million or 2.0% to $468.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared with $459.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. This net increase resulted primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of three operating properties during 2001, providing revenues of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, (ii) the full year impact related to the 12 operating properties acquired in 2000 providing incremental revenues of $3.5 million, and (iii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects and new leasing within the portfolio providing incremental revenues of approximately $11.9 million as compared to the corresponding year ended December 31, 2000, offset by (iv) the commencement of new redevelopment projects and tenant buyouts causing a temporary increase in vacancy, sales of certain shopping center properties throughout 2001 and 2000 and an overall decrease in shopping center portfolio occupancy to 90.1% at December 31, 2001 as compared to 92.9% at December 31, 2000 due primarily to bankruptcies of tenants and subsequent rejections of leases resulting in a decrease of revenues of approximately $7.5 million as compared to the preceding year. Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased $6.8 million or 2.5% to $282.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to $275.2 million for the preceding year. The rental property expense components of real estate taxes, operating and maintenance, and depreciation and amortization increased approximately $1.7 million, $4.3 million, and $3.1 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2000. These rental property expense increases are primarily due to property acquisitions during 2001 and 2000, renovations within the existing portfolio, the completion of certain redevelopment and development projects, and increased snow removal costs during 2001 offset by the disposition of certain shopping center properties. Interest expense decreased $2.7 million or 2.9% to $89.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared with $92.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. This decrease is primarily due to reduced interest costs on the Companys floating rate revolving credit facility and remarketed reset notes during the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to the preceding year. The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor stores premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises have been sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases decreased approximately $0.8 million or 21% to $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. This decrease is primarily due to the Ames Department Stores, Inc. bankruptcy filing and subsequent rejection of certain leases causing the occupancy to decrease to 81.3% at December 31, 2001 as compared to 93.0% at December 31, 2000 for the retail store lease portfolio. 31 During 1998, the Company formed KIR, a limited partnership established to invest in high quality retail properties financed primarily through the use of individual non recourse mortgages. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 property interests to KIR. On April 28, 1999, KIR sold a significant interest in the partnership to institutional investors. As a result, the Company holds a non controlling limited partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting. Equity in income of KIR increased $3.7 million to $13.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to $9.5 million for the preceding year. This increase is primarily due to the Companys increased capital investment in KIR totaling $30.8 million during 2001 and $29.6 million during 2000. The additional capital investments received by KIR from the Company and its other institutional partners were used to purchase additional shopping center properties throughout calendar years 2001 and 2000. Equity in income of other real estate joint ventures, net increased $36.5 million to $41.6 for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. This increase is primarily attributable to the Montgomery Ward asset designation rights transaction described below. During March 2001, the Company, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, formed a real estate joint venture (the "Ward Venture") in which the Company has a 50% interest, for purposes of acquiring asset designation rights for substantially all of the real estate property interests of the bankrupt estate of Montgomery Ward LLC and its affiliates. These asset designation rights have provided the Ward Venture the ability to direct the ultimate disposition of the 315 fee and leasehold interests held by the bankrupt estate. The Ward Venture has completed transactions on 271 properties, and the Company has recognized net profits of approximately $20.9 million after provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2001. The pre tax profits from the Ward Venture of approximately $34.6 million are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the caption Equity in income of other real estate joint ventures, net. Other income, net decreased $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to the preceding calendar year. Other income, net is primarily comprised of interest income, dividend income and realized gains related to the Companys investments and sales of certain marketable equity and debt securities. Operating and administrative expenses increased approximately $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to the preceding calendar year. This increase is primarily due to higher costs related to the growth of the Company including (i) increased senior management and staff levels, (ii) increased system related costs and (iii) other personnel related costs. In addition, the Company issued a stock grant award to a newly appointed executive officer of the Company valued at approximately $1.1 million during 2001. Effective January 1, 2001, the Company has elected taxable REIT subsidiary status for its wholly owned development subsidiary, KDI. KDI is primarily engaged in the ground up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion. During the year ended December 31, 2001, KDI sold two of its recently completed projects and five out parcels, in separate transactions, for approximately $61.3 million, which resulted in net gains of approximately $8.1 million after provision for income taxes. The pre tax profits of $13.4 million are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the caption Gain on sale of development properties. During 2001, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of three operating properties, including the sale of a property to KIR, and a portion of another operating property comprising in the aggregate approximately 0.6 million square feet of GLA. Cash proceeds from these dispositions aggregated approximately $46.7 million, which resulted in a net gain of approximately $3.0 million. Cash proceeds from the sale of the operating property in Elyria, OH totaling $5.8 million, together with an additional $7.1 million cash investment, was used to acquire an exchange shopping center property located in Lakeland, FL during August 2001. During 2000, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of ten shopping center properties. Sale prices from two of these dispositions aggregated approximately $4.5 million which approximated their aggregate net book value. Sale prices from eight of these dispositions aggregated approximately $29.7 million which resulted in net gains of approximately $4.0 million. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2001 was $236.5 million as compared to $205.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, representing an increase of $31.5 million. On a diluted per share basis, net income improved $0.25 for the year ended December 31, 2001, including the gains on sales of certain operating properties in the respective periods in 2001 and 2000. This improved performance reflects the combined effect of internal growth and property acquisitions in the core portfolio, profits from KDI, income from the investment in KIR and profits from the Ward Venture investment, which strengthened profitability. 32 Comparison 2000 to 1999 Revenues from rental property increased $25.5 million or 5.9% to $459.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, as compared with $433.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. This net increase resulted primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 12 shopping center properties during 2000, providing revenues of $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, (ii) the full year impact related to the 35 shopping center properties acquired in 1999 providing incremental revenues of $13.0 million, and (iii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, new leasing, and re tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental rates providing incremental revenues of approximately $22.4 million as compared to the corresponding year ended December 31, 1999. These increases were reduced as a result of the deconsolidation of 23 shopping center properties as of April 28, 1999 in connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR. Revenues from these 23 properties totaled approximately $16.3 million for the period January 1, 1999 to April 28, 1999. Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased $12.3 million or 4.7% to $275.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, as compared with $262.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. These net increases in rental property expenses are the result of the combined effect of (i) increased expenses relating to new property acquisitions made throughout calendar years 1999 and 2000, offset by (ii) the reduction of rental property expenses relating to the deconsolidation of 23 shopping center properties as of April 28, 1999, in connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR. Interest expense increased $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, reflecting higher average outstanding borrowings as compared to the preceding year resulting primarily from (i) the issuance of additional unsecured debt during 1999 and 2000, (ii) additional mortgage financing obtained on certain properties totaling approximately $44.2 million during 2000 and (iii) the assumption of mortgage debt during 1999 and 2000 in connection with certain property acquisitions offset by (iv) the deconsolidation of $252.4 million of mortgage debt on 19 properties as of April 28, 1999, in connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR. The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor stores premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 was $4.0 million and $4.1 million, respectively. During 1998, the Company formed KIR, a limited partnership established to invest in high quality retail properties financed primarily through the use of individual non recourse mortgages. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 property interests to KIR. On April 28, 1999, KIR sold a significant interest in the partnership to an institutional investor. As a result, the Company holds a non controlling limited partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting. The Companys equity in income of KIR for the year ended December 31, 2000 was $9.5 million and for the period April 28, 1999 to December 31, 1999 was approximately $6.0 million. Other income, net increased $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, as compared to the preceding calendar year. The net increase was primarily attributed to higher interest and dividend income related to the Companys investment in certain marketable equity and debt securities. Operating and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, as compared to the preceding calendar year. The increase is due primarily to an increase in senior management and staff levels and other personnel costs in connection with the growth of the Company. During 2000, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of ten operating properties. Sale prices from two of these dispositions aggregated approximately $4.5 million which approximated their aggregate net book value. Sale prices from eight of these dispositions aggregated approximately $29.7 million which resulted in net gains of approximately $4.0 million. During 1999, the Company disposed of six shopping center properties and a land parcel. Cash proceeds from four of these dispositions aggregated approximately $6.1 million, which approximated their aggregate net book value. During July 1999, the Company disposed of an additional shopping center property in New Port Richey, FL. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $0.5 million, together with an additional $5.5 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center property located in Greensboro, NC during September 1999. The sale of this property resulted in a gain of approximately $0.3 million 33 During October 1999, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of a shopping center and a land parcel for an aggregate sale price of approximately $4.5 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.3 million. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2000 was $205.0 million as compared to $176.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, representing an increase of $28.2 million. On a diluted per share basis, net income improved $0.27 for the year ended December 31, 2000, including the gains on sales of certain operating properties in the respective periods in 2000 and 1999. This improved performance is primarily attributable to the Companys strong acquisition and investment program, internal growth from development and redevelopment projects, growth in income from the investment in KIR and increased leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability. Tenant Concentrations The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependence on any single property, and a large tenant base. At December 31, 2001, the Companys five largest tenants include Kmart Corporation, Kohls, The Home Depot, TJX Companies and Wal Mart, which represented approximately 12.6%, 3.1%, 2.5%, 1.9% and 1.7%, respectively, of the Companys annualized base rental revenues. On January 22, 2002, Kmart Corporation ("Kmart") filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As of the filing date, Kmart occupied 69 locations (excluding the KIR Portfolio which includes six Kmart locations), representing 12.6% of the Companys annualized base rental revenues and 13.3% of the Companys total shopping center GLA. As of February 1, 2002, Kmart rejected its lease at 15 locations. These 15 locations represent approximately $16.3 million of annualized base rental revenues comprising approximately 1.6 million square feet of GLA. The average rent per square foot for these locations was approximately $10.43. As adjusted for these 15 rejected leases Kmart now represents 8.7% of annualized base rents and 10.4% of leased GLA. The Company is actively marketing these locations to prospective tenants, however, no assurances can be provided that these locations will be leased in the near term or at comparable rents previously paid by Kmart. The Company generally will have the right to file claims in connection with these rejected leases for lost rent equal to three years of rental obligations as well as other amounts related to obligations under the leases. Actual amounts to be received in satisfaction of these claims will be subject to Kmarts final plan of reorganization and the availability of funds to pay creditors such as the Company. On March 8, 2002, Kmart announced it would be closing an additional 284 locations of which 17 of these locations are leased from the Company. The Company had previously encumbered seven of these properties with individual non recourse mortgage loans. The annualized base rental revenues from these 17 locations is approximately $15.1 million. The annualized interest expense for the seven encumbered properties is approximately $5.6 million. As of the date of this filing of this annual report on Form 10 K, the Company has not been notified directly by Kmart as to the timing of these store closings or whether the leases will be assigned or rejected. Until such time as the leases are rejected in accordance with the bankruptcy proceedings, Kmart remains obligated for payments of rent and operating expenses at these locations and all other remaining locations. Liquidity and Capital Resources It is managements intention that the Company continually have access to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. As such, the Company intends to operate with and maintain a conservative capital structure with a level of debt to total market capitalization of 50% or less. As of December 31, 2001 the Companys level of debt to total market capitalization was 27%. In addition, the Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment grade debt ratings. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had a debt service coverage ratio of 3.9 times and a fixed charge coverage ratio of 3.2 times. The Company may, from time to time, seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and or mortgage financings and other debt and equity alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure. 34 Since the completion of the Companys IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $2.3 billion for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. The Company has a $250.0 million, unsecured revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2003. This credit facility, which replaced the Companys $215.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility has made available funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any short term working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2001 there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility. The Company also has a $200.0 million MTN program pursuant to which it may, from time to time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Companys debt maturities. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K.) In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had over 380 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio representing 87% of the Companys net operating income. During May 2001, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 for up to $750.0 million of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had $625.7 million available for issuance under this shelf registration statement. In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows which are expected to increase due to property acquisitions and growth in operating income in the existing portfolio and from other sources. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise, and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid increased to $209.8 million in 2001, compared to $189.9 million in 2000 and $169.7 million in 1999. The Companys dividend payout ratio, based on funds from operations on a per basic common share basis, for 2001, 2000 and 1999 was approximately 62.5%, 64.6% and 64.8%, respectively. Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward redevelopment projects during 2002 will be approximately $30.0 million to $50.0 million. Additionally, the Company anticipates its capital commitment toward ground up development during 2002 will be approximately $140.0 million to $160.0 million. The proceeds from the sales of development properties in 2002 should be sufficient to fund the ground up development capital requirements. The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term. In addition, the Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facility, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash flows from operations as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows increased to $287.4 million for 2001 from $250.5 million for 2000 and $237.2 million for 1999. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facility, MTNs, senior notes and mortgages payable with maturities ranging from 1 to 22 years. As of December 31, 2001, the Companys total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 5.3 years. In addition, the Company has non cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2001, the Company has certain shopping center properties that are subject to long term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has non cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Companys debt maturities and obligations under non cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2001 (in millions): 35 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Long Term Debt $123.4 $100.0 $108.9 $215.2 $119.5 $661.1 $1,328.1 Operating Leases Ground Leases $ 13.4 $ 12.6 $ 12.0 $ 10.8 $ 10.1 $136.3 $ 195.2 Retail Store Leases $ 10.3 $ 10.0 $ 8.2 $ 6.7 $ 5.2 $ 7.6 $ 48.0 The Company has $110.0 million of unsecured debt and $13.4 million of mortgage debt maturing in 2002. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its revolving credit facility and new debt financings. The Company also has letters of credit in connection with the collateralization of tax exempt mortgage bonds, completion guarantees for certain construction projects and guaranty of payment related to the acquisition of a development project. These letters of credit aggregate approximately $30.5 million. Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures The Company has investments in a number of unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These investments include the Companys 43.3% non controlling interest in KIR and varying interests in other real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures operate either shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non recourse mortgage loans. Non recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collaterized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents. The KIR joint venture was established for the purpose of investing in high quality real estate properties financed primarily with individual non recourse mortgages. The Company believes that these properties are appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company traditionally uses. As of December 31, 2001, KIR had interests in 64 properties comprising 12.0 million square feet of GLA. As of December 31, 2001, KIR had obtained individual non recourse mortgage loans on 62 of these properties aggregating approximately $935.1 million. These non recourse mortgage loans have maturities ranging from one to ten years and rates ranging from 6.57% to 8.47%. In addition, KIR has a $100.0 million revolving credit facility with a group of banks secured by the unfunded capital commitments of certain investors, including the Company. As of December 31, 2001, there was $15.0 million outstanding on this facility. As of December 31, 2001, the Company pro rata share of debt obligations relating to the KIR joint venture was approximately $411.4 million. The Company also has unfunded capital commitments to KIR in the amount of approximately $79.7 million as of December 31, 2001. (See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K.) The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with ownership interests ranging from 4% to 50%. As of December 31, 2001, these unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $254.4 million. The Companys pro rata share of these debt obligations was approximately $114.1 million. (See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K.) Effects of Inflation Many of the Companys leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants gross sales above pre determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Companys leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Companys leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Companys exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short term interest rates and will, from time to time, enter into interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating rate debt. 36 New Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("FASB No. 133"), as amended. FASB No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments. This accounting standard requires the Company to measure derivative instruments at fair value and to record them in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as an asset or liability, depending on the Companys rights or obligations under the applicable derivative contract. In addition, the fair value adjustments will be recorded in either stockholders equity or earnings in the current period based on the designation of the derivative. The effective portions of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges are reported in Other Comprehensive Income ("OCI"), a component of stockholders equity, and are subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. The changes in fair value of derivative instruments which are not designated as hedging instruments and the ineffective portions of hedges are recorded in earnings for the current period. The principal financial instruments currently used by the Company are interest rate swaps, foreign currency exchange forward contracts and warrant contracts. The Company, from time to time, hedges the future cash flows of its floating rate debt instruments to reduce its exposure to interest rate risk principally through interest rate swaps with major financial institutions. The Company has interest rate swap agreements on its $110.0 million floating rate MTN and its $100.0 million floating rate remarketed reset notes, which have been designated and qualified as cash flow hedges. The Company has determined that these swap agreements are highly effective in offsetting future variable interest cash flows related to the Companys debt portfolio. The adoption of FASB No. 133 as of January 1, 2001, resulted in a cumulative transition adjustment of $1.5 million to OCI and a corresponding liability of the same amount. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the change in the fair value of the interest rate swaps was $2.4 million which was recorded in OCI with a corresponding liability for the same amount. During 2001, the Company entered into two foreign currency forward contracts. The Company has designated these foreign currency forward contracts as fair value hedges. The Company expects these forward contracts to be highly effective in limiting its exposure to the variability in the fair value of its Canadian ("CAD") $56.1 million investments (approximately USD $35.8 million) as it relates to changes in the exchange rate. The gain or loss on the forward contracts will be recognized currently in earnings and the gain or loss on the CAD investment attributable to changes in the exchange rate will be recognized currently in earnings and shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged investment. During 2001, the Company acquired warrants to purchase the common stock of a Canadian REIT. The Company has designated the warrants as a cash flow hedge of the variability in expected future cash outflows upon purchasing the common stock. The Company has determined the hedged cash outflow is probable and expected to occur prior to the expiration date of the warrants. The Company has determined that the warrants are fully effective and recorded the change in fair value of the warrants of approximately $2.4 million in OCI with a corresponding asset for the same amount. During the next twelve months, the Company expects to reclassify to earnings as expense approximately $3.4 million of the current balance in accumulated OCI primarily related to the fair value of the interest rate swaps. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 141, Business combinations ("FASB No. 141") which addresses financial accounting and reporting for business combinations. Effective July 1, 2001, all business combinations must be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which requires an allocation of the purchase price paid to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Additionally, FASB No. 141 requires that an intangible asset be recognized as an asset apart from goodwill if it arises from contractual or legal rights. The impact of adopting FASB No. 141 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. 37 In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ("FASB No. 142"). This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for intangible assets acquired, goodwill and other intangible assets after their acquisition. This statement requires that goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives will not be amortized but rather will be tested at least annually for impairment. In addition, FASB No 142 requires disclosures about the carrying amount of and changes in goodwill from period to period. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired after June 30, 2001 will be subject immediately to the provisions of this statement. The provisions are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The impact of adopting this statement is not expected to be material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets ("FASB No. 144"), which supercedes SFAS No. 121. FASB No. 144 requires that long lived assets that are to be disposed of by sale be measured at the lower of book value or fair value less cost to sell. FASB No. 144 retains the requirements of SFAS No. 121 regarding impairment loss recognition and measurement. In addition, it requires that one accounting model be used for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. FASB No. 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The impact of adopting this statement is not expected to be material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As of December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately $227.6 million of floating rate debt outstanding. The interest rate risk on $210.0 million of such debt has been mitigated through the use of interest rate swap agreements (the "Swaps") with major financial institutions. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the counter party to the Swaps. The Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into these Swaps with major financial institutions. The Company believes the interest rate risk represented by the remaining $17.6 million of floating rate debt is not material to the Company or its overall capitalization. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had Canadian investments in marketable securities in the amount of CAD $26.3 million (approximately USD $16.9 million) and in real estate in the amount of CAD $29.8 million (approximately USD $18.9 million). The foreign currency exchange risk has been mitigated through the use of foreign currency forward contracts in the amount of CAD $56.1 million (the "Forward Contracts") with major financial institutions. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the counter party to the Forward Contracts. The Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into the Forward Contracts with major financial institutions. The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had no other material exposure to market risk. 
 
