FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20080221215233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 19, 2008 the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Nordstrom, Inc. (the "Company") approved the following executive compensation actions relative to the Company's Named Executive Officers as set forth in the Company's proxy statement dated April 12, 2007 (the "NEOs"):
 
No changes in base compensation were approved.
On February 19, 2008, the Committee also awarded stock option grants to the Company's five NEOs, effective February 28, 2008. Stock options were granted pursuant to the terms of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Stock option grants have a term of ten years with an exercise price equivalent to the fair market value of the Company's stock on February 28, 2008. Vesting occurs at the rate of 25% annually beginning one year from the date of grant. The number of options to be awarded to each individual is a function of base pay, a long-term incentive (LTI) percentage and the fair value of an option. The Binomial Lattice model is used to estimate the fair value of an option. This model requires the input of certain assumptions, including risk-free interest rate, volatility, dividend yield, and expected life. The formula for determining the number of options granted is:
The 2008 Stock Option Award Agreement and Form of Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
On February 19, 2008, the Committee also awarded Performance Share Units
 
("PSUs") to the Company's five NEOs. PSUs are granted pursuant to the terms of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. PSUs entitle the participant to settle in shares of Company Common Stock or to elect cash in lieu thereof upon the achievement of such performance goals as may be established by the Committee at the time of grant based on any one or combination of certain performance criteria enumerated in the Plan. The 2008 PSUs are earned over a three-year period from fiscal year 2008 through fiscal year 2010. The percentage of PSUs granted that will actually be earned at the end of the three-year period is based upon the Company's total shareholder return compared to the total shareholder return of companies in a pre-defined group of retail peers. Additionally, PSUs will only be earned if the Company's total shareholder return for the period is positive. The number of units to be awarded to each individual is a function of base pay, a long-term incentive (LTI) percentage and the value of a performance share unit (discounted to reflect the risk of forfeiture). The formula for determining the number of units granted is:
The 2008 Performance Share Unit Award Agreement and Form of Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
Also on February 19, 2008, the Committee certified the level of attainment of the pre-established performance goals for the 2005 PSU grant relating to fiscal years 2005 through 2007 at 125%. The PSUs for the NEOs were all paid in cash. The number of PSUs vested and the corresponding cash payment to settle those PSUs for each of the NEOs was as follows:
On February 20, 2008, the Committee established bonus goals, performance levels and award levels that may be earned during the fiscal year ending January 31, 2009 ("Fiscal Year 2008") under the Company's shareholder approved Executive Management Group Bonus Plan (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, bonus awards are paid only when performance goals are achieved. The bonus target and maximum payments are expressed as a percentage of base salary and the bonus goals vary by position depending on each participant's area of responsibility and influence.
 
Fiscal Year 2008 bonus arrangements for the Company's NEOs were established by the Compensation Committee as follows (Earnings before interest and taxes is referred to in the table below as "EBIT" and Return on Invested Capital is referred to as "ROIC")
:
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
On February 20, 2008, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has approved an increased quarterly dividend. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On February 20, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors amended the Corporate Governance Guidelines to add a compensation recovery policy commonly referred to as a "clawback" as new Section 11 to the Guidelines. The policy permits the Board to recover compensation previously paid to the Company's executive officers based on financial statements that are ultimately materially restated if the executive officer engaged in grossly negligent or intentional misconduct that caused or substantially caused the need for the material misstatement. The Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines can be found on the Company's website at , Investors Relations tab, Corporate Governance, then Guidelines. The clawback policy has also been incorporated into the 2008 Stock Option Award Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, the 2008 Performance Share Unit Award Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and also applies to the Fiscal Year 2008 bonus arrangements for the Company's NEOs.
www.nordstrom.com
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 21, 2008
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

 
Exhibit 10.1
for the number of shares of Common Stock (hereinafter the "Option") as noted in the (the "Notice"), of Nordstrom, Inc., a Washington Corporation (the "Company"), is hereby granted to the "Optionee" on the date set forth in the Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The Option is also subject to the terms, definitions and provisions of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and approved by the Company's shareholders, which is incorporated in this Agreement. To the extent inconsistent with this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall govern. The Compensation Committee of the Board has the discretionary authority to construe and interpret the Plan and this Agreement. The Option is subject to the following:
A NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION GRANT
2008 Notice of Grant of Stock Options
1   |   Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement Time-Vested Option
 
2   |   Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement Time-Vested Option
 
3   |   Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement Time-Vested Option
 
Effective , you were awarded nonqualified stock options under the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to purchase shares of Nordstrom, Inc. stock at per share.
February 28, 2008
x,xxx
$x.xx
Your grant is governed by your 2008 Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement and the terms of the Plan. Your options under this grant will vest over the four-year vesting period as outlined below:
Please keep this Notice for your records.
If you have any questions about your grant, please contact Nordstrom Leadership Benefits at (206) 303-5855, tie line 8-805-5855, or leadership.benefits@nordstrom.com.

 
Exhibit 10.2
representing a number of shares of Common Stock (hereinafter the "Units") as noted in the (the "Notice"), of Nordstrom, Inc., a Washington Corporation (the "Company"), is hereby granted to the "Unit holder" on the date set forth in the Notice, subject to the terms of this Agreement. The Units are also subject to the terms, definitions and provisions of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and approved by the Company's shareholders, which is incorporated in this Agreement. Each vested Unit is equal in value to one share of Nordstrom Common Stock. To the extent inconsistent with this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall govern. The Compensation Committee of the Board has the discretionary authority to construe and interpret the Plan and this Agreement. The Units are subject to the following:
AN AWARD FOR PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS,
2008 Notice of Award of Performance Share Units
1   |   Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
 
2   |   Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
 
3   |   Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
 
On , you were awarded Performance Share Units (PSUs) under the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
February 19, 2008
x,xxx
Your PSUs are governed by the terms of your 2008 PSU Award Agreement and the terms of the Plan. Your PSUs are earned based on the Nordstrom Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the performance of our retail peer group over the three-year period ending on January 29, 2011 ("Performance Cycle").
At the end of the Performance Cycle, if Nordstrom TSR is a positive number, your PSUs will be earned as shown below:
The relative percentile rankings may change during the Performance Cycle based upon mergers, acquisitions, dissolutions and other industry consolidation involving the companies in the peer group. If that occurs, the application of the percentile vesting above will still be applied consistently, relative to the remaining or resulting members of the peer group at the end of the Performance Cycle.
TSR results are provided to you via e-mail on a quarterly basis during the fiscal year. The periodic TSR communication shows you how Nordstrom stock is performing in relation to our retail peer group for each PSU grant, and the progress that has been made toward earning your PSUs. Final vesting of PSUs will be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and based on the actual TSR measured at the end of the Performance Cycle.
Please keep this Notice for your records.
If you have any questions about your grant, please contact Nordstrom Leadership Benefits at (206) 303-5855, tie line 8-805-5855, or leadership.benefits@nordstrom.com.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) announced today that its board of directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share payable on March 14, 2008, to shareholders of record on February 29, 2008. The previous quarterly dividend amount was $0.135 per share.
SEATTLE  February 20, 2008 
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 157 stores located in 28 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 102 Full-line stores, 50 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, one free-standing shoe store, and two clearance stores. Nordstrom also serves customers through its online presence at http://www.nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom, Inc. is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.


