FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20090108083754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
On January 8, 2009, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing its preliminary December 2008 sales. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 8, 2009
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
      Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported preliminary sales of $1.13 billion for the five-week period ended January 3, 2009, a decrease of 8.0 percent compared with sales of $1.22 billion for the five-week period ended January 5, 2008. Same-store sales for December decreased 10.6 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2007.
SEATTLE, Wash. (January 8, 2009)
     Preliminary quarter-to-date sales of $1.83 billion decreased 9.6 percent compared with sales of $2.03 billion during the same period in fiscal 2007. Quarter-to-date same-store sales decreased 12.7 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2007.
     Preliminary year-to-date sales of $7.80 billion decreased 6.5 percent compared with sales of $8.34 billion for the same period in fiscal 2007. Year-to-date same-store sales decreased 8.9 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2007.
     While sales trends have been challenging, Nordstrom's holiday sales performance exceeded its expectations. The company continues to make the appropriate inventory adjustments and expects inventory levels to be more aligned with current sales trends by the end of the fiscal year. As a result of higher than expected competitive markdown pressure across the industry, the company now expects that its earnings per share for the fourth quarter will not meet its previously announced outlook of $0.35 to $0.45.
Sales Recording
     To hear Nordstrom's pre-recorded December sales message, please dial 800-891-8250 or 402-220-6036. This recording will be available for one week.
DECEMBER SALES RESULTS
(unaudited; $ in millions)
 
 
Future Reporting Dates
     Nordstrom's financial release calendar for the next three months is currently planned as follows:
     Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 169 stores located in 28 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 109 full-line stores, 56 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, and two clearance stores. In addition, Nordstrom serves customers through its online presence at http://www.nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom, Inc. is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
     
Certain statements in this news release contain or may suggest "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), including the company's expected monthly financial result and anticipated earnings results for the fourth quarter. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to the impact of deteriorating economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, the company's ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends, the competitive pricing environment within the retail sector, effective inventory management, the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing, and promotional campaigns, successful execution of the company's store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties, the company's compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting the company's ability to extend credit to its customers, the company's compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to the company, successful execution of the company's multi-channel strategy, the company's ability to safeguard its brand and reputation, efficient and proper allocation of the company's capital resources, successful execution of the company's technology strategy, trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, availability and cost of credit, changes in interest rates, the company's ability to maintain its relationships with its employees and to effectively train and develop its future leaders, the company's ability to control costs, risks related to fluctuations in world currencies, weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns, and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company. For additional information regarding these and other risk factors, please refer to the company's SEC reports, including its
Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 and its
Form 10-Q
for the fiscal quarter ended November 1, 2008. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.


