FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20090814162954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
          Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
          Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
          Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
          Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On August 14, 2009, Nordstrom, Inc. entered into a Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with each of the initial lenders named therein as Lenders, Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as syndication agent and RBS Citizens, N.A. and U.S. Bank, National Association as documentation agents. This new credit facility has a capacity of $650 million, and replaced our existing $650 million unsecured line of credit which was scheduled to expire in November 2010. The new credit facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful general corporate purposes, including as liquidity support for our commercial paper program. Under the terms of the agreement, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. Based upon our current debt rating, we would pay a variable rate of interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 2.125% on the outstanding balance and an annual commitment fee of 0.375% on the total capacity. The Revolving Credit Agreement expires in August 2012, and contains restrictive covenants, which includes maintaining leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios.
Many of the investment banking firms that are a party to the Revolving Credit Agreement or their affiliates have in the past performed, and may in the future from time to time perform, investment banking, financial advisory, lending and/or commercial banking services for us and certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates, for which service they have in the past received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation and reimbursement of expenses.
ITEM 1.02 TERMINATION OF A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
The disclosure provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02. On August 14, 2009, in connection with the credit facility described in Item 1.01, Nordstrom, Inc. terminated its Revolving Credit Facility, dated November 4, 2005 with the financial institutions named therein as Lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agents, U.S. Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agent and Bank Of America, N.A., as administrative agent. Under the terms of this credit facility, we paid a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR plus a margin of 0.225% on the outstanding balance and an annual commitment fee of 0.075% on the total capacity. The agreement contained restrictive covenants, which included maintaining a leverage ratio.
ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
The disclosure provided in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03. The Revolving Credit Agreement contains standard provisions relating to default and acceleration of our payment obligations upon the occurrence of an event of default, including: the failure to pay principal, interest, fees or other amounts when due; cross-default with other indebtedness; failure to comply with specified agreements, covenants, or obligations; the making of any materially misleading or untrue representation, warranty or certification; commencement of bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings by or against us; entry of one or more judgments against us that exceed $50 million either individually or in the aggregate; or the failure to pay amounts due to the PBGC or a Plan under Title IV of ERISA.
 
We also have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $100 million to $750 million provided that we obtain a written consent for the increase from each Lender that is increasing their commitment. In addition, no default or event of default can exist at the time of the request and if any amounts are outstanding at the time of the request, we must prepay one or more existing Revolving Loans in an amount necessary such that after giving effect to the increase in the Revolving Committed Amount each Lender will hold its pro rata share (based on its share of the revised Revolving Committed Amount) of outstanding Revolving Loans.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 14, 2009
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
     
Brooke White    Nordstrom, Inc. (206) 373-3030
MEDIA CONTACT:
           Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) announced today that it has completed a new three-year $650 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The new facility replaces a $650 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that was scheduled to mature in November 2010.
SEATTLE, Wash. (August 14, 2009)
Effective today, the facility may be used for general corporate purposes and is scheduled to mature in August 2012. At present, there are no outstanding borrowings under the revolver.
The arrangement of the revolving credit facility was co-led by Banc of America Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.
About Nordstrom
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 175 stores located in 28 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 111 full-line stores, 61 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, and one clearance store. In addition, Nordstrom serves customers through its online presence at http://www.nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom, Inc's common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
     
Certain statements in this news release contain or may suggest "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), including the company's planned store openings and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to the impact of deteriorating economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, the company's ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends, the company's ability to safeguard its brand and reputation, effective inventory management, efficient and proper allocation of the company's capital resources, successful execution of the company's store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties, the company's compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting the company's ability to extend credit to its customers, trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, availability and cost of credit, changes in interest rates, disruptions in the company's supply chain, the company's ability to maintain its relationship with vendors and developers who may be experiencing economic difficulties, the geographic locations of the company's stores, the company's ability to maintain its relationships with its employees and to effectively train and develop its future leaders, the company's compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to the company, successful execution of the company's information technology strategy, successful execution of the company's multi-channel strategy, risks related to fluctuations in world currencies, weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns, the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing, and promotional campaigns, the company's ability to control costs, and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company. For additional information regarding these and other risk factors, please refer to the company's SEC reports, including its
Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.


