FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20091123174128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01
OTHER EVENTS
On November 17, 2009, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Nordstrom, Inc. (the "Company") approved the form of 2010 Stock Option Award Agreement. Any stock options awarded under this agreement will be pursuant to the terms of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Such awards will have a term of ten years with an exercise price equivalent to the fair market value of the Company's stock on the date of grant. Under the terms of the agreement, vesting of any grant would occur at a rate of 25% annually, beginning one year from the date of the grant. A copy of the form of 2010 Stock Option Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
In addition, on November 17, 2009 the Committee approved the form of 2010 Performance Share Unit Award Agreement. Performance Share Units ("PSUs") are granted pursuant to the terms of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. PSUs entitle the participant to settle in shares of Company Common Stock or to elect cash in lieu thereof upon the achievement of such performance goals as may be established by the Committee at the time of grant based on any one or combination of certain performance criteria enumerated in the Plan. If granted, any 2010 PSUs will be earned over a three-year period from fiscal year 2010 through fiscal year 2012. The percentage of PSUs granted that will actually be earned at the end of the three-year period is based on the Company's total shareholder return compared to the total shareholder return of companies in a pre-defined group of retail peers. Additionally, PSUs will only be earned if the Company's total shareholder return for the period is positive. A copy of the 2010 Performance Share Unit Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 23, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
A NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION GRANT (hereinafter the "Option") for the number of shares of Nordstrom Common Stock ("Common Stock"), as noted in the (the "Notice"), of Nordstrom, Inc., a Washington Corporation (the "Company"), is hereby granted to the Recipient ("Optionee") on the date set forth in the Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Option is also subject to the terms, definitions and provisions of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") and approved by the Company's shareholders, which is incorporated in this Agreement. To the extent inconsistent with this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Terms not defined herein shall have the meanings as set forth in the Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") has the discretionary authority to construe and interpret the Plan and this Agreement. All decisions of the Compensation Committee upon any question arising under the Plan or under this Agreement shall be final and binding on all parties. The Option is subject to the following terms and conditions:
2010 Notice of Grant of Stock Options
The Company has made arrangements with a broker for Option management and exercises.
The certificate(s) or shares of Common Stock as to which the Option shall be exercised shall be registered in the name of the person(s) exercising the Option unless another person is specified. An Option hereunder may not at any time be exercised for a fractional number of shares.
1 | Nonqualified Stock Option Grant Agreement Time-Vested Option
 
Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, if at any time during the Optionee's employment with the Company, the Optionee directly or indirectly, either as an employee, employer, consultant, agent, principal, partner, shareholder, corporate officer, director or in any other capacity, engages or assists any third party in engaging in any business competitive with the Company; divulges any confidential or proprietary information of the Company to a third party who is not authorized by the Company to receive the confidential or proprietary information; or improperly uses any confidential or proprietary information of the Company, then the post-separation vesting and exercise rights of the Option set forth above shall cease immediately, and all outstanding vested and unvested portions of the Option shall be forfeited.
then the Board shall recover from the Section 16 executive officer such compensation (in whole or in part) as it deems appropriate under the circumstances.
In the event the Clawback Policy is deemed unenforceable with respect to the Option, or with respect to the proceeds received in connection with the exercise of the Option or subsequent sale of such issued Common Stock, then the Option grant subject to this Agreement shall be deemed unenforceable due to lack of adequate consideration.
2 | Nonqualified Stock Option Grant Agreement Time-Vested Option
 
Agreement may unilaterally waive any provision hereof, except in writing. Any such modification, amendment or waiver signed by, or binding upon, the Optionee, shall be valid and binding upon any and all persons or entities who may, at any time, have or claim any rights under or pursuant to this Agreement.
3 | Nonqualified Stock Option Grant Agreement Time-Vested Option

Exhibit 10.2
AN AWARD FOR PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS (hereinafter the "Units"), representing a number of shares of Nordstrom Common Stock ("Common Stock") as noted in the (the "Notice"), of Nordstrom, Inc., a Washington Corporation (the "Company"), is hereby granted to the Recipient ("Unit holder") on the date set forth in the Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Units are also subject to the terms, definitions and provisions of the Nordstrom, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") and approved by the Company's shareholders, which is incorporated in this Agreement. To the extent inconsistent with this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall govern. Terms not defined herein shall have the meanings as set forth in the Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") has the discretionary authority to construe and interpret the Plan and this Agreement. All decisions of the Compensation Committee upon any question arising under the Plan or under this Agreement shall be final and binding on all parties. The Award and the Units issued thereunder are subject to the following terms and conditions:
2010 Notice of Award of Performance Share Units
While the relative percentile rankings may change during the Performance Cycle based upon mergers, acquisitions, dissolutions and other industry consolidation involving the companies in the Peer Group, the application of the percentile vesting above is applied consistently. Generally, Units will be earned if the Nordstrom TSR for the Performance Cycle is positive and in the top half of performers relative to the other companies in the Peer Group.
1 | Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
 
the Unit holder's beneficiary shall be entitled to a prorated payment with respect to vested Units based on the period of service during the term of this Agreement. If the Units were granted less than six months prior to death, the Units shall be forfeited as of the date of death with no rights to a prorated payment at settlement.
Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, if at any time during the term of this Award, the Unit holder directly or indirectly, either as an employee, employer, consultant, agent, principal, partner, shareholder, corporate officer, director or in any other capacity, engages or assists any third party in engaging in any business competitive with the Company; divulges any confidential or proprietary information of the Company to a third party who is not authorized by the Company to receive the confidential or proprietary information; or improperly uses any confidential or proprietary information of the Company, then the post-separation proration of Units and settlement rights set forth above shall cease immediately, and all outstanding vested but not settled and unvested portions of the Award shall be forfeited.
then the Board shall recover from the Section 16 executive officer such compensation (in whole or in part) as it deems appropriate under the circumstances.
In the event the Clawback Policy is deemed unenforceable with respect to the Units, or with respect to the proceeds received in connection with the settlement of the Units or subsequent sale of such issued Common Stock, then the award of Units subject to this Agreement shall be deemed unenforceable due to lack of adequate consideration.
2 | Performance Share Unit Award Agreement
 
unenforceability shall attach only to such provision and shall not in any manner affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other severable provision of this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be carried out as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were not contained herein.
3 | Performance Share Unit Award Agreement


