FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20091223161020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On December 21, 2009, Nordstrom Inc. (the "Company") entered into interest rate swap agreements with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Wachovia Bank, N.A. (collectively, the "Swap Transaction"). The agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. incorporates the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement. The agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc incorporates the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement. The Swap Transaction contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, and may be terminated prior to its expiration, including as a result of certain changes in the Company's current credit facilities. Any such early termination may require the Company to make additional payments to the counterparties.
The Swap Transaction utilizes a notional amount of $650 million, with an effective date of December 23, 2009 and a maturity date of January 15, 2018. Designed as a fair value hedge intended to manage the Company's interest rate risk, the Swap Transaction provides for the Company to receive a fixed rate of 6.25% per annum and to pay a variable interest rate based on 1-month USD LIBOR plus a margin of 2.9% (3.1% at December 21, 2009).
ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 23, 2009

Exhibit 10.1
Global Banking & Markets Bankside 3, 3rd Floor 90-100 Southwark Street London, SE1 0SW
          22 December 2009
Nordstrom Incorporated Seattle Attn: Rob Campbell
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Sir/Madam,
The purpose of this letter agreement (this "Confirmation") is to set out the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between The Royal Bank of Scotland plc ("Party A") and Nordstrom Incorporated ("Party B") on the Trade Date specified below (the "Transaction"). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2006 ISDA Definitions, as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between those definitions and provisions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern.
This Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to, the ISDA Master Agreement dated as of 30 October 2007 as amended and supplemented from time to time (the "Agreement"), between Party A and Party B. All provisions contained in the Agreement govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified below.
The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
Additional Representations
Each party represents to the other party on the Trade Date of this Transaction that (in the absence of a written agreement between the parties that expressly imposes affirmative obligations to the contrary for this Transaction):-
It is acting for its own account, and it has made its own independent decisions to enter into this Transaction and as to whether this Transaction is appropriate or proper for it based upon its own judgement and upon advice from such advisers as it has deemed necessary. It is not relying, and has not relied, on any communication (written or oral) of the other party as investment advice or as a recommendation to enter into this Transaction; it being understood that information and explanations related to the terms and conditions of this Transaction shall not be considered investment advice or a recommendation to enter into this Transaction. No communication (written or oral) received from the other party shall be deemed to be an assurance or guarantee as to the expected results of this Transaction.
(a)
Non-Reliance.
It is capable of assessing the merits of and understanding (on its own behalf or through independent professional advice), and understands and accepts, the terms, conditions and risks of this Transaction. It is also capable of assuming, and assumes, the risks of this Transaction.
(b)
Assessment and Understanding.
The other party is not acting as a fiduciary for or an adviser to it in respect of this Transaction.
(c)
Status of Parties.
Facsimile Signatures
The Parties acknowledge that this Confirmation has been executed by Party A by means of a computer-based system and that such execution shall have the same legal effect as if a signature had been manually written on such Confirmation and that each such Confirmation shall be deemed to have been signed by Party A for the purposes of any statute or rule of law that requires such Confirmation to be signed. The Parties acknowledge that in any legal
 
proceedings relating to this Confirmation, each party expressly waives any right to raise any defence or waiver of liability based upon the execution of this Confirmation by Party A by means of an electronically-produced signature or signatures.
Other
This Transaction has been entered into between Party B and Party A, a member of the London Stock Exchange, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The time of dealing will be confirmed by Party A upon written request.
This confirmation is in final form and supersedes all previous confirmations and other communications in respect of this Transaction and evidences a complete binding agreement between us as to the terms of the Transaction. No hard copy versions of this Confirmation will follow.
In the event that you disagree with any part of this Confirmation, please notify us via the contact details below, so that the discrepancy may be quickly resolved. Please note that our telephone conversations with you may be recorded.
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing a copy of this Confirmation and returning it to us.
 
Yours sincerely, Name: Michaela Tomkins Title: Authorised Signatory
For and on Behalf of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Confirmed as of the date first written
Name: Robert E. Campbell Title: Treasurer and Vice President-Investor Relations Nordstrom Incorporated Seattle
Counterparty Deal Reference:
                    

Exhibit 10.2
Dear Robert Sari:
This confirms the terms of the Transaction described below between Counterparty and Wachovia. The definitions and provisions contained in the 2006 ISDA Definitions, as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between those definitions and provisions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. Fixed Amounts and Floating Amounts for each applicable Payment Date hereunder will be calculated in accordance with the ISDA Definitions, and if any Fixed Amount and Floating Amount are due for the same Payment Date hereunder, then those amounts shall not be payable and instead the Fixed Rate Payer shall pay the positive difference, if any, between the Fixed Amount and the Floating Amount, and the Floating Rate Payer shall pay the positive difference, if any, between the Floating Amount and the Fixed Amount.
1. The terms of the particular Transaction to which the Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
2/3
2. The additional provisions of this Confirmation are as follows:
 
3/3
Documentation
This Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to, the Master Agreement between Wachovia and Counterparty dated as of November 06, 2009, as amended and supplemented from time to time (the "ISDA Master Agreement"). All provisions contained or incorporated by reference in the ISDA Master Agreement will govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified herein. Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing a copy of this Confirmation and returning it to us.


