FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20100812162649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 12, 2010, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and six months ended July 31, 2010, its financial position as of July 31, 2010, and its cash flows for the six months ended July 31, 2010. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 12, 2010, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and six months ended July 31, 2010, its financial position as of July 31, 2010, and its cash flows for the six months ended July 31, 2010. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 12, 2010
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported net earnings of $146 million, or $0.66 per diluted share, for the second quarter ended July 31, 2010. This represented an increase of 38.6 percent compared with net earnings of $105 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the same quarter last year.
SEATTLE, Wash. (August 12, 2010) 
Second quarter same-store sales increased 8.4 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2009. Net sales in the second quarter were $2.42 billion, an increase of 12.7 percent compared with net sales of $2.14 billion during the same period in fiscal 2009.
S Q S
ECOND
UARTER
UMMARY
Nordstrom's second quarter performance reflects a continuation of the positive sales trends from the first quarter, resulting in a net earnings increase of $41 million compared with the same period in fiscal 2009. The company's performance was highlighted by well-executed sales events during the quarter: the Half-Yearly Sale for Women and Kids, the Half-Yearly Sale for Men, and the Anniversary Sale.
 
 
 
 
 
E U
XPANSION
PDATE
During the second quarter of 2010, Nordstrom opened a Nordstrom Rack store at One Union Square South in Manhattan, New York and relocated a full-line store in Los Cerritos Center in Cerritos, California, which replaced a store built in 1981.
During the third quarter of 2010, Nordstrom plans to open the following stores:
 
During the third quarter of 2010, on October 28
th
, Nordstrom also plans to relocate a Nordstrom Rack store to Spokane Valley Plaza in Spokane Valley, Washington.
F Y 2010 O
ISCAL
EAR
UTLOOK
Based on second quarter performance, Nordstrom is maintaining its outlook for fiscal 2010 during which Nordstrom expects earnings per diluted share in the range of $2.50 to $2.65, while revising the outlook for credit card revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses and the effective tax rate.
The company's expectations for fiscal 2010 are as follows:
 
C C I
ONFERENCE
ALL
NFORMATION
The company's senior management will host a conference call to discuss second quarter results at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen, please dial 517-308-9140 (passcode: NORD). A telephone replay will be available beginning approximately one hour after the conclusion of the call by dialing 203-369-1764 (passcode: 6673) until the close of business on August 19, 2010. Interested parties may also listen to the live call over the Internet by visiting the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate Web site at http://investor.nordstrom.com. An archived webcast will be available in the webcasts section through November 10, 2010.
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 193 stores located in 28 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 114 full-line stores, 76 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through its online presence at www.nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial outlook for the fiscal year ending January 29, 2011, anticipated annual same-store sales rate, anticipated store openings and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including but not limited to: the impact of deteriorating economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, our ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends, our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation, effective inventory management, efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources, successful execution of our store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties, our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers, trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, availability and cost of credit, impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system reforms, changes in interest rates, disruptions in our supply chain, our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors and developers who may be experiencing economic difficulties, the geographic locations of our stores, our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively train and develop our future leaders, our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us, successful execution of our information technology strategy, successful execution of our multi-channel strategy, risks related to fluctuations in world currencies, public health concerns and the resulting impact on consumer spending patterns, supply chain, and employee health, weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns, the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns, and our ability to control costs. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010, and our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 1, 2010, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.
 
 
 
Retail
Our Retail business includes our multi-channel operations, which are composed of our full-line and online stores, and our Rack and Jeffrey stores; and also includes unallocated corporate center expenses. The following tables summarize the results of our Retail business for the quarter and six months ended July 31, 2010 compared with the quarter and six months ended August 1, 2009:
 
 
Credit
Our Credit business earns finance charges, interchange fees and late fee income through operation of the Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The following tables summarize the results of our Credit business for the quarter and six months ended July 31, 2010 compared with the quarter and six months ended August 1, 2009:
 
The following table illustrates the activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts for the six months ended July 31, 2010 and August 1, 2009:
 
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings, and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR as of July 31, 2010:
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of July 31, 2010, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.4 compared with 3.0 as of August 1, 2009.
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:
 
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest GAAP measure is debt to net earnings, which was 5.4 and 8.1 for the second quarter of 2010 and 2009. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:
 
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings, and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our free cash flow for the six months ended July 31, 2010 and August 1, 2009:
Free cash flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and, in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our cash levels are more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, free cash flow does have limitations:
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze free cash flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest GAAP measure is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $489 and $697 for the six months ended July 31, 2010 and August 1, 2009. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow:
 


