FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20110217160529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 17, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and year ended January 29, 2011, its financial position as of January 29, 2011, and its cash flows for the year ended January 29, 2011. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On February 17, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and year ended January 29, 2011, its financial position as of January 29, 2011, and its cash flows for the year ended January 29, 2011. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
On February 17, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing that it has entered into an agreement to acquire HauteLook. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 17, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported net earnings of $232 million, or $1.04 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter ended January 29, 2011. This represented an increase of 35 percent compared with net earnings of $172 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, for the same quarter last year.
SEATTLE, Wash. (February 17, 2011) 
Fourth quarter same-store sales increased 6.7 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2009. Net sales in the fourth quarter were $2.82 billion, an increase of 10.9 percent compared with net sales of $2.54 billion during the same period in fiscal 2009. Additionally, total net sales of $9.31 billion for fiscal 2010 were the highest in the company's history.
F Q S
OURTH
UARTER
UMMARY
Nordstrom's fourth quarter performance was a continuation of the positive trends experienced during 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
F Y R
ULL
EAR
ESULTS
For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, net earnings were up $172 million to $613 million, an increase of 39 percent compared with net earnings of $441 million for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010. Earnings per diluted share for the same periods were $2.75 and $2.01, respectively.
Full year same-store sales increased 8.1 percent compared with fiscal 2009. Net sales for the year were a record $9.31 billion, an increase of 12.7 percent compared with prior year net sales of $8.26 billion.
C I E U
APITAL
NVESTMENT
AND
XPANSION
PDATE
In fiscal 2011, the company's capital expenditures, net of property incentives, are expected to total between $400 and $440 million, compared with approximately $304 million in fiscal 2010.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, the company opened a 36,000-square-foot Nordstrom Rack store at Arrowhead Crossing in Peoria, Arizona. In 2011, Nordstrom has announced plans to open the following stores:
 
 
F Y 2011 O
ISCAL
EAR
UTLOOK
In fiscal 2011, Nordstrom plans to build from its strong financial framework to improve profitability, enhance free cash flow, increase return on invested capital and maintain a healthy balance sheet. For the 2011 fiscal year, Nordstrom expects same-store sales to increase 2 to 4 percent, which yields earnings per share in the range of $2.95 to $3.10 for the full year.
The company's expectations for fiscal 2011 are as follows:
 
In 2011, the company will report same-store sales for the total company, Nordstrom and Nordstrom Rack, which is consistent with our branding. "Nordstrom" (formerly referred to as "Multi-channel") includes Nordstrom full-line stores and Direct. The consolidation of full-line and Direct sales reflects the company's recognition that the customer does not differentiate between the two channels, and is consistent with how the company plans and manages the business.
C C I
ONFERENCE
ALL
NFORMATION
The company's senior management will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen, please dial 517-308-9140 (passcode: NORD). A telephone replay will be available beginning approximately one hour after the conclusion of the call by dialing 203-369-1322 (passcode: 6673) until the close of business on February 24, 2011. Interested parties may also listen to the live call over the Internet by visiting the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate Web site at http://investor.nordstrom.com. An archived webcast will be available in the webcasts section through May 18, 2011.
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 204 stores located in 28 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 115 Nordstrom full-line stores, 86 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through its online presence at www.nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial outlook for the fiscal year ending January 28, 2012, anticipated annual same-store sales rate, anticipated store openings, anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal year 2011 and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including but not limited to: the impact of deteriorating economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; effective inventory management; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; successful execution of our store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; availability and cost of credit; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system reforms; changes in interest rates; disruptions in our supply chain; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors and developers who may be experiencing economic difficulties; the geographic locations of our stores; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively train and develop our future leaders; our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us; successful execution of our information technology strategy; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy; risks related to fluctuations in world currencies; public health concerns and the resulting impact on consumer spending patterns, supply chain, and employee health; weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended January 30, 2010; our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended May 1, 2010, July 31, 2010 and October 30, 2010; and our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, to be filed with the SEC on or about March 18, 2011, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.
 
 
 
Retail
Our Retail business includes our multi-channel operations, which are composed of our Nordstrom full-line and online stores, and our Nordstrom Rack and Jeffrey stores; and also includes unallocated corporate center expenses. The following tables summarize the results of our Retail business for the quarter and year ended January 29, 2011 compared with the quarter and year ended January 30, 2010:
 
 
Credit
Our Credit business earns finance charges, interchange fees and late fee income through operation of the Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The following tables summarize the results of our Credit business for the quarter and year ended January 29, 2011 compared with the quarter and year ended January 30, 2010:
 
The following table illustrates the activity in our allowance for credit losses for the quarter and year ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010:
 
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) for the years ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010:
We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance. When analyzed in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared to return on assets (net earnings divided by average total assets), it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. We believe that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders' return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011, our ROIC increased to 13.6% compared with 12.1% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2010. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is return on assets, which increased to 8.6% from 7.1% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011, compared with the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2010. The following is a comparison of return on assets to ROIC:
 
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR as of January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010:
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of January 29, 2011, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.2 compared with 2.5 as of January 30, 2010.
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:
 
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 4.5 and 5.9 for 2010 and 2009. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:
 
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our free cash flow for the years ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010:
Free cash flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and, in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our cash levels are more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, free cash flow does have limitations:
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze free cash flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1,177 and $1,251 for the years ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow:
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 Nordstrom Inc. (NYSE:JWN) announced today it has entered into an agreement to acquire HauteLook, Inc., a leader in the online private sale marketplace. The Company said the acquisition will enable Nordstrom to participate in the fast-growing private sale marketplace and provide a platform to increase innovation and speed in the way it serves customers in all channels.
SEATTLE, February 17, 2011
The acquisition will build on Nordstrom's success in multi-channel retailing. Recently, these efforts have included implementing an enterprise-wide inventory management system, increasing its Direct business capabilities and integrating its online and store presence to provide customers with a seamless experience.
"We are excited to partner with HauteLook as we believe this acquisition further enhances our focus on serving customers online in new and compelling ways," said Blake Nordstrom, president, Nordstrom, Inc. "While our focus on providing a superior in-store shopping experience is our roots, continuing to find ways to use technology to serve customers the way they want to be served is critical. This partnership gives Nordstrom and HauteLook shared growth opportunities as online shopping evolves." Nordstrom added, "CEO Adam Bernhard and his team have built a fantastic business since launching HauteLook just over three years ago and we want them to continue to do what they do well. We think their highly talented team and culture of innovation will be a terrific complement to our business."
HauteLook CEO Adam Bernhard said, "By joining forces with Nordstrom, we are giving customers a fuller range of options for the way they shop today." Bernhard continued, "Our established membership base of well over four million shoppers is closely aligned with the Nordstrom customer. We feel fortunate to partner with a company that shares our commitment to providing customers with great brands and an exciting shopping experience."
Nordstrom will acquire HauteLook for $180 million in Nordstrom stock with a portion subject to ongoing vesting requirements. In addition, the transaction includes a three-year earn-out of up to $90 million in Nordstrom stock subject to company performance and vesting requirements for the existing management team. The overall transaction structure provides significant incentive and retention mechanisms for HauteLook senior management. HauteLook will operate as an independent, wholly-owned subsidiary, be
managed by its current leadership and the HauteLook brand and website will remain separate from Nordstrom.
The transaction is expected to be dilutive to Nordstrom in 2011 due to non-cash expenses related to the acquisition. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including customary regulatory and HauteLook shareholder approvals.
Guggenheim Securities, LLC is acting as exclusive financial advisor to Nordstrom and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and Lane Powell PC are acting as its counsel. JP Morgan Securities Inc. is acting as exclusive financial advisor to HauteLook and Gunderson Dettmer is acting as its counsel.
HauteLook is a leader in the online private sale channel, offering limited time sale events on the world's top fashion and lifestyle brands. Every day, HauteLook offers discounts of 50 to 75 percent off on great brands for women, men, kids, home, beauty, travel and local services. HauteLook launched in 2007 and is headquartered in Los Angeles. Membership is free and everyone is welcome. Visit to learn more.
www.HauteLook.com
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 204 stores located in 28 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 115 full-line stores, 86 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through its online presence at and through its catalogs. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
www.nordstrom.com
Certain statements in this news release may contain or may suggest "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management. Actual future results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors. Risks and uncertainties include the possibility that the transaction may not be timely completed, if at all; that, prior to the completion of the transaction, HauteLook's business may experience disruptions due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors making it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, customers or vendors; benefits to Nordstrom and its customers from the acquisition may not be realized to the extent anticipated; that the parties are unable to successfully implement the plans, strategies and objectives of management for post-acquisition operations; and other risks that are described in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Nordstrom undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.


