FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20111006083105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On October 6, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing its preliminary September 2011 sales. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 6, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported a 10.7 percent increase in same-store sales for the five-week period ended October 1, 2011 compared with the five-week period ended October 2, 2010. Preliminary total retail sales of $943 million for September 2011 increased 16.3 percent compared with total retail sales of $810 million for the same period in fiscal 2010.
SEATTLE, Wash. (October 6, 2011)
Quarter-to-date same-store sales increased 9.0 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2010. Preliminary quarter-to-date total retail sales of $1.63 billion increased 14.6 percent compared with total retail sales of $1.43 billion for the same period in fiscal 2010.
Year-to-date same-store sales increased 7.4 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2010. Preliminary year-to-date total retail sales of $6.58 billion increased 12.8 percent compared with total retail sales of $5.83 billion for the same period in fiscal 2010.
S R
ALES
ECORDING
To hear Nordstrom's pre-recorded September sales message, please dial (402) 220-6036. This recording will be available for one week.
S S R
EPTEMBER
ALES
ESULTS
(unaudited; $ in millions)
 
   (1)
Includes sales made through HauteLook, Nordstrom's online private sale subsidiary.
    (2)
Nordstrom, formerly referred to as "Multi-channel," includes Nordstrom full-line stores and Direct.
E U
XPANSION
PDATE
In September, Nordstrom opened two Nordstrom full-line stores at The Mall at Green Hills in Nashville, Tenn. and Saint Louis Galleria in St. Louis, Mo. and six Nordstrom Rack stores at West Covina Mall in West Covina, Calif.; South Bay Center in Redondo Beach, Calif.; Middlesex Commons in Burlington, Mass.; Rivers Edge in Indianapolis, Ind.; Cascade Plaza in Tigard, Ore.; and Orchard Corners in Lenexa, Kan.
Today, Nordstrom opens a Nordstrom Rack store at Market at Town Center in Sugar Land, Texas. Additionally, in October Nordstrom plans to open two Nordstrom Rack stores at The Corner in Tucson, Ariz. and at Westfield Plaza Bonita in National City, Calif.
F R D
UTURE
EPORTING
ATES
Nordstrom's planned financial release calendar for the next three months currently includes:
 
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 223 stores in 30 states, including 117 full-line stores, 102 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, one treasure&bond store and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Additionally, the Company operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain or may suggest "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated store openings and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to: the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors; our ability to respond to the business environment, fashion trends and consumer preferences, including changing expectations of service and experience in stores and online; effective inventory management; successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms; the impact of any systems failures and/or security breaches, including any security breaches that result in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or company information or our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations in the event of such an incident; our compliance with employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; changes in interest rates; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; availability and cost of credit; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; successful execution of our information technology strategy; weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards or other market disruptions, or the prospects of these events and the impact on consumer spending patterns; disruptions in our supply chain; the geographic locations of our stores; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, and our Forms 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended April 30, 2011 and July 30, 2011, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.


