FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20110505083718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing its preliminary April 2011 sales. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 5, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported a 7.6 percent increase in same-store sales for the four-week period ended April 30, 2011 compared with the four-week period ended May 1, 2010. Preliminary total retail sales of $726 million for April 2011 increased 14.2 percent compared with total retail sales of $636 million for the same period in fiscal 2010.
SEATTLE, Wash. (May 5, 2011)
First quarter same-store sales increased 6.5 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2010. Preliminary first quarter total retail sales of $2.23 billion increased 12.0 percent compared with total retail sales of $1.99 billion for the same period in fiscal 2010.
S R
ALES
ECORDING
To hear Nordstrom's pre-recorded April sales message, please dial (402) 220-6036. This recording will be available for one week.
A S R
PRIL
ALES
ESULTS
(unaudited; $ in millions)
 
(1
)
Includes sales made through HauteLook, Nordstrom's online private sale subsidiary.
(2
)
Nordstrom, formerly referred to as "Multi-channel," includes Nordstrom full-line stores and Direct.
E U
XPANSION
PDATE
In April, Nordstrom opened a Nordstrom full-line store at Christiana Mall in Newark, Del. and a Nordstrom Rack store at Belmar in Lakewood, Colo. In addition, Nordstrom relocated its Nordstrom Rack store at Flatiron Marketplace in Broomfield, Colo. to the Twenty Ninth Street shopping center in Boulder, Colo.
In May, Nordstrom plans to open three Nordstrom Rack stores at Towne Place at Garden State Plaza in Cherry Hill, N.J.; Friendship Center in Washington, D.C.; and Annapolis Harbour Center in Annapolis, Md.
F R D
UTURE
EPORTING
ATES
Nordstrom's planned financial release calendar for the next three months currently includes:
 
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 211 stores located in 29 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 116 Nordstrom full-line stores, 92 Nordstrom Rack stores, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom serves customers through its online presence at Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom also operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain or may suggest "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated store openings and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to: the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors; our ability to respond to the business environment, consumer preferences and fashion trends; effective inventory management; successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively train and develop our future leaders; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms; our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; changes in interest rates; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; availability and cost of credit; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; successful execution of our information technology strategy; disruptions in our supply chain; the geographic locations of our stores; public health concerns and the resulting impact on consumer spending patterns, supply chain and employee health; weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.


