FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20110512162558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 12, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended April 30, 2011, its financial position as of April 30, 2011, and its cash flows for the quarter ended April 30, 2011. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) On May 12, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing the reelection of all existing members of the Board of Directors and the addition of Michelle M. Ebanks, President of Essence Communications, Inc. as a new director on the Board. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Nordstrom, Inc. (the "Company") held on May 11, 2011, the shareholders voted on the election of each of the company's twelve nominees for directors for the term of one year, the approval of the amendment to the Nordstrom, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, an advisory resolution on executive compensation, and an advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation
.
The results of the voting were as follows:
 
 
Based on the Board of Directors' recommendation in the Proxy Statement and the voting results with respect to the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, the Company has adopted a policy to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation annually.
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 12, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended April 30, 2011, its financial position as of April 30, 2011, and its cash flows for the quarter ended April 30, 2011. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
On May 12, 2011, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized a $750 million share repurchase program. Nordstrom, Inc. also announced that its Board of Directors has approved a quarterly dividend. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 12, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported net earnings of $145 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, for the first quarter ended April 30, 2011. This represented an increase of 24 percent compared with net earnings of $116 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the same quarter last year. This year's first quarter results include charges of approximately $0.04 per diluted share related to the acquisition of HauteLook, a transaction that was completed during the quarter.
SEATTLE, Wash. (May 12, 2011) 
First quarter same-store sales increased 6.5 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2010.
F Q S
IRST
UARTER
UMMARY
Nordstrom's first quarter performance was at the high end of the company's internal plans, reflecting continuing strength in same-store sales across multiple merchandise categories.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E U
XPANSION
PDATE
During the first quarter of 2011, the company opened the following stores:
 
1
Nordstrom relocated its Nordstrom Rack store at Flatiron Marketplace in Broomfield, Colorado to the Twenty Ninth Street shopping center in Boulder, Colorado.
F Y 2011 O
ISCAL
EAR
UTLOOK
Nordstrom expects the impact of the purchase accounting charges related to the acquisition of HauteLook to be dilutive to fiscal 2011 earnings by approximately $0.20 per diluted share, including $0.04 per diluted share in the first quarter. Excluding primarily non-cash purchase accounting charges, HauteLook is expected to have breakeven earnings for fiscal year 2011. The anticipated dilutive effect of the HauteLook acquisition is summarized as follows:
 
1
Portions of these charges do not generate tax benefits and therefore have greater impact on earnings per share.
Nordstrom is updating its outlook for fiscal 2011 to factor in its first quarter performance and the impact of HauteLook. The company expects earnings per diluted share in the range of $2.80 to $2.95. This outlook is $0.15 lower than the previous range of $2.95 to $3.10 due to the estimated impact of the HauteLook acquisition, partially offset by the impact of first quarter share repurchases.
The company's expectations for fiscal 2011 are as follows:
 
1
HauteLook sales are not included in same-store sales.
2
Retail SG&A expenses include approximately $115 million of operating expenses and purchase accounting charges associated with the HauteLook acquisition.
C C I
ONFERENCE
ALL
NFORMATION
The company's senior management will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen, please dial 517-308-9140 (passcode: NORD). A telephone replay will be available beginning approximately one hour after the conclusion of the call by dialing 203-369-1860 (passcode: 6673) until the close of business on May 19, 2011. Interested parties may also listen to the live call over the Internet by visiting the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate Web site at . An archived webcast will be available in the webcasts section through August 10, 2011.
http://investor.nordstrom.com
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 212 stores located in 29 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 116 Nordstrom full-line stores, 93 Nordstrom Rack stores, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom serves customers through its online presence at Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom also operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial outlook for the fiscal year ending January 28, 2012, anticipated annual same-store sales rate, anticipated store openings, trends in company operations, the anticipated financial performance of HauteLook and the anticipated impact of the HauteLook acquisition on the company's performance. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including but not limited to: the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors; our ability to respond to the business environment, consumer preferences and fashion trends; effective inventory management; successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively train and develop our future leaders; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms; our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; changes in interest rates; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; availability and cost of credit; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; successful execution of our information technology strategy; disruptions in our supply chain; the geographic locations of our stores; public health concerns and the resulting impact on consumer spending patterns, supply chain and employee health; weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.
 
 
 
Retail
Our Retail business includes our Nordstrom full-line and online stores, our Nordstrom Rack stores, and our other retail channels including our online private sale subsidiary HauteLook and our Jeffrey stores. It also includes unallocated corporate center expenses. The following tables summarize the results of our Retail business for the quarter ended April 30, 2011 compared with the quarter ended May 1, 2010:
 
 
Credit
Our Credit business earns finance charges, interchange fees and late fee income through operation of the Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The following tables summarize the results of our Credit business for the quarter ended April 30, 2011 compared with the quarter ended May 1, 2010:
 
The following table illustrates the activity in our allowance for credit losses for the quarter ended April 30, 2011 and May 1, 2010:
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR as of April 30, 2011:
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of April 30, 2011, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.1 compared with 2.5 as of May 1, 2010.
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:
 
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 4.3 and 5.8 for the first quarter of 2011 and 2010. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:
 
1
The components of adjusted debt are as of April 30, 2011 and May 1, 2010, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended April 30, 2011 and May 1, 2010.
2
The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate adjusted debt is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Free Cash Flow for the quarters ended April 30, 2011 and May 1, 2010:
Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and, in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our ability to generate cash is more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Free Cash Flow does have limitations:
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Free Cash Flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $209 and $204 for the quarters ended April 30, 2011 and May 1, 2010. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and Free Cash Flow:
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
SEATTLE (May 11, 2011)  Seattle-based Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) announced today the reelection of all existing members of the Board of Directors and the addition of Michelle M. Ebanks as a new director on the Board.
The Nordstrom Board consists of 12 directors, nine of whom serve as independent directors. Each director will serve for a one-year term.
Ms. Ebanks joins the Board as President of Essence Communications, Inc., a leading media and communications company dedicated to African-American women, where she also serves as Group Publisher. She leads all operations for the company's diverse media and entertainment properties including ESSENCE Magazine and the Essence Music Festival. Ms. Ebanks will serve as a member of the Finance Committee and Compensation Committee on the Nordstrom Board.
"Michelle is a gifted leader and an authority in media and publishing," said Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Directors for Nordstrom Inc. "With her experience managing operations, finance, marketing and communications for some of the most respected names in media and communications, Michelle will be a terrific addition to our team. We have a strong, diverse Board with deep talent and expertise, and we look forward to continuing our efforts to better serve our customers and shareholders."
About Nordstrom:
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 212 stores located in 29 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 116 full-line stores, 93 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom serves customers through its online presence at Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom also operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.

Exhibit 99.3
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) announced today that its board of directors has authorized a repurchase program of up to $750 million of the Company's outstanding common stock, through February 2, 2013. The shares are expected to be acquired through open market transactions. The Company intends to fund the repurchase program from existing cash on hand. The actual number and timing of share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market conditions and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules. This program is in addition to the Company's existing repurchase program that was approved by the board in August 2010. The existing repurchase program has $235 million outstanding, as of April 30, 2011, and will expire on January 28, 2012.
SEATTLE, Wash.  (May 12, 2011) 
Nordstrom also announced today that its board of directors has approved a quarterly dividend of 23 cents per share payable on June 15, 2011, to shareholders of record on May 31, 2011.
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers, with 212 stores located in 29 states. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 116 Nordstrom full-line stores, 93` Nordstrom Rack stores, two Jeffrey boutiques and one clearance store. Nordstrom serves customers through its online presence at Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Nordstrom also operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain or may suggest "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the timing and amounts of share repurchases and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to: the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors; our ability to respond to the business environment, consumer preferences and fashion trends; effective inventory management; successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively train and develop our future leaders; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms; our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; changes in interest rates; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; availability and cost of credit; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; successful execution of our information technology strategy; disruptions in our supply chain; the geographic locations of our stores; public health concerns and the resulting impact on consumer spending patterns, supply chain and employee health; weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers' purchasing patterns; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.


