FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20120510161324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 10, 2012, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended April 28, 2012, its financial position as of April 28, 2012, and its cash flows for the quarter ended April 28, 2012. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Nordstrom, Inc. (the "Company") held on May 9, 2012, the shareholders voted on the election of each of the Company's eleven nominees for directors for the term of one year, the approval of the Amended and Restated Nordstrom, Inc. Executive Management Bonus Plan, the ratification of the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, and an advisory vote to approve executive compensation
.
The results of the voting were as follows:
 
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 10, 2012, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended April 28, 2012, its financial position as of April 28, 2012, and its cash flows for the quarter ended April 28, 2012. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
On May 10, 2012, Nordstrom, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has approved a quarterly dividend. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 10, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported net earnings of $149 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, for the first quarter ended April 28, 2012. This represented an increase of 2.9 percent compared with net earnings of $145 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, for the same quarter last year.
SEATTLE, Wash. (May 10, 2012) 
First quarter same-store sales increased 8.5 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2011. Net sales in the first quarter were $2.53 billion, an increase of 13.7 percent compared with net sales of $2.23 billion during the same period in fiscal 2011.
The Company affirms its outlook on full year earnings per share. Additional guidance on several key line items, including anticipated directional trends in the three remaining quarters, is provided below.
F Q S
IRST
UARTER
UMMARY
Nordstrom's first quarter performance was consistent with the Company's expectations, reflecting continued strength in same-store sales across multiple channels combined with planned significant investments in the business to improve the customer shopping experience and to enhance its platform for sustainable, profitable growth.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E U
XPANSION
PDATE
Nordstrom opened the following stores in the first quarter of 2012:
 
Nordstrom relocated its Downtown Seattle Nordstrom Rack store to the nearby Westlake Center.
1
F Y 2012 O
ISCAL
EAR
UTLOOK
Nordstrom affirms its earnings per share outlook for fiscal year 2012. In addition, the Company is providing its view of directional quarterly trends of several key line items:
 
 
 
 
The Company's expectations for fiscal 2012 are as follows:
 
C C I
ONFERENCE
ALL
NFORMATION
The Company's senior management will host a conference call to discuss first quarter 2012 results at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the live call online, visit the Investor Relations section of the Company's corporate website at . An archived webcast will be available in the webcasts section for one year. Interested parties may also dial 415-228-4850 (passcode: NORD). A telephone replay will be available beginning approximately one hour after the conclusion of the call by dialing 203-369-0788 (passcode: 6673) until the close of business on May 17, 2012.
http://investor.nordstrom.com
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 231 stores in 31 states, including 117 full-line stores, 110 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, one treasure&bond store and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Additionally, the Company operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial outlook for the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013 and its second quarter and second half, anticipated annual same-store sales rate, anticipated Return on Invested Capital and trends in our operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the Company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to: the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to respond to the business environment, fashion trends and consumer preferences, including changing expectations of service and experience in stores and online; effective inventory management; successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, including our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms; the impact of any systems failures, cybersecurity and/or security breaches, including any security breaches that result in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or company information or our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations in the event of such an incident; our compliance with employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us; availability and cost of credit; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; successful execution of our information technology strategy; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; changes in interest rates; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards or other market disruptions, or the prospects of these events and the impact on consumer spending patterns; disruptions in our supply chain; the geographic locations of our stores; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the Company, if any, or any share issuances by the Company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.
 
 
 
 
Retail
Our Retail business includes our Nordstrom branded full-line stores and website, our Nordstrom Rack stores, and our other retail channels including HauteLook, our Jeffrey stores and our treasure&bond store. It also includes unallocated corporate center expenses. The following table summarizes the results of our Retail business for the quarter ended April 28, 2012 compared with the quarter ended April 30, 2011:
 
1
Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding.
Credit
Our Credit business earns finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue through operation of the Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The following tables summarize the results of our Credit business for the quarter ended April 28, 2012 compared with the quarter ended April 30, 2011:
 
The following table illustrates the activity in our allowance for credit losses for the quarters ended April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011:
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) for the 12 fiscal months ended April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011:
We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance. When analyzed in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared with return on assets (net earnings divided by average total assets), it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. We believe that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders' return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended April 28, 2012, our ROIC decreased to 13.1% compared with 13.6% for the 12 fiscal months ended April 30, 2011. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is return on assets, which decreased to 8.5% from 8.8% for the 12 fiscal months ended April 28, 2012, compared with the 12 fiscal months ended April 30, 2011. The following is a comparison of return on assets to ROIC:
 
1
Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.
2
Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the 12 fiscal months ended April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011.
3
Based upon the trailing 12-month average, including cash and cash equivalents.
4
Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.
5
Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base, which is calculated as the trailing 12-months rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR as of April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011:
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.1.
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:
 
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 4.6 for the first quarter of 2012 and 4.3 for the first quarter of 2011. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:
 
1
The components of Adjusted Debt are as of April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011.
2
The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate Adjusted Debt is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Free Cash Flow for the quarters ended April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011:
Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our ability to generate cash is more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Free Cash Flow does have limitations:
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Free Cash Flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest GAAP measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $159 and $209 for the quarters ended April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and Free Cash Flow:
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) announced today that its board of directors has approved a quarterly dividend of 27 cents per share payable on June 15, 2012 to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 31, 2012.
SEATTLE, Wash.  (May 10, 2012) 
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 231 stores in 31 states, including 117 full-line stores, 110 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, one treasure&bond store and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Additionally, the Company operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.


