FILE:JWN/JWN-8K-20121108160957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 8, 2012, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended October 27, 2012, its financial position as of October 27, 2012, and its cash flows for the nine months ended October 27, 2012. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 8, 2012, Nordstrom, Inc. issued an earnings release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended October 27, 2012, its financial position as of October 27, 2012, and its cash flows for the nine months ended October 27, 2012. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 8, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nordstrom, Inc. (NYSE: JWN) today reported net earnings of $146 million for the third quarter ended October 27, 2012. This represented an increase of 15.0 percent compared with earnings of $127 million for the same quarter last year. Earnings per diluted share of $0.71 increased 20.3 percent from $0.59 per diluted share for the same quarter last year.
SEATTLE, Wash. (November 8, 2012) 
Third quarter same-store sales, which reflected a timing shift that moved a week of the Anniversary Sale event into August this year, increased 10.7 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2011. Combined second and third quarter same-store sales, which removes the impact of the Anniversary Sale shift, increased 7.3 percent compared with the same period in fiscal 2011. Net sales in the third quarter were $2.71 billion, an increase of 13.8 percent compared with net sales of $2.38 billion during the same period in fiscal 2011.
T Q S
HIRD
UARTER
UMMARY
Nordstrom's third quarter performance demonstrated strong top-line growth, consistent with the Company's initiatives and investments to improve the customer experience across all channels.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E U
XPANSION
PDATE
In September, Nordstrom announced plans to open its first stores in Canada with four full-line stores in Calgary, Ottawa, Vancouver and Toronto. Nordstrom also announced plans to open two full-line stores in Jacksonville, Fla., and The Woodlands near Houston, Texas in 2014.
Nordstrom opened the following stores in the third quarter of 2012:
 
Nordstrom relocated its Nordstrom Rack store at the Mall at the Source in Long Island, New York to the nearby Gallery at Westbury Plaza.
1
Nordstrom relocated its Nordstrom Rack store in White Plains, New York to another floor at the same location.
2
F Y 2012 O
ISCAL
EAR
UTLOOK
The Company's revised expectations for fiscal 2012 are as follows:
 
C C I
ONFERENCE
ALL
NFORMATION
The Company's senior management will host a conference call to discuss third quarter 2012 results at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the live call online and view the speakers' slides, visit the Investor Relations section of the Company's corporate website at . An archived webcast with the speakers' slides will be available in the webcasts section for one year. Interested parties may also dial 415-228-4850 (passcode: NORD). A telephone replay will be available beginning approximately one hour after the conclusion of the call by dialing 402-998-0566 (a passcode is not required) until the close of business on November 15th, 2012.
http://investor.nordstrom.com
A N
BOUT
ORDSTROM
Nordstrom, Inc. is one of the nation's leading fashion specialty retailers. Founded in 1901 as a shoe store in Seattle, today Nordstrom operates 240 stores in 31 states, including 117 full-line stores, 119 Nordstrom Racks, two Jeffrey boutiques, one treasure&bond store and one clearance store. Nordstrom also serves customers through Nordstrom.com and through its catalogs. Additionally, the Company operates in the online private sale marketplace through its subsidiary HauteLook. Nordstrom, Inc.'s common stock is publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol JWN.
Certain statements in this news release contain "forward-looking" information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial outlook for the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013, anticipated annual same-store sales rate, anticipated Return on Invested Capital, anticipated store openings and trends in our operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to: the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns; our ability to respond to the business environment, fashion trends and consumer preferences, including changing expectations of service and experience in stores and online; effective inventory management; successful execution of our growth strategy, including possible expansion into new markets, technological investments and acquisitions, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from such growth initiatives, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties; our ability to manage the change in our business/financial model as we increase our investment in e-commerce and our online business; our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders; successful execution of our multi-channel strategy, including planning, procurement and allocation capabilities; our compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers; impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms; the impact of any systems failures, cybersecurity and/or security breaches, including any security breaches that result in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or company information or our compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations in the event of such an incident; our compliance with employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us, including the outcome of claims and litigation and resolution of tax matters; compliance with debt covenants and availability and cost of credit; our ability to safeguard our brand and reputation; successful execution of our information technology strategy; our ability to maintain our relationships with vendors; trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs; changes in interest rates; efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources; weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards or other market disruptions, or the prospects of these events and the impact on consumer spending patterns; disruptions in our supply chain; the geographic locations of our stores; the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns; our ability to control costs; and the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters. Our SEC reports, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012, and our Forms 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended April 28, 2012 and July 28, 2012, contain other information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.
 
 
 
Retail
Our Retail business includes our Nordstrom branded full-line stores and website, our Nordstrom Rack stores, and our other retail channels including HauteLook, our Jeffrey stores and our treasure&bond store. It also includes unallocated corporate center expenses. The following tables summarize the results of our Retail business for the quarter and nine months ended October 27, 2012 compared with the quarter and nine months ended October 29, 2011:
 
1
Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding.
Credit
Our Credit business earns finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue through operation of the Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA credit cards. The following tables summarize the results of our Credit business for the quarter and nine months ended October 27, 2012 compared with the quarter and nine months ended October 29, 2011:
 
The following table illustrates the activity in our allowance for credit losses for the quarter and nine months ended October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011:
 
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) for the 12 fiscal months ended October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011:
We define ROIC as follows: Net Operating Profit after Taxes divided by Average Invested Capital.
For the 12 fiscal months ended October 27, 2012, our ROIC decreased to 12.9 percent compared with 13.7 percent for the 12 fiscal months ended October 29, 2011. Our ROIC decreased compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in our average invested capital, attributable to growth in the trailing 12-month average of cash and cash equivalents. We anticipate that ROIC for fiscal year 2012 will exceed ROIC for fiscal year 2011.
We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance. When analyzed in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared with return on assets (net earnings divided by average total assets), it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. We believe that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders' return over the long term. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is return on assets, which decreased to 8.2 percent from 8.9 percent for the 12 fiscal months ended October 27, 2012, compared with the 12 fiscal months ended October 29, 2011. The following is a comparison of return on assets to ROIC:
 
1
Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.
2
Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the 12 fiscal months ended October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011.
3
Based upon the trailing 12-month average.
4
Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.
5
Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base, which is calculated as the trailing 12-months rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the SEC. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (EBITDAR) as of October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011:
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of October 27, 2012, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.1 compared with 2.3 as of October 29, 2011.
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:
 
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 4.6 for the third quarter of 2012 and 4.9 for the third quarter of 2011. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:
 
1
The components of Adjusted Debt are as of October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011.
2
The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate Adjusted Debt is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.
We use various financial measures in our conference calls, investor meetings and other forums which may be considered non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G of the SEC. The following disclosure provides additional information regarding our Free Cash Flow for the nine months ended October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011:
Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our ability to generate cash is more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Free Cash Flow does have limitations:
 
 
To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Free Cash Flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest GAAP measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $507 and $628 for the nine months ended October 27, 2012 and October 29, 2011. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and Free Cash Flow:
 


