FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20031209155444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
Item 5.  Other Events
A.  Additional Proposed Decisions Regarding Proposed Settlement Agreement
          On December 4, 2003, three members of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) each issued an alternate proposed decision for consideration by the CPUC regarding the proposed settlement agreement (Settlement Agreement) announced in June 2003 by PG&E Corporation, its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), and the CPUC staff to jointly support a new plan of reorganization of the Utility (Settlement Plan).  The Settlement Plan has been submitted for confirmation to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (Bankruptcy Court) where the Utilitys proceeding commenced under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code is pending. 
          The alternate proposed decisions (referred to as the Wood Alternate, the Brown Alternate, and the Lynch Alternate, respectively) are in addition to the proposed decision issued by a CPUC administrative law judge (the ALJs proposed decision) and the two alternate proposed decisions that were issued by the President of the CPUC as alternates to the ALJs proposed decision (Peevey Alternate 1 and Peevey Alternate 2) on November 18, 2003.  (The ALJs proposed decision and the Peevey Alternates 1 and 2 were described in a Form 8-K filed by PG&E Corporation and the Utility with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 20, 2003.)  Comments by all parties on the Brown, Lynch and Wood Alternates are due by December 11, 2003.  To become effective, among other conditions, the Settlement Agreement must be entered into by the CPUC by December 31, 2003.  The CPUC is scheduled to consider all six proposed decisions at its regular meeting to be held on December 18, 2003.  The CPUC may accept, reject or modify any proposed or alternate decision.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility are unable to predict the outcome of this matter.
          Each of the Wood, Brown and Lynch Alternates would modify the key economic, financial and legal provisions of the Settlement Agreement.  Among other proposed modifications, each would:
Further, the Brown, Wood and Lynch Alternates would:
.  In addition to the changes discussed above, the Brown Alternate recommends that:
The Brown Alternate
            In addition to the changes discussed above, the Wood Alternate recommends that:
The Wood Alternate.
          .   The Lynch Alternate proposes an alternative plan to allow the Utility to recover its energy crisis undercollected costs by applying all excess revenues collected through current retail electric rates and maintaining current rates until the Utilitys net undercollection as defined by the Lynch Alternate is reduced to zero.  The Lynch Alternate would find that the Utilitys net undercollected costs as of December 31, 2003 would be $1.95 billion compared to the Utilitys estimate of $3.67 billion in undercollected costs and claims, from, among other items, disallowing bankruptcy related costs of $444 million and $96 million of gas hedging contracts, a different definition of headroom than used in the Settlement Agreement for the period 2001 through 2003 resulting in a $763 million additional credit, and elimination of the return and taxes on retained generation.  In addition, the Lynch Alternate proposes that the Utility would forego the payment of dividends and contribute approximately $460 million of its earnings towards paying down the undercollection while the current rates remain in effect during 2004 and the first quarter of 2005.   The Lynch Alternate projects that current rates would generate approximately $1.16 billion in headroom in 2004, allowing the Utility to recover its entire undercollection as defined by the Lynch Alternate, reinstate its lapsed debts, and emerge from Chapter 11 during the first quarter of 2005. 
The Lynch Alternate
B.  Credit Rating Agency Announcement
          On December 8, 2003, Moody's announced that it had placed the ratings of the Utility under review for possible upgrade.  Moodys stated: If the company's POR is adopted in its entirety as proposed and there does not appear to be significant risk of a successful challenge to key aspects of the plan, the potential exists for the ratings of the utility to be upgraded to investment grade.


