FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20030916144355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 5.     Pacific Gas and Electric Company 2003 General Rate Case Proceeding
          On September 15, 2003, PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), The Utility Reform Network, the California Public Utilities Commissions (CPUC) Office of Ratepayer Advocates (ORA), Aglet Consumer Alliance, the Modesto Irrigation District (MID), the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), and the Agricultural Energy Consumers Association filed a joint motion with the CPUC seeking approval of a settlement agreement these parties entered into in the Utilitys 2003 General Rate Case (GRC) proceeding.  (MID and NRDC joined in designated portions of the settlement agreement only.)  The proposed settlement agreement also has been filed with the CPUC.  The parties reached agreement on all disputed issues raised by the settling parties in this phase of the GRC, with the exception of the Utilitys request that the CPUC include the costs of a pension contribution in the Utilitys revenue requirement   The CPUC will resolve the pension contribution issue, as well as other issues raised by non-settling parties, based upon briefs to be submitted on September 17, 2003.  The Utilitys GRC revenue requirements are subject to adjustment to reflect the CPUCs decision regarding those issues not included in the settlement agreement. 
           The settlement agreement proposes that the Utility would receive a $236 million increase in its electric distribution revenue requirements and a $52 million increase in its gas distribution revenue requirements, over the current authorized amounts.  This compares with a $447 million increase in electric distribution revenue requirements and a $105 million increase in gas distribution revenue requirements requested by the Utility in its November 2002 application.  It is anticipated that there will be no increase in retail customer electric rates, as the increases provided under the proposed settlement would be offset by decreases in other areas.  The impact of the gas distribution settlement on a typical residential customers total gas bill would be 2.26 percent. 
           As previously disclosed, the CPUC already is considering a proposed settlement among the Utility, ORA, and other parties that reduced the Utilitys 2003 generation revenue requirement from its initial request for an increase of $149 million to $82 million.  (This generation revenue requirement excludes fuel expense, purchased power expense, the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) revenue requirements, and nuclear decommissioning revenue requirements.  Recovery of fuel and purchased power generation-related costs for 2003 was addressed in the proceeding regarding the Utility's Energy Resource Recovery Account.  DWR revenue requirements are addressed in separate proceedings.  Nuclear decommissioning costs were addressed in the Nuclear Decommissioning Costs Triennial Proceeding.)  If approved by the CPUC, the generation settlement would resolve all generation-specific issues, but would not resolve various tax methodology issues nor the amount of administrative and general (A&G) expenses and common plant to allocate to generation.  The new settlement would resolve these remaining issues, proposing that the Utility receive an increase of $38 million for electric generation operations, compared to the $149 million increase originally requested.
          The proposed settlement agreements, if approved by the CPUC, would result in total 2003 revenue requirements for the Utility of $2,493 million for electric distribution operations, $927 million for gas distribution operations, and $912 million for electric generation operations.  If the Utility prevails on the pension contribution issue, an additional revenue requirement of approximately $75 million would be allocated among electric distribution, gas distribution, and electric generation operations.
           The parties have agreed that the Utilitys next GRC will be to determine rates for test year 2007.
           Under the proposed settlement agreements for distribution and generation, attrition revenue increases for 2004, 2005, and 2006 would be authorized in the 2003 GRC.  The attrition increase for 2004 and 2005 would be calculated as the prior years revenue requirement multiplied by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).  For 2006, the 2005 revenue requirement would be multiplied by the CPI plus 1 percent to calculate the attrition increase.  For generation, the Utility also would receive additional revenues to cover the costs of refueling activities at its Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant.  For gas and electric distribution operations, the attrition increases would be subject to a minimum increase of 2.0 percent and a maximum increase of 3.0 percent for 2004, a minimum increase of 2.25 percent and a maximum increase of 3.25 percent for 2005, and a minimum increase of 3.0 percent and a maximum increase of 4.0 percent for 2006.  For electric generation operations, the attrition increases would be subject to a minimum increase of 1.5 percent and a maximum increase of 3.0 percent for 2004 and 2005, and a minimum increase of 2.5 percent and a maximum increase of 4.0 percent for 2006.  The parties note in the proposed settlement agreement that outcomes in future cost of capital proceedings, in which the CPUC determines the authorized rate of return that the Utility may earn on its electric and gas distribution and electric generation assets, could affect the Utilitys revenue requirement, including the attrition adjustments.
          The parties have agreed to assume for purposes of calculating the revenue requirement that the Utilitys total utility A&G expenses will be reduced to $585 million from the Utilitys original request of approximately $736 million.  The A&G assumed expenses would be increased if the Utility prevails on the pension fund contribution issue.  
          As previously disclosed, the ORA recommended against the Utilitys request for higher electric distribution depreciation rates, resulting in a $123 million difference between the Utilitys and the ORAs estimates for distribution depreciation expenses.  The settlement agreement provides that the parties will agree to the ORAs position on calculating electric, gas, and common plant depreciation.
           The parties also agreed to assume for purposes of calculating the revenue requirement that the Utilitys operating and maintenance (O&M) expenses would be $392 million and $119 million for electric and gas distribution, respectively.  Of the amount for electric distribution, $125 million is allocated to vegetation management expense.  The settlement provides that for purposes of calculating the revenue requirement  the Utilitys expenses for electric and gas distribution customer accounts and services will be approximately $201 million and $158 million, respectively.
           To determine the amount of distribution rate base on which the Utility would be entitled to earn an authorized rate of return, the parties agreed to use recorded 2002 plant as the starting point for test year 2003 and to allocate residual and common plant and reserve using the allocation method presented by the Utility.  The parties agreed that the net weighted average capital additions to rate base for 2003 would be $292 million for electric distribution and $89.2 million for gas distribution. 
           In addition, the settlement agreement provides that the Utility will implement two new balancing accounts--the Distribution Revenue Adjustment Mechanism and the Utility Generation Balancing Account, effective January 1, 2004, to ensure that the Utility recovers its authorized electric distribution and electric generation revenue requirements regardless of the level of sales.  The Core Fixed Cost Account already performs this function for gas distribution.
           After a settlement agreement is submitted to the CPUC for approval, there is a 45-day comment period, although the parties have requested that this period be shortened.  Depending on the comments submitted, a hearing may be held regarding the settlement.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility are unable to predict the outcome of this matter.
           The parties have requested that the CPUC issue a final decision approving the settlement agreement and resolve all remaining issues on or before February 5, 2004.  Pursuant to a prior CPUC decision, any revenue requirement change would be effective as of January 1, 2003.
Item 9.     Regulation FD Disclosure
          The following information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K regarding the reaffirmation of earnings guidance, is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K. 
           PG&E Corporation previously has provided guidance regarding PG&E Corporations earnings per share from operations for 2003 and 2004, as furnished in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 19, 2003.  PG&E Corporation reaffirms such previously issued guidance for 2003 and 2004.  These statements are forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.  Some of the factors that could cause results to differ materially include:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  September 16, 2003


