FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20031014212630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 5.     Other Events
          As previously disclosed, in January 2002, the California Attorney General (AG) filed a complaint in the San Francisco Superior Court against PG&E Corporation and its directors, as well as against the directors of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), based on allegations of unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business acts or practices in violation of California Business and Professions Code Section 17200 (Section 17200).  Among other allegations, the AG alleged that past transfers of money from the Utility to PG&E Corporation, and allegedly from PG&E Corporation to other affiliates of PG&E Corporation, violated various conditions established by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) in decisions approving the holding company formation.  The AG also challenged PG&E Corporations alleged failure to infuse the Utility with cash.  Similar complaints were filed in February 2002 against PG&E Corporation by the City and County of San Francisco in San Francisco Superior Court, and against PG&E Corporation, its directors, and the Utilitys directors by Cynthia Behr, a private plaintiff, in Santa Clara Superior Court.  The AG and the City and County of San Francisco requested restitution of assets allegedly wrongfully transferred to PG&E Corporation from the Utility, civil penalties, and injunctive relief, among other remedies. The three cases were later designated as complex proceedings and coordinated in the San Francisco Superior Court, where they are pending currently.
          The defendants removed all three lawsuits to the Bankruptcy Court.  The plaintiffs asked the Bankruptcy Court to send the lawsuits back to the state  courts.  In June 2002, among other actions, the Bankruptcy Court sent back to the state courts only the Section 17200 portions of the complaints that were focused on the allegedly improper payments from the Utility to PG&E Corporation and PG&E Corporations alleged failure to infuse monies into the Utility as needed. 
          On October 8, 2003, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (District Court) reversed, in part, the Bankruptcy Courts June 2002 decision and ordered the plaintiffs restitution claims sent back to the Bankruptcy Court.  The District Court found that these claims, estimated by the plaintiffs at approximately $5 billion, are the property of the Utilitys estate and are therefore properly within the Bankruptcy Courts jurisdiction.  Under the new plan of reorganization proposed by the Utility, PG&E Corporation, and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors dated July 31, 2003 (Settlement Plan) and submitted to the Bankruptcy Court for confirmation, the Utility would release these claims.  The District Court also affirmed, in part, the Bankruptcy Courts June 2002 decision and found that the plaintiffs civil penalty and injunctive relief claims under Section 17200 could be resolved in San Francisco  Superior Court. 
          Under Section 17200, the AG and the City and County of San Francisco are entitled to seek civil penalties of $2,500 against each defendant for each violation of Section 17200.  The AGs complaint asserted that the total civil penalties would be not less than $500 million.  PG&E Corporation believes that the applicable calculation methodology for civil penalties, if any violations were found, would not result in a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. 
          A status conference in San Francisco Superior Court for all three cases has been scheduled for October 21, 2003.  No proceedings have yet been scheduled in Bankruptcy Court for the restitution claims.
Item 9.       Regulation FD Disclosure
          The information reported in this section of this Current Report on Form 8-K, included Exhibit 1, is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K. 
          Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 1 are revised financial projections relating to the Settlement Plan.  Financial projections relating to the Settlement Plan were furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on a Form 8-K on July 8, 2003.  The financial projections furnished to the SEC on July 8, 2003 were included as Exhibit C to the Disclosure Statement dated July 31, 2003 and mailed to all persons entitled to vote on the Settlement Plan on August 15, 2003. 
          Among other revisions, the financial projections have been revised to reflect the following significant events:
          Projected net income under the July 2003 projections and the revised projections is about equal for the first two years (2004 and 2005), increasing to a positive difference under the revised projections of about $13 million in 2008 as a result of the lower depreciation rates agreed to as part of the GRC settlement.  Likewise, the projected amount of cash flow available for dividends and share repurchases beginning in 2005 is projected to be between $30 million to $50 million less per year in the revised projections than in the July 2003 projections, accumulating to about $150 million over the 2005-2008 forecast period.
          PG&E Corporation and the Utility believe that the forecast credit ratios based upon the updated projections are not materially different from the ratios contained in the projections furnished to the SEC in July 2003.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements
          The projected financial information attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and the various assumptions underlying such projections constitute forward-looking statements which are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward looking statements and financial projections.  Some of the factors that could cause results to differ materially include:
          In particular, the financial projections, attached as Exhibit 1, have been prepared based upon certain assumptions that PG&E Corporation and the Utility believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, taking into account the purpose for which they were prepared.  However, the financial projections were not prepared with a view toward compliance with the published guidelines of the SEC or the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants regarding projections or forecasts.  In addition, the financial projections have not been examined or compiled by the independent accountants of the Utility or PG&E Corporation.  Neither the Utility nor PG&E Corporation makes any representation as to the accuracy of the projections or the ability of the reorganized Utility to achieve the projected results.  Many of the assumptions on which the projections are based are subject to significant uncertainties.  Some assumptions may not materialize and unanticipated events and circumstances may affect the actual financial results.  Therefore, the actual results achieved may vary from the projected results and the variations may be material.

Exhibit 1
Assumptions  Nature and Limitations of Projections
The financial projections included in the Disclosure Statement depend upon the successful implementation of the Plan of Reorganization for the Reorganized Debtor, and the validity of the other assumptions contained therein.  These projections reflect numerous assumptions, including confirmation and consummation of the Plan in accordance with its terms, continued access by the Reorganized Debtor to capital markets, the continued availability of the working capital facilities contemplated by the Disclosure Statement, the anticipated future performance of the Reorganized Debtor, certain assumptions with respect to its competitors, general business and economic conditions and other matters, many of which are beyond the control of the Reorganized Debtor.  In addition, the risk factors outlined in the Disclosure Statement and unanticipated events and circumstances occurring subsequent to the preparation of the projections may affect the actual financial results of the Reorganized Debtor.  Although the Proponents believe that the projections are reasonably attainable, variations between the actual financial results and those projected may occur and may be material.
Significant Assumptions Regarding Plan Consummation
The Debtor is assuming that the Plan shall be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court for the purposes of these projections.  The assumption of Plan confirmation incorporates the following significant assumptions:
Significant Assumptions Regarding the Pre-Consummation Projections
Cash Balance At December 31, 2003
The Debtor assumes that it will have cash available to reimburse creditors at year-end 2003 of approximately $2.5 billion.  This amount is based on the current cash balances, and taking into account various cash impacts through 2003.  These impacts include reductions for restricted funds, outstanding checks and all operating receipts and disbursements, including a one-time bill credit to ratepayers of a California Department of Water Resources rate reduction.  Capital expenditures included in the forecast total $1.7 billion in 2003.
Earnings For 2003
Earnings during 2003 reflect both earnings from ongoing utility operations, as well as non-recurring items (including those described as items affecting comparability) in the Reorganized Debtors public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission).  Starting common equity balances in 2004 incorporate these earnings.
Significant Assumptions Regarding Effective Date Funding of Claims
As described in detail in the Plan and Disclosure Statement, claims are funded with a combination of cash on hand, reinstatement of certain financial claims such as preferred stock interests and pollution control bonds in classes 4a, 4b, and 4d, and the cash proceeds of new money notes.  The Reorganized Debtor may also draw on a portion of its proposed bank facilities to fund claims, depending upon its seasonal working capital requirements at the actual effective date.
Claims in Classes 6 and 7 have not been reduced for the impact of any refunds ordered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or settlements of disputed claims.   Because the financial projections assume full payment of Class 6 and 7 claims, the levels of debt at the effective date, the size of the Settlement Regulatory Asset, and customer revenues associated with the Settlement Regulatory Asset have not been adjusted for any potential reductions in these claims.
Structure of the Reorganized Debtor
Income Statement
Total Operating Revenues
Revenues include customer payments for electric and gas distribution services, electric transmission and gas transmission and storage services, electric and gas energy procurement purchases (excluding California Department of Water Resources sources of electricity), electric power generated by the Reorganized Debtors retained electric generating facilities, public purpose programs, recovery of the proposed Settlement Regulatory Asset with associated taxes and return, and Rate Reduction Bonds.
Operating Expenses
Interest Expense
Interest Expense (excluding Rate Reduction Bonds) consists mainly of interest on long-term debt.  Interest expense is based on interest rates of approximately 6.5% for new debt and 4.5% for reinstated Pollution Control bonds.  Borrowing costs are based on the all-in, effective costs to the Reorganized Debtor.  Corresponding debt balances are net of issuance expenses.  Accordingly, the par value of debt issued will be approximately 1.0 percent higher than the net balances shown.   Rate Reduction Bond interest and the amortization of the net gain or loss on reacquired debt are shown separately.
Other Income
Other Income is comprised of below-the-line income and expenses, including AFUDC, operating costs not recoverable in retail rates, and non-recurring items.
Income Taxes
Income Taxes are calculated using a 35% federal tax rate and an 8.84% state tax rate, with a combined tax rate of 40.746%.  The book income tax provision reflects existing regulatory practices for recognizing the timing of income tax expenses.
Dividends
Preferred Dividend arrearages are paid on the Effective Date.  Preferred dividends are based on an embedded cost of preferred stock of approximately 6.5%.
Balance Sheet
Assets
Generally, balances of assets and liabilities are either held constant at their starting level, or are taken as a percentage of a revenue or expense.  Plant in service, construction work in progress, common stock and long-term debt are dynamic balances, changing as a function of cash from operations and capital expenditures.  Net plant includes the value of the Reorganized Debtors retained generation facilities under cost of service regulation per Advice Letter 2233-E implementing D.02-04-016, as per the Settlement, Plan and Confirmation Order and as expected to be further modified through normal depreciation, additions, and retirements.  Cash balances are held constant at an initial level for restricted funds and check float.
Capitalization
Short-term debt is used to fund seasonal working capital requirements and natural gas storage inventory.  Any subsequent surplus cash is used for debt retirement or distribution to common shareholders in amounts necessary to achieve and then maintain the target capital structure.  For the Reorganized Debtor, the targeted common equity to total long-term capitalization ratio is 52% (excluding rate reduction bonds and short-term debt used to finance seasonal working capital requirements or natural gas storage inventory).
Cash Flow Statement


