FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20030116172919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
As previously disclosed, PG&E Corporations subsidiary, PG&E National Energy Group Inc. (PG&E NEG), is currently in default under various debt agreements and guaranteed equity commitments totaling approximately $2.9 billion.  PG&E NEG continues to negotiate with its lenders regarding certain of these commitments as described below.
Further, consistent with its previously announced strategy to dispose of certain merchant assets, including its New England generating assets, through sale, abandonment or other transfer, PG&E NEG has agreed to sell, or has sold, other assets as described below.  PG&E NEG and its subsidiaries are continuing their efforts to abandon, sell, or transfer additional assets, and are reducing their energy trading operations in an ongoing effort to raise cash and reduce debt, whether through negotiation with lenders or otherwise.  Such asset transfers, sales, or abandonments will cause substantial charges to earnings in 2002 and 2003.   As previously reported, if the lenders exercise their default remedies or if the financial commitments are not restructured, PG&E NEG and certain of its subsidiaries may be compelled to seek protection under or be forced into a proceeding under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 
Funding of GenHoldings Generating Projects
As previously disclosed, in October 2002, GenHoldings I, LLC (GenHoldings), a subsidiary of PG&E NEG, defaulted under its credit agreement by failing to make equity contributions to fund construction draws for the Athens, Harquahala, and Covert generating projects.   Through December 31, 2002, GenHoldings has contributed $833 million of equity to the projects.  Although PG&E NEG has guaranteed GenHoldings obligation to make equity contributions, PG&E NEG has notified the GenHoldings lenders that it will not make further equity contributions on behalf of GenHoldings. In November and December 2002, the lenders executed waivers and amendments to the credit agreement under which they agreed to continue to waive until March 31, 2003, the default caused by GenHoldings failure to make equity contributions.  In addition, certain of these lenders agreed to increase their loan commitments to an amount sufficient to provide (i) the funds necessary to complete construction of the Athens, Covert and Harquahala facilities; and (ii) additional working capital facilities to enable each project, including Millennium, to timely pay for its fuel requirements and to provide its own collateral to support natural gas pipeline capacity reservations and independent transmission system operator requirements.  The November and December 2002 increased loan commitments are senior to the original liens and with each other but are senior to amounts loaned through and including the October credit extension. As a result, on November 25, 2002, the funding lenders paid GenHoldings then pending draw request of approximately $75 million and on December 23, 2002, the funding lenders paid GenHoldings then pending draw request of approximately $44 million.
pari passu
In connection with the lenders waiver of various defaults and additional funding commitments, PG&E NEG has agreed to cooperate with any reasonable proposal by the lenders regarding disposition of the equity in or assets of any or all of the PG&E NEG subsidiaries holding the Athens, Covert, Harquahala and Millenium projects.  The amended credit agreement provides that an event of default will occur if the Athens, Covert, Harquahala and Millennium facilities are not transferred to the lenders or their designees on or before March 31, 2003.  Such a default would trigger lender remedies, including the right to foreclose on the projects. 
Under the waiver, PG&E NEG has re-affirmed its guarantee of GenHoldings obligation to make equity contributions to these projects of approximately $355 million.  Neither PG&E NEG nor GenHoldings currently expects to have sufficient funds to make this payment. The requirement to pay $355 million will remain an obligation of PG&E NEG that would survive the transfer of the projects.
 
Further, as a result of GenHoldings failure to make required payments under the interest rate hedge contracts entered into by GenHoldings, the counterparties to such interest rate hedge contracts terminated the contracts during December 2002.  Settlement amounts due by GenHoldings in connection with such terminated contracts are, in the aggregate, approximately $49.8 million.  This amount was included in the previously reported $192 million loss for interest rate hedges included in Other Comprehensive Income, net of taxes, on the balance sheet at September 30, 2002.  This amount will be transferred from Other Comprehensive Income and reflected as a charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002.
On December 13, 2002, The Shaw Group, Inc. (Shaw) filed complaints in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against PG&E NEG and certain affiliates including the owners of the Covert and Harquahala projects.  Shaw is the construction contractor for these projects.  In its complaints, Shaw alleges that it has not received adequate assurances of payment from PG&E NEG or its affiliates, that PG&E NEGs pre-financing payment guarantees for each of the Covert and Harquahala projects have been reestablished, and that PG&E NEG has repudiated its obligations under various guarantees.  Shaw seeks declaratory relief that it is relieved from its obligations under the construction contracts for Covert and Harquahala and certain other agreements and that these contracts have been repudiated by PG&E NEG and its affiliates entitling Shaw to damages.  GenHoldings believes that Shaw is not entitled to adequate assurances as a matter of law and that, in any case, the credit arrangements which became effective on December 23, 2002 by which the lenders agreed to provide funds to complete construction, are sufficient to provide Shaw adequate assurances.  PG&E NEG believes Shaws other claims are entirely without merit and intends to vigorously defend all claims and pursue any counterclaims it or its affiliates may have against Shaw.  PG&E NEG cannot predict the outcome of this matter. 
Funding of Lake Road and La Paloma Generating Projects
As of December 4, 2002, PG&E NEG and certain subsidiaries entered into various agreements with the respective lenders for each of the Lake Road and La Paloma generating projects providing for (i) funding of construction costs required to complete the La Paloma facility; and (ii) additional working capital facilities to enable each subsidiary to timely pay for its fuel requirements and to provide its own collateral to support natural gas pipeline capacity reservations and independent transmission system operator requirements, as well as for general working capital purposes.  Lenders extending new credit under these agreements have received liens on the projects that are senior to the existing lenders liens.  These agreements provide, among other things, that the failure to transfer right, title and interest in, to and under the Lake Road and La Paloma projects to the respective lenders by June 9, 2003 will constitute a default under the agreements.  The failure to transfer the facilities would entitle the lenders to accelerate the new indebtedness and exercise other remedies.
In consideration of the lenders waiver of certain defaults, PG&E NEG had previously agreed to cooperate, and cause its subsidiaries to cooperate, with any reasonable proposal regarding disposition of the ownership interests in and/or assets of the La Paloma project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the lenders in their sole discretion.
The La Paloma and Lake Road projects have been financed entirely with debt.  PG&E NEG has guaranteed the repayment of a portion of the project subsidiary debt in the approximate aggregate amounts of $374.5 million for La Paloma and $230 million for Lake Road, which amounts represent the subsidiaries equity contribution in the projects.  The lenders have accelerated the guaranteed portion of the debt and made a payment demand under the PG&E NEG guarantee.  Neither the PG&E NEG subsidiaries nor PG&E NEG have sufficient funds to make these payments.  The requirement to make the payments will remain an obligation of PG&E NEG that would survive the transfer of the projects.
Further, as a result of the La Paloma and Lake Road subsidiaries failure to make required payments under the interest rate hedge contracts entered into by them, the counterparties to such interest rate hedge contracts have terminated the contracts.   Settlement amounts due from the Lake Road and La Paloma project subsidiaries in connection with such terminated contracts are, in the aggregate, approximately $61 million and $78 million, respectively.  These amounts were included in the previously reported $192 million loss for interest rate hedges included in Other Comprehensive Income, net of taxes, on the balance sheet at September 30, 2002.  These amounts will be transferred from Other Comprehensive Income and reflected as a charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002.
Termination of Turbine Purchase Agreements   
As previously disclosed, PG&E NEG had accrued approximately $53 million (pre-tax) at October 31, 2002, for future termination payments required under certain turbine and related equipment contracts. 
On November 21, 2002, Mitsubishi Power Systems, Inc. (MPS) notified PG&E NEGs subsidiary that it was terminating the turbine purchase agreement for failure to pay past due amounts and failure to cash-collateralize PG&E NEGs guarantee.  While PG&E NEGs subsidiary has disputed that such amounts were due before January and July 2003, and has asserted that a breach under PG&E NEGs guarantee did not give rise to a breach of the turbine purchase agreement, neither PG&E NEG nor PG&E NEGs subsidiary intends to contest the termination.  PG&E NEGs subsidiary does, however, maintain that the remaining $14 million payable under the turbine purchase agreement is not due until January 2003 when $4.5 million is due and July 2003 when the remaining $9.5 million is due and that MPS has no right to accelerate these payments. (PG&E NEG did not make the January payment pending negotiations with MPS.)  PG&E NEG does not know if MPS will take further steps in an effort to accelerate these payments. The $14 million remaining payment has been included in the $53 million accrual at October 31, 2002.
Also, on November 22, 2002, PG&E NEGs subsidiaries reached agreement with (i) General Electric Company (GEC) to terminate its master turbine purchase agreement and its turbine purchase agreement for the Mantua Creek project and (ii) General Electric International, Inc. (GEII) to terminate its master long term service agreement and its long term service agreement for the Mantua Creek project.  In exchange for a partial payment of the termination fees for the master turbine purchase agreement and the master long term service agreements in the amount of $11.5 million (which payments were made on November 26, 2002), GEC and GEII have agreed to reduce the balance of these fees from approximately $34 million to approximately $22 million and to defer payment of the reduced fees to December 31, 2004.  The $22 million remaining payment has been included in the $53 million accrual at October 31, 2002.
The cost to terminate the turbine purchase agreement with GEC for the Mantua Creek project was prepaid.  PG&E NEGs subsidiary that owns the Mantua Creek project prepaid $79 million and received a $31 million refund upon termination. The remaining $48 million will be reflected as a loss in the fourth quarter of 2002.
On December 6, 2002, the lenders under the turbine credit agreement provided notice that the termination of the GEC master turbine purchase agreement constitutes an additional default under the turbine credit agreement.  As previously disclosed, PG&E NEGs November 14, 2002 default under its credit agreement caused a cross-default under the turbine credit agreement. Upon a default the lenders are entitled to accelerate the indebtedness outstanding under the turbine credit agreement (approximately $205 million at December 31, 2002).  PG&E NEG has guaranteed its subsidiarys obligations under the turbine credit agreement.
In 2001, PG&E NEGs subsidiary that owns the Mantua Creek project contracted with Hitachi America, Ltd. (HAL) for steam turbine generators and heat recovery steam generators for the Mantua Creek project.  On December 24, 2002, these agreements were terminated.  Mantua Creek had previously paid HAL approximately $55 million under these contracts. The remaining costs to terminate these contracts relating to the Mantua Creek project are approximately $11 million and will be reflected as a loss in the fourth quarter of 2002.
Tolling Agreements
As previously reported, pg&e NEGs subsidiary, PG&E Energy Trading - Power, LP (PG&E ET) has provided notices of default with respect to the performance of the following parties under tolling agreements entered into with PG&E ET: Liberty Electric Power, L.P. (Liberty), Calpine Energy Services, L.P. (Calpine), Southaven Power, LLC (Southaven) and Caledonia Generating, LLC (Caledonia).  In addition, PG&E ET has provided notice to Calpine that PG&E ET is terminating the tolling agreement with that party.  Each of Calpine, Southaven and Caledonia have advised pg&e ET that they disagree with pg&e ETs claim that they are in default under these agreements.  PG&E ET has agreed to forbear from taking further action with respect to Liberty.
As previously disclosed, PG&E ETs obligations under the tolling agreement with Liberty are guaranteed primarily by PG&E NEG and secondarily by PG&E GTN for an aggregate amount of up to $150 million.  PG&E NEG also has guaranteed PG&E ETs obligations under the tolling agreements with Southaven and Caledonia for up to $176 million and $250 million, respectively.  Upon termination of the tolling agreements, the terminating party is entitled to a termination payment based on a formula that takes into account a number of factors, including market conditions such as the price of power and the price of fuel. To the extent PG&E ET fails to pay a termination payment for which PG&E ET is determined to be liable, the counterparty may seek to require PG&E NEG to pay as guarantor up to the maximum amount of the guarantee.  PG&E NEG is unable to predict whether counterparties will seek to terminate their tolling agreements.  PG&E NEG does not currently expect to be able to pay the full amount of termination payments if any become due.  
Attala Default
As previously reported, PG&E NEG has provided a $300 million guarantee to support the payment obligations of its indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Attala Energy Company, LLC (Energy LLC), under a tolling agreement entered into with Attala Generating Company, LLC (Generating LLC), another indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PG&E NEG.  On May 7, 2002, Generating LLC completed a $340 million sale and leaseback transaction whereby it sold and leased back its approximately 526 megawatt (MW) generation facility located in Mississippi to a third party special purpose entity.  The payments under the 25-year term tolling agreement provide Generating LLC, as lessee, with sufficient cash flowsduring the term of the tolling agreement to pay rent under the 37-year lease and certain other operating costs.  Energy LLC is unable to make the payments under the tolling agreement and failed to make the required payment due on November 22, 2002 to Generating LLC.  Failure to cure this payment default constituted an event of default under the tolling agreement on November 27, 2002.  Further, PG&E NEG's failure to pay maturing principal under its revolving credit facilities on November 14, 2002 became an event of default under the tolling agreement upon Energy LLCs failure to replace the PG&E NEG guarantee by December 16, 2002.  On December 31, 2002, the tolling agreement terminated following notice of termination given by Generating LLC.  The parties are currently calculating the termination payment, if any, that Energy LLC would owe Generating LLC.  Despite the termination of the tolling agreement, Energy LLC remains obligated to provide an acceptable guarantee or collateral to secure its obligations under the tolling agreement including the payment of any termination payment that may be determined to be due.  
No default has occurred under the lease and Generating LLC timely made the $22.2 million lease payment due January 2, 2003.  However, the lease provides that failure to replace the tolling agreement with a satisfactory replacement tolling agreement within 180 days after the first default under the tolling agreement (which occurred on November 27, 2002) will constitute an event of default under the lease.  After the termination payment has been determined in accordance with the tolling agreement and if Energy LLC or PG&E NEG both fail, or have failed, to provide security as required by the tolling agreement, the time period would not extend beyond the 60th day after such failure to provide security.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the lease, the lessor would be entitled to exercise various remedies, including termination of the lease and foreclosure of the assets securing the lease.    
Transfer of North Baja Pipeline
On December 11, 2002, PG&E Gas Transmission, Northwest Corporation (PG&E GTN) completed the purchase from PG&E Gas Transmission Holdings Corporation of 100 percent of the equity of North Baja Pipeline, LLC (NBP) effective as of the close of business on October 31, 2002.  NBP owns an interstate gas pipeline running from Arizona to the U.S.-Mexico border in California.  PG&E GTN paid $63 million in cash and has acquired the NBP membership interest subject to NBP's existing indebtedness and remaining construction commitments of $92 million, which amount includes $75 million previously borrowed from PG&E GTN.  The transaction was funded through PG&E GTNs available cash on hand and $58 million borrowed under PG&E GTN's existing credit facility.
Sale of Mountain View Wind Facility
On December 18, 2002, a subsidiary of PG&E NEG entered into an agreement to sell its 66.6 MW wind-powered generation facility near Palm Springs, California, to Centennial Power, Inc. for $102.5 million.  Among other conditions, the sale was subject to the requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act which requires parties to certain acquisitions to notify the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice and to observe a waiting period to allow the antitrust agencies to determine whether to conduct an investigation.  On December 30, 2002, the Department of Justice issued a notice approving early termination of the waiting period.  The sale remains subject to receipt of regulatory approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and other conditions contained in the agreement.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information, and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 -  Fourth Waiver and Amendment dated as of December 23, 2002, among GenHoldings I, LLC, various lenders identified as the GenHoldings Lenders, the Administrative Agent, and acknowledged and agreed to by PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.
Exhibit 99.2  Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002 among La Paloma Generating Company, LLC, La Paloma Generating Trust, Ltd., and various other parties, including PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.
Exhibit 99.3  Priority Credit and Reimbursement Agreement among La Paloma Generating Company, LLC, La Paloma Generating Trust Ltd., Wilmington Trust Company, in its individual capacity and as Trustee, Citibank, N.A., as the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Several Priority Lenders from time to time parties hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and
Citibank, N.A., as priority agent, dated as of December 4, 2002
Exhibit 99.4  Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002 among Lake Road Generating Company, LLC, Lake Road Generating Trust, Ltd., and various other parties, including PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.
Exhibit 99.5  Priority Credit and Reimbursement Agreement among Lake Road Generating Company, LLC, Lake Road Trust Ltd., Wilmington Trust Company, in its individual capacity and as Trustee, Citibank, N.A., as the Priority L/C Issuer, the Several Priority Lenders from time to time parties hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Citibank, N.A., as priority agent, dated as of December 4, 2002
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 16, 2003
Exhibit No.                   Description of Document
99.1                 Fourth Waiver and Amendment dated as of December 23, 2002, among GenHoldings I, LLC, various lenders identified as the GenHoldings Lenders, the Administrative Agent, and acknowledged and agreed to by PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.
99.2                 Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002 among La Paloma Generating Company, LLC, La Paloma Generating Trust, Ltd., and various other parties, including PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.
99.3                 Priority Credit and Reimbursement Agreement among La Paloma Generating Company, LLC, La Paloma Generating Trust Ltd., Wilmington Trust Company, in its individual capacity and as Trustee, Citibank, N.A., as the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Several Priority Lenders from time to time parties hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Citibank, N.A., as priority agent, dated as of December 4, 2002
99.4                 Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002 among Lake Road Generating Company, LLC, Lake Road Generating Trust, Ltd., and various other parties, including PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.
99.5                 Priority Credit and Reimbursement Agreement among Lake Road Generating Company, LLC, Lake Road Trust Ltd., Wilmington Trust Company, in its individual capacity and as Trustee, Citibank, N.A., as the Priority L/C Issuer, the Several Priority Lenders from time to time parties hereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Citibank, N.A., as priority agent, dated as of December 4, 2002

EXHIBIT 99.1
EXECUTION COPY
                    THIS FOURTH WAIVER AND AMENDMENT (this ) dated as of December 23, 2002 is entered into among GenHoldings I, LLC (the ), each of the undersigned Banks and Lender Group Agents (collectively with each CP Conduit and Related Bank, the ), Citibank, N.A. as Security Agent, JP Morgan Chase Bank as LC Bank, each Hedge Bank (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and Societe Generale, as Administrative Agent (the ), and acknowledged and agreed by PG&E National Energy Group, Inc. (), each Project Company and each Intermediate Holding Company (as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement).
Agreement
Borrower
GenHoldings Lenders
Administrative Agent
NEG
                    WHEREAS, the Borrower, the GenHoldings Lenders, the Administrative Agent, and certain financial institutions identified as agents thereunder are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2002 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified prior to the date hereof, the ; capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby));
Credit Agreement
                    WHEREAS, NEG executed that certain Amended and Restated Guarantee dated as of March 15, 2002;
                    WHEREAS, in its Form 8-K Current Report dated October 10, 2002, NEG announced its intention not to make any further equity contributions to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries;
                    WHEREAS, the Borrower has notified the Administrative Agent that the Existing Defaults (as defined below) have occurred and are continuing;
                    WHEREAS, the Borrower, the GenHoldings Lenders and the Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Third Waiver and Amendment dated as of November 14, 2002 (the ), under which the GenHoldings Lenders agreed to a limited waiver with respect to the defaults existing at that time and certain of the GenHoldings Lenders agreed to continue making advances to the Borrower through December 24, 2002, subject to the terms and conditions stated therein;
Third Waiver
                    WHEREAS, upon the expiration of the Third Waiver, the Borrower will be unable to satisfy the conditions precedent to a Credit Event, including the conditions precedent to (a) the Borrowing of Construction Loans set forth in Section 3.3 of the Credit Agreement, (b) the Borrowing of Working Capital Loans set forth in Section 3.4 of the Credit Agreement, (c) the issuance of Project Letters of Credit set forth in Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement and (d) each Credit Event set forth in Section 3.12 of the Credit Agreement;
                    WHEREAS, upon the expiration of the Third Waiver, none of the GenHoldings Lenders will be obligated to effect or permit a Credit Event;
                    WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the GenHoldings Lenders waive permanently (x) the Existing Defaults and (y) certain conditions precedent applicable to the Borrowing of Construction Loans, the Borrowing of Working Capital Loans, the Issuance of Project Letters of Credit and all Credit Events;
                    WHEREAS, all of the GenHoldings Lenders are willing to (i) amend the Credit Agreement and consent to amendments to the Depositary Agreement and the Covert Project Company Guaranty, (ii) waive permanently the Existing Defaults (for all purposes other than satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement solely with respect to Secondary Letters of Credit) and (iii) waive until March 31, 2003 the Borrower Inchoate Default in connection with the failure of the Borrower to make or cause to be made Cash Equity Contributions for the months of October 2002, November 2002, December 2002, January 2003, February 2003 and March 2003 in accordance with Section 3.15.1(a) of the Credit Agreement (the ), on the terms and conditions expressly set forth in this Agreement.
Equity Default
                    WHEREAS, the Tranche A Lenders are willing to make new extensions of credit on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
                    WHEREAS, the GenHoldings Lenders that are not Tranche A Lenders are not willing to waive conditions precedent applicable to Borrowings and the issuance of Letters of Credit and are not willing to make additional credit extensions to the Borrower but are willing to consent to additional credit extensions by the Tranche A Lenders and to the issuance of additional Letters of Credit and are willing to consent to a subordination of all Tranche B Obligations to credit extensions by the Tranche A Lenders after November 14, 2002 and to Reimbursement Obligations in respect of Primary Letters of Credit on the terms and conditions set forth in Section 11.20 of the Credit Agreement;
                    WHEREAS, the Tranche B Lenders that are not Tranche A Lenders shall have no obligation to make any Loans or participate in any Letters of Credit, other than their obligation to participate in Secondary Letters of Credit and Project LC Loans on account thereof; and
                    NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the Recitals and of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Borrower, the Security Agent, each Hedge Bank, the Administrative Agent and the GenHoldings Lenders hereby agree as follows:
                    SECTION 1..  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement (as amended hereby).  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
  Definitions
                      means (a) the Borrower Inchoate Default in connection with the failure of the Borrower to comply with Section 3.12.9 of the Credit Agreement, (b) the Borrower Events of Default under Section 7.1.12(a) of the Credit Agreement (and any related Project Events of Default and Project Inchoate Defaults) in connection with the failure of PGET to provide credit support (within the applicable grace period set forth in Section 6.1.7 of each of the Project Company Guarantees) required under Section 3.4 of each of the PGET Purchase/Sale Agreements, (c) the Borrower Event of Default under Section 7.1.12(b) of the Credit Agreement in connection with the failure of the Millennium Project to achieve Completion on or before August 20, 2002, (d) the Borrower Inchoate Event of Default in connection with the filing by the EPC Contractor of lawsuits against the Borrower, the Covert Project and the Harquahala Project (e) the Borrower Event of Default under in connection with the Borrowers failure to make required interest payments on the Interest Rate Agreements prior to the date hereof and (f) any other Borrower Inchoate Default, Borrower Event of Default, Project Inchoate Default or Project Event of Default (other than the Equity Default) which arose prior to the date hereof in connection with any public announcement or SEC filings (including its 8-K statements) made by NEG prior to the date hereof announcing its intention not to make any further equity contributions to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Existing Defaults
Section 7.1.1
                      means (a) the Borrower, NEG or any other Credit Party shall fail to satisfy or perform any of the covenants or agreements contained herein or (b) any representation or warranty of the Borrower or any other Credit Party herein shall be false, misleading or incorrect in any material respect.  A Waiver Default shall not be a Borrower Inchoate Default or a Borrower Event of Default under the Credit Agreement unless and until the Administrative Agent (acting at the direction of the Majority Banks) has given notice to the Borrower of the same.
Waiver Default
                    SECTION 2..  Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6 hereof and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, each of the GenHoldings Lenders hereby agrees to waive permanently the Existing Defaults (for all purposes other than satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement solely with respect to Secondary Letters of Credit), waive until March 31, 2003 the Equity Default, waive permanently compliance by the Borrower with Section 3.3.12 and waive compliance by the Borrower with Section 3.12.4 of the Credit Agreement solely with respect to the filing of the lawsuits filed by the EPC Contractor for the Harquahala Project and Covert Project against such Projects and the Borrower prior to the date hereof.
  Limited Waivers
                     (b)    The waiver set forth herein shall not be deemed (i) a waiver of any Borrower Inchoate Default, Borrower Event of Default, Project Inchoate Default or Project Event of Default (other than the Existing Defaults and the Equity Default), (ii) a waiver with respect to any term, condition, or obligation of NEG, the Borrower or any other Credit Party in the Credit Agreement or in any other Credit Document except as expressly set forth herein, (iii) a waiver with respect to any other event or condition (whether now existing or hereafter occurring) except as expressly set forth herein, (iv) to prejudice any right or remedy which the Administrative Agent or any GenHoldings Lender may now or in the future have under or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document or (v) a waiver with respect to the Equity Default on and after March 31, 2003.
                    SECTION 3..  Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6 hereof and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, each of the GenHoldings Lenders hereby agrees to amend the Credit Agreement as follows:
  Amendments to Credit Agreement
                     (a)    Section 2.1.6(b) is amended by (x) replacing All Construction Loans with Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (including, without limitation, and ), all Construction Loans and replacing All Loans with Subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement (including, without limitation, and ), all Loans.
Sections 2.1.9
3.16
Sections 2.1.9
3.16
                     (b)    Section 2.1.8 (c) is amended by amending and restating the last paragraph as follows:  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, prepayments of less than all of the outstanding Loans made pursuant to clauses (ii) through (iv) above shall be applied (subject to ) in accordance with .
Section 11.20
Section 2.5.5
                     (c)    New Section 2.1.9 is inserted as follows:
                     2.1.9  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any                     other Credit Document, no GenHoldings Lender with a Non-Ratable Loan Commitment shall be obligated to make any Tranche A Construction Loans or Working Capital Loans or participate in any Letter of Credit, in all cases under such GenHoldings Lenders Non-Ratable Loan Commitment, until and after all Tranche A Lenders shall have funded their Proportionate Shares of the Total Construction Loan Commitment or the Total Working Capital/Project LC Commitment, as the case may be.
Non-Ratable Loan Commitments
                     (d)    Section 2.2.8 is amended by replacing Each Tranche A Bank with Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (including, without limitation, and ), each Tranche A Bank.
Sections 2.1.9
3.16
                     (e)    Section 2.2.14 is amended and restated as follows:
                     2.2.14  .  The LC Bank may resign from that capacity at any time by giving seven (7) Banking Days written notice to such effect to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and from and after the end of such notice period, the resigning LC Bank shall have no further obligation to issue any Letters of Credit.  Upon such resignation, the Administrative Agent (with the consent of the Borrower (unless a Borrower Event of Default, Borrower Inchoate Default, Project Event of Default or Project Inchoate Default shall have occurred and be continuing) not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall appoint a successor LC Bank to issue subsequent Letters of Credit.
Resignation by LC Bank
                     (f)    Section 2.4.3(c) is amended and restated as follows:
                     (c) . On the date of the first extension of credit by any GenHoldings Lender with a Non-Ratable Loan Commitment, the Borrower shall pay in cash to each GenHoldings Lender with a Non-Ratable Loan Commitment, a fee in the amount of .50% of such GenHoldings Lenders Non-Ratable Loan Commitment.
Non-Ratable Loan Commitment Fee
                     (g)     Section 2.5.5 is amended and restated as follows:
                     2.5.5.            .  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein or in the other Credit Documents (including of the Depositary Agreement), all payments made by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries, NEG or any other party under this Agreement or the other Credit Documents and other amounts received by Administrative Agent, the Banks and the Lender Groups under this Agreement or the other Credit Documents shall be applied as follows:
Application of Payments
Article IV
                     (a) first, to any fees, costs, charges or expenses payable to Administrative Agent, the LC Bank, the Banks and the Lenders Groups hereunder or under the other Credit Documents (other than in connection with the Tranche B Obligations or the Interest Rate Agreements), pro rata,
                     (b) second, to any accrued but unpaid interest then due and owing in respect of the Obligations (other than Tranche B Construction Loans, Project LC Loans on account of Secondary Letters of Credit and Interest Rate Agreements),
                     (c) third, to outstanding principal then due and owing or otherwise to be prepaid in respect of Tranche A Construction Loans, Working Capital Loans and Project LC Loans on account of Primary Letters of Credit, pro rata,
                     (d) fourth, to cash collateralize Primary Letters of Credit outstanding in an amount equal to 105% of the face amount thereof,
                     (e) fifth, to pay to each GenHoldings Lender and Hedge Bank an aggregate amount equal to 23% of all outstanding Tranche B Construction Loans and Hedge Breaking Fees outstanding on December 23, 2002, pro rata, for application by such GenHoldings Lender or Hedge Bank to the principal amount of such obligations, pro rata,
                     (f) sixth, to pay to each Tranche A Lender an amount equal to 50% of the amount of extensions of credit made on or after December 23, 2002 by such Tranche A Lender, pro rata, for application by such Tranche A Lender at its option, to either its Tranche B Construction Loans or Hedge Breaking Fees,
                     (g) seventh, to any accrued but unpaid interest and fees, costs, charges and expenses then due and owing in respect of the Tranche B Construction Loans, Project LC Loans on account of Secondary Letters of Credit and interest due and owing in respect of Interest Rate Agreements, pro rata,
                     (h) eighth, to outstanding principal then due and owing or otherwise to be prepaid in respect of Tranche B Construction Loans, Hedge Breaking Fees and Project LC Loans on account of Secondary Letters of Credit, pro rata
                     (i) ninth, to cash collateralize Secondary Letters of Credit outstanding in an amount up to 105% of the face amount thereof, and
                     (j) tenth, to outstanding principal then due and owing or otherwise to be prepaid in respect of the other Obligations.
                     (h)     Section 2.6.1 is amended by replacing Subject to Section 11.20, except as otherwise provided herein with Subject to and the other terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (including, without limitation, and ).
Section 11.20
Sections 2.1.9
3.16
                     (i)     Section 3.3.13 is amended and restated as follows:
                     3.3.13  .  The Supermajority Tranche A Lenders and with respect to advances under the Non-Ratable Loan Commitments, the GenHoldings Lenders with Proportionate Shares of Non-Ratable Loan Commitments equal to or in excess of 66 2/3% shall have been satisfied (in their sole discretion), (i) with the results of their due diligence with respect to (x) the assets and liabilities of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, frequency variations with regard to the Harquahala Project) and (y) any litigation brought against NEG, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) with the estimated costs of completion for each Project, as set forth in the most recent Budgets delivered to the Administrative Agent  (provided that the use of the Contingency shall not of itself be the sole reason for such condition to be unsatisfied), (iii) subject to Section 9.9(vii) with respect to a transfer to the GenHoldings Lenders, with the status of title to each of the Projects and ownership of the Project Companies, the Intermediate Holding Companies and the Borrower, (iv) with the valuation of each Project Companys assets, (v) the status of NEGs restructuring efforts, (vi) the status of the construction and operation of the Projects and the power sales and gas procurement arrangements and (vii) that there has been no Borrower Material Adverse Effect or Project Material Adverse Effect.  This condition shall be satisfied so long as neither Tranche A Lenders holding greater than 33 1/3% of the Total Construction Loan Commitment (without giving effect to the Non-Ratable Commitments) nor with respect to advances under the Non-Ratable Loan Commitments, GenHoldings Lenders with Non-Ratable Loan Commitments in excess of 33-1/3 % of the Non-Ratable Loan Commitments shall have delivered a notice stating otherwise to the Administrative Agent at least three days in advance of the date of making any Loan or the issuance of any Project Letter of Credit.
Other Conditions to Each Advance
                     (j)     New Section 3.16 is inserted as follows:
                     3.16  .
Non-Ratable Loan Commitments
                    3.16.1  .  Before any GenHoldings Lender with Non-Ratable Loan Commitments makes any Tranche A Construction Loans under such Non-Ratable Loan Commitments, all Tranche A Lenders shall have fully funded their Proportionate Share of the Total Construction Loan Commitment.
Non-Ratable Construction Loans
                    3.16.2  .  Before any GenHoldings Lender with Non-Ratable Loan Commitments makes any Working Capital Loans under such Non-Ratable Loan Commitments, all Tranche A Lenders shall have fully funded their Proportionate Shares of the Total Working Capital/Project LC Commitment.
Non-Ratable Working Capital Loans
                    (k)     Section 5.15 is amended and restated as follows:
                     5.15   .  Borrower shall and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, deliver (or cause to be delivered) to the Administrative Agent:
Other Reporting Requirements
                     (a) on or before the fifteenth Banking Day of each calendar month (i) consolidating balance sheets for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (ii) a report of balances owed by each of the Project Companies and Intermediate Holding Companies to the Borrower as at the end of the immediately preceding calendar month, (iii) an operating report (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Independent Engineer) for the immediately preceding month for the Millennium Project and any other Project that has achieved Completion and (iv) an updated Borrower Budget, an updated Project Budget (for each Project Company) and an updated Annual Operating Budget (for each Project Company), all in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, that no updated Project Budget or Borrower Budget shall deviate more than 10% in the aggregate from such Budgets delivered as a condition to closing under the Fourth Waiver and Amendment dated as of December 23, 2002 and, , that (x) no Annual Operating Budget for the Millennium Project shall deviate with respect to fixed costs more than 10% in the aggregate from such Budget delivered as a condition to closing under the Fourth Waiver and Amendment dated as of December 23, 2002 and (y) with respect to the Covert Project, the Harquahala Project and the Athens Project, after an initial Annual Operating Budget has been delivered, no updated Annual Operating Budget shall deviate more than 10% in the aggregate with respect to fixed costs from such initial Annual Operating Budgets;
provided
provided
further
                     (b) contemporaneously with the delivery thereof, copies of all reports, financial information, statements and other documents delivered to NEGs revolving credit lenders;
                     (c) periodic reports on the status of NEGs global reorganization efforts (including the status of discussions with NEGs other creditors);
                     (d) timely notice of the commencement of any material litigation or other proceeding against NEG or any of its Subsidiaries;
                     (e) on or prior to the second Banking Day of each week, a written report of current Change Orders; and
                     (f) any other reports reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or FTI Consulting.
(l)     New Sections 5.19 and 5.20 are inserted as follows:
                     5.19  .  If requested by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver or shall cause to be delivered to the Administrative Agent duly executed Mortgage amendments (in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion) which increase the aggregate secured Debt of all Mortgages to the actual amount of Debt hereunder and under the other Credit Documents (or such lesser amount as agreed to by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion).
Mortgage Amendments
                    5.20  .  To the extent reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall (i) terminate or cause the termination of any outstanding agreements between the Project Companies and PGET, on mutually agreeable terms and conditions and (ii) cooperate in the transition to a third-party power purchaser and gas supplier.
PGET Agreements
                     (m)     Section 6.4 is amended and restated as follows:
                     6.4  . Notwithstanding the terms of Section 5.4 of each of the Project Company Guarantees, Borrower shall not (and shall not permit its Subsidiaries to) sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, without the consent of the Majority Banks, , that (subject to ) neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall dispose of any Project or any interest therein without the prior written consent of the Supermajority Banks, and, that the Project Companies may sell assets in the ordinary course of business.
Sale of Assets
provided
however
Section 9.9
provided
further
                     (n)     New Section 7.1.15 is amended and restated as follows:
                     7.1.15  .  The Projects shall not have been transferred at the direction of the GenHoldings Lenders (on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the GenHoldings Lenders in their sole discretion) on or prior to March 31, 2003.
Project Disposition
                     (o)     Section 9.9(a) is amended and restated as follows:
                     9.9  .
Amendments; Waivers
                     (a)  Subject to the provisions of this , unless otherwise specified in this Agreement or any other Credit Document, the Majority Banks (or Administrative Agent with the prior written consent of the Majority Banks) may approve in writing any amendment, supplement or other modification of, or waiver, consent, approval, agreement or other action under or with respect to, any Credit Document; , , that no such amendment, supplement, modification, waiver, consent, approval, agreement or action shall modify or waive:
Section 9.9
provided
however
                     (i)  (A) the definitions of Supermajority Tranche A Lenders, Majority Tranche A Lenders or Majority Tranche A Banks without the consent of each Tranche A Bank and (B) (x)  or (y) the right to transfer any equity or voting interest in any Credit Party (other than to the GenHoldings Lenders and as otherwise expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents), in each case without the prior written consent of the Supermajority Banks; and
Section 7.1.10(a)
                     (ii) , , (or any change, amendment, waiver or other modification which results in satisfaction of any condition in such Sections not otherwise satisfied) and , in each case without the prior written consent of each of the Tranche A Banks;
Sections 3.3
3.4
3.15
7.1.15
, , , that no such amendment, supplement, modification, waiver, consent, approval, agreement or action shall, without the prior written consent of all of the Banks and all of the Lender Groups:
provided
further
however
                    (i)  Modify or waive (A) (Pro Rata Treatment), (Change of Circumstances), (Funding Losses), (Alternate Office, etc.), (Conditions Precedent to Closing Date), (Indebtedness), the definition of Borrower Permitted Debt, (Loss of Control of Project), (Negative Pledge), (Administrative Agent), (Participation) or (Transfer of Commitments) hereof, (B) (Guarantee) of any Project Company Guaranty, (C) (Guarantee) of the NEG Equity Guaranty or any corresponding section of any other Equity Document, or (D) (Establishment and Administration of Accounts) or (Security Interest; Remedies) of the Depositary Agreement (except as expressly set forth therein);
Section 2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
3.1
6.3
7.1.10(b)
7.1.11
9.1
9.13
9.14
Article II
Section II
Article II
Article III
                     (ii)  Increase the amount of any Commitment of any Bank or Lender Group hereunder or the aggregate amount of the Commitments;
                     (iii)  Change the percentage specified in the definition of Majority Banks or Supermajority Banks;
                     (iv)  Change any requirement that an amendment, waiver or other matter hereunder or under the other Credit Documents be subject to the consent or approval of a specified percentage or number of Banks or Lender Groups;
                     (v)  Change the definition of Maximum Debt to Capitalization Ratio;
                     (vi)  Modify Exhibit I to this Agreement, except in connection with assignments in accordance with ;
Section 9.14
                     (vii)  Permit, or make a final determination with respect to any issues related to a transfer of any equity or voting interest in any Credit Party, or a transfer of any assets of any Credit Party, directly or indirectly to the GenHoldings Lenders;
                     (viii)  Amend this ;
Section 9.9
                     (ix)  Permit the release of any Collateral from the Lien of any of the Collateral Documents, except as otherwise expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents, including with respect to dispositions of assets permitted under ;
Section 6.4
                     (x)  Extend the maturity of any Loan or any of the Notes or reduce the principal amount thereof;
                     (xi)  Extend the Expiration Date of any Letter of Credit (other than any automatic extension of the Expiration Date of any Letter of Credit that is expressly provided for in such Letter of Credit);
                     (xii)  Extend the scheduled Final Maturity Date;
                     (xiii)  Reduce the amount or change the time of payment for any principal, interest, fees or other amounts due hereunder or under any other Credit Document;
                     (xiv)  Increase the maximum duration of Interest Periods permitted hereunder;
                    (xv)  Agree to subordinate the Obligations to any other indebtedness; or
                     (xvi)  Permit any Equity Party or Credit Party to assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its rights or obligations under, or permit the termination or release of, any of the Credit Documents, except as expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
                     (p)     The following Section 9.14.3 is inserted after Section 9.14.2:
                     9.14.3 .  Upon the request of a GenHoldings Lender that is not a Tranche A Lender (a ), each GenHoldings Lender that has a Non-Ratable Loan Commitment (a ) shall assign to such Tranche A Assignee in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 9.14.1 at par value (unless otherwise mutually agreed) its pro rata share (determined by dividing such Non-Ratable Lenders Non-Ratable Loan Commitment by the total of all Non-Ratable Loan Commitments) of an amount equal to such Tranche A Assignees Proportionate Share (with respect to the Tranche B Construction Loans) of (i) the Tranche A Obligations (including participations in Primary Letters of Credit) and  (ii) the commitment of the Tranche A Lenders to make Tranche A Loans (and participate in Primary Letters of Credit), , the Tranche A Assignee shall not receive any portion of the fee payable pursuant to Section 6 of the Fourth Waiver and Amendment dated as of December 23, 2002 or any portion of the fee payable pursuant to and a Non-Ratable Lender shall have no obligation to assign Commitments to a Tranche A Assignee unless such request is delivered to the Administrative Agent in writing (by facsimile or otherwise) on or before March 15, 2003 and otherwise at least fifteen days prior to a Monthly Date.  The result of any such assignments shall be that the Tranche A Assignee will hold a Tranche A Construction Loan Commitment and a share of the Total Working Capital/Project LC Commitment (and not a Non-Ratable Loan Commitment), in each case in a Proportionate Share equal to its Proportionate Share of the Tranche B Construction Loans, and each Non-Ratable Lenders share of the aggregate Non-Ratable Loan Commitment will be reduced proportionately.  To avoid any duplication, appropriate adjustments will be made to upon any such assignment.  Upon the effectiveness of such assignment such Tranche A Assignee shall be deemed a Tranche A Lender.
Assignment of Tranche A Obligations to GenHoldings Lenders that are Not Tranche A Lenders
Tranche A Assignee
Non-Ratable Lender
provided
however
Section 2.4.3(c)
Section 2.5.5(f)
                     (q)     Section 11.20(a) is amended by inserting except as expressly set forth in and , after each of the Tranche A Lenders, in the first sentence.
Sections 2.1.8
2.5.5
                     (r)     Section 11.20(c) is amended by inserting , except as expressly set forth in and  after Bankruptcy Event (before the:).
Sections 2.1.8
2.5.5
                     (s)     Section 11.20(d) is amended by inserting except as expressly set forth in and  before the first reference to such Tranche B Lender.
Sections 2.1.8
2.5.5
                     (t)     Section 11.20(g) is amended and restated as follows:
                                         (g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this , the subordination provisions contained in this are not applicable to any extensions of credit other than (x) the extensions of credit scheduled on Annex I and II to the Third Waiver and Amendment dated as of November 14, 2002 and (y) the extensions of credit under and in connection with the Fourth Waiver and Amendment dated as of December 23, 2002.
Section 11.20
Section 11.20
                     (u)     Exhibit A to the Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
                             (i)  The definition of Available Construction Loan Commitment is amended and restated as follows:
Available Construction Loan Commitment means (a) at any time during the Construction Loan Availability Period, (i) the Total Construction Loan Commitment minus (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Tranche A Construction Loans outstanding at such time (other than Tranche A Construction Loans made before December 23, 2002) and (b) at any time after the end of the Construction Loan Availability Period, zero.
                             (ii)  The definition of Committed Construction Loan Dollar Amount is replaced with:
Committed Tranche A Construction Loan Dollar Amount means $466,155,000 plus any applicable Incremental Commitments.
                             (iii)  The definition of Committed Working Capital/Project LC Dollar Amount is amended and restated as follows:
Committed Working Capital/Project LC Dollar Amount means $167,508,100 plus any applicable Incremental Commitments.
                            (iv)  The definition of Construction Loan Availability Period is amended and restated as follows:
Construction Loan Availability Period means the period commencing on December 23, 2002 and ending on the earlier of (i) the Last Completion Date and (ii) the Final Maturity Date.
                            (v)  The definition of Proportionate Share is amended and restated as follows:
Proportionate Share means (a) with respect to each Bank and each Lender Group (other than Hedge Banks), the percentage participation (without giving effect to the Non-Ratable Loan Commitment) of such Bank or such Lender Group, as the case may be, in the Total Construction Loan Commitment (as set forth in column 3 of Part I of Exhibit I to this Agreement), the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Construction Loans outstanding (as set forth in Part III of Exhibit I to this Agreement) or the Total Working Capital/Project LC Commitment (as set forth in column 3 of Part II of Exhibit I to this Agreement) (provided that with respect to Secondary Letters of Credit and Reimbursement Obligations and Project LC Loans related thereto, the Proportionate Shares shall be as set forth in Part III of Exhibit I to this Agreement), as applicable, (b) with respect to the Non-Ratable Loan Commitments, the percentages participation of each GenHoldings Lender with such a Non-Ratable Loan Commitment as set forth in column 5 of each of Parts I and II of Exhibit I to this Agreement and (c) with respect to each Hedge Bank, the Proportionate Share that such Hedge Bank is deemed to have pursuant to .
Section 5.13.3
                            (vi)  The following definitions are inserted in their proper alphabetical place:
Non-Ratable Loan Commitment means the commitment of any GenHoldings Lender to make Tranche A Loans (in the Proportionate Share set forth in column 5 of each of Parts I and II on Exhibit I) on or after December 23, 2002 in excess of its Proportionate Share (set forth in column 3 of each of Parts I and II of Exhibit I).
Supermajority Tranche A Lenders means Tranche A Lenders with Proportionate Shares (as set forth under column 3 of Parts I and II of Exhibit I) that exceed 66 2/3% in the aggregate.
                     (v)     Exhibit I to the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as set forth in Annex I hereto.
                    SECTION 4.  .  Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6 hereof and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the GenHoldings Lenders hereby agree to amend the Depositary Agreement as follows:
Amendments to Depositary Agreement
                     (a)    Sections 4.1.1(c), 4.2.1(c) and 4.3.1(d) are each amended by replacing the text therein with Intentionally omitted.
                     (b)    Section 4.3.2 is amended by replacing clauses , and as follows:
Second
Third
Fourth
                     , intentionally omitted;
Second
                     , transfer to the Debt Payment Account an amount of Account Funds sufficient to cause the amount of Account Funds in the Debt Payment Account to equal the sum of all payments due and payable under the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents scheduled to be due and payable on or prior to the next Monthly Date, all in accordance with of the Credit Agreement;
Third
Section 2.5.5
                     , intentionally omitted.
Fourth
                     (c)    Section 4.5.2 is amended by replacing clauses through with:
First
Fifth
                     , to pay all interest on outstanding Tranche A Loans due and payable on such Scheduled Payment Date;
First
                    , to pay all Commitment Fees, Letter of Credit Fees, administrative fees, depositary agent fees, fronting fees and other scheduled fees due and payable on such Scheduled Payment Date;
Second
                    , to make payments in accordance with of the Credit Agreement;
Third
Section 2.5.5
                    , intentionally omitted; and
Fourth
                    , intentionally omitted.
Fifth
                    SECTION 5.  .  Section 4.18 of the Project Company Guaranty made by Covert Generating Company, LLC in favor of the Administrative Agent is hereby amended by replacing On or prior to October 1, 2002 (which date may be extended to December 31, 2002 with the approval of the Administrative Agent) with On or prior to April 1, 2003 (which date may be extended with the approval of the Administrative Agent).
Amendment to Covert Project Company Guaranty
                    SECTION 6.  .  This Agreement shall not be effective unless and until the date when each of the following conditions shall have been satisfied or waived in the sole discretion of the Administrative Agent:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Agreement
                     (i)  the Administrative Agent shall have received and delivered to the Borrower counterparts of this Agreement duly executed by the Borrower, NEG and each of the GenHoldings Lenders;
                     (ii)  the Administrative Agent shall have received (x) the Project Company Acknowledgment set forth at the end hereof executed by each Project Company and (y) the Intermediate Holding Company Acknowledgement set forth at the end hereof executed by each Intermediate Holding Company;
                     (iii)  to the extent reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have (x) terminated, or shall have caused the termination of, outstanding agreements between the Project Companies and PGET, on mutually agreeable terms and conditions and (y) agreed to and caused its Subsidiaries to cooperate in a transition to a third-party power purchaser and gas supplier;
                     (iv)  the Administrative Agent shall have received in cash, all accrued fees of the Administrative Agent including fees and expenses of its legal counsel, advisors and professionals (limited to Luskin, Stern & Eisler LLP, Latham & Watkins, Sullivan & Cromwell, one local real estate counsel in each of Arizona, Michigan and Massachusetts, FTI Consulting, PA Consulting Group, R.W. Beck, Inc., Pace Energy Consulting Group LLC,  and The Blackstone Group L.P.);
                     (v)  the Administrative Agent shall have received in cash for its own account, the fee set forth in the Fee Letter dated the date hereof, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent;
                     (vi)  the Administrative Agent shall have received a revised Borrower Budget, revised Project Budgets (for each Project Company that has not achieved Completion) and revised Annual Operating Budgets (for each Project Company that has achieved Completion) all in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the GenHoldings Lenders (in their sole discretion);
                     (vii)  the Administrative Agent shall have received in cash, for the account of the Tranche A Lenders, in their Proportionate Shares, an upfront fee in the amount of 3% of the sum of (x) the Total Construction Loan Commitment (y) the sum of (I) the Total Working Capital/Project LC Commitment (II) $30,000,000;
plus
minus
                     (viii)  the Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent such other documents as the Administrative Agent shall have reasonably requested;
                     (ix)  there shall be no pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower after due inquiry, threatened litigation, proceeding, inquiry or other action (i) seeking an injunction or other restraining order, damages or other relief with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other documents and agreements executed or delivered in connection herewith or (ii) which affects or could reasonably be expected to affect the business, prospects, operations, assets, liabilities or condition (financial or otherwise) of any Credit Party, except, in the case of clause (ii), where such litigation, proceeding, inquiry or other action either (x) has been disclosed in writing to the GenHoldings Lenders or (y) could not reasonably be expected to cause a material adverse effect on the Borrowers business; and
                     (x)  after the effectiveness hereof, no Borrower Inchoate Default, Borrower Event of Default, Project Inchoate Default, Project Event of Default or Waiver Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date hereof.
                     (b)     The payments required to be made pursuant to clause (iv) of Section 6(a) hereof shall be made by a Person other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
                    SECTION 7.  .  The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and to the Lenders as follows:
Representations and Warranties
                     (a)  The Recitals in this Agreement are true and correct in all respects.
                     (b)  All representations and warranties of the Borrower in the Credit Agreement and of each of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties in the other Credit Documents to which it is a party are incorporated herein in full by this reference and are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof other than such representations and warranties that expressly relate solely to an earlier date, in which case, they are true and correct as of such earlier date.
                     (c)  After the effectiveness hereof, no Borrower Inchoate Default, Borrower Event of Default, Project Inchoate Default or Project Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing.
                     (d)  Each of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties has the power and has been duly authorized by all requisite action, to execute and deliver this Agreement and the other documents and agreements executed and delivered in connection herewith to which it is a party.  This Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and the other documents and agreements executed and delivered in connection herewith to which the Borrower or any Credit Party is a party have been duly executed and delivered by each of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties.
                     (e)  This Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and the other documents and agreements executed or delivered in connection herewith to which the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties is a party are the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties, in each case enforceable against each of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or similar law affecting creditors rights generally.
                     (f)  The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other documents and agreements executed and delivered in connection herewith does not and will not (i) violate any law, rule, regulation or court order to which any of the Borrower or the other Credit Parties is subject; (ii) conflict with or result in a breach of the certificate of formation or bylaws or Operating Agreement or Partnership Agreement of the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties or any other agreement or instrument to which it is party or by which any of the properties or assets of the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties are bound; or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien, security interest or encumbrance on any property or asset of the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties or Liens permitted under the Credit Agreement, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent or Liens permitted under the Credit Agreement.
                     (g)  No consent or authorization of, filing with or other act by or in respect of any Governmental Authority or any other Person is required in connection with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of (i) this Agreement by the Borrower or (ii) the other documents or agreements executed or delivered in connection herewith to which any of the Borrower or the other Credit Parties is party, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or the continuing operations of any of the Borrower or the other Credit Parties following the consummation of such transactions.
                     (h)     (i)  As of the date hereof: (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of (I) Tranche A Construction Loans is $74,645,000.00, (II) Tranche B Construction Loans is $1,067,612,000.07, (III) Working Capital Loans is $0 and (IV) Project LC Loans is $0; (B) the aggregate undrawn face amount of (I) Primary Letters of Credit is $0 and (II) Secondary Letters of Credit is $3,591,900.00; and (C) the Available Equity Commitment is $354,720,386.00.  Interest and fees have accrued on the Loans and Project Letters of Credit as provided in the Credit Agreement.  As of and on the date hereof, the obligation of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties to repay the Loans and the other Obligations, together with all interest and fees accrued thereon, is absolute and unconditional, and there exists no right of set off or recoupment, counterclaim or defense of any nature whatsoever to payment of the Obligations. 
                          (ii)  As of the date hereof, the liability of NEG under: (A) the NEG Equity Guaranty is in an amount not less than $354,720,386.00; and (B) the NEG EPC Guarantees and the Other NEG Support Agreements is in an unliquidated amount, in each case, without any right of set off or recoupment, counterclaim or defense of any nature whatsoever.
                          (iii)  As of the date hereof, (i) all Interest Rate Agreements have been terminated, (ii) all Hedge Breaking Fees are immediately due and payable, are absolute and unconditional, and there exists no right of set off or recoupment, counterclaim or defense of any nature whatsoever to payment of the Hedge Breaking Fees and (iii) the amounts outstanding under each Interest Rate Agreement are as set forth on Annex II hereto.
                    SECTION 8.  .  NEG hereby:
NEG Obligations
                     (a)     as the equity guarantor under the NEG Equity Guaranty (along with the Borrower, and each of the Borrowers Subsidiaries as a guarantor or a pledgor), agrees to cooperate with any reasonable proposal by the Administrative Agent (which is subject to the consent of the GenHoldings Lenders, as set forth in the Credit Agreement) regarding disposition of the equity in or assets of any or all of the Project Companies;
                     (b)     agrees to continue to manage (in cooperation with the Borrower) the construction of the Projects and to operate the Millennium Project and upon Completion, to operate any other Project (on mutually agreeable terms and conditions) until reasonably requested otherwise by the Administrative Agent and, if so requested otherwise, to cooperate in a transition to a third-party management company with respect to each operation;
                     (c)     agrees to cooperate, and cause its Subsidiaries to cooperate, in all respects with the consultants and advisors engaged by the Administrative Agent (including, without limitation, FTI Consulting, PA Consulting Group, R.W. Beck, Inc., Pace Energy Consulting Group LLC,  and The Blackstone Group L.P. and all attorneys engaged by the Administrative Agent) or any of the GenHoldings Lenders;
                     (d)     agrees to reimburse, or cause the reimbursement of, the Administrative Agent for all reasonable costs, fees and expenses of counsel, consultants and other professionals (limited to Luskin, Stern & Eisler LLP, Latham & Watkins, Sullivan & Cromwell, FTI Consulting, The Blackstone Group L.P. (other than any success fee), PA Consulting Group, Pace Energy Consulting Group LLC, R.W. Beck, Inc. and one local real estate counsel in each of Massachusetts, Arizona and Michigan) engaged by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent;
                     (e)     notwithstanding the terms of this Agreement, reaffirms and acknowledges all of its obligations under each of the Operative Documents to which is it a party (including, without limitation, the NEG Equity Guaranty, the NEG EPC Guarantees and the Other NEG Support Agreements) to the extent such obligations relate to the period during which NEG has a beneficial ownership interest in any of the Projects;
                     (f)     agrees that in the event of a filing of a petition for bankruptcy by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, it shall cooperate with the efforts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to ensure that all Tranche A Construction Loans, all Working Capital Loans, all Primary Letters of Credit and all other extensions of credit made or issued by the GenHoldings Lenders to the Borrower on or after November 14, 2002, shall be (x) repaid (or cash collateralized in the case of Letters of Credit) with the proceeds of a debtor-in-possession financing (a ) or (y) rolled up into the DIP facility and given the same priority and collateral as the DIP Facility;
DIP Facility
                     (g)     agrees that, if it shall pay any interest, fees or expenses to any of its creditors for any period of time, it shall pay interest, fees or expenses, as the case may be, to the GenHoldings Lenders for the same period in connection with extensions of credit made by the GenHoldings Lenders on and after October 25, 2002 (so long as NEG shall not have made a payment under the Available Equity Commitment) in an aggregate amount not to exceed the Available Equity Commitment; and
                     (h)     agrees that as of the date hereof, its liability under: (i) the NEG Equity Guaranty is in an amount not less than $354,720,386.00; and (ii) the NEG EPC Guarantees and the Other NEG Support Agreements is in an unliquidated amount, in each case, without any right of set off or recoupment, counterclaim or defense of any nature whatsoever.
                    SECTION 9.  .
Effect and Construction of Agreement
                     (a)     Except as expressly provided herein, the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms, and this Agreement shall not be construed to:
                            (i)  impair the validity, perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest securing the Obligations;
                            (ii)  waive or impair any rights, powers or remedies of the Administrative Agent or any GenHoldings Lender under the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document except as provided herein;
                            (iii)  constitute an agreement by the Administrative Agent or any GenHoldings Lender or require the Administrative Agent or any GenHoldings Lender to grant additional waivers or waiver periods, or extend the term of the Credit Agreement or the time for payment of any of the Obligations; or
                            (iv)  require any GenHoldings Lender to make any Loans, issue any Letters of Credit, or provide other extensions of credit to the Borrower.
                     (b)     This Agreement shall constitute a Credit Document.
                     (c)     The delivery by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower of notice of a Waiver Default shall constitute a Borrower Event of Default with no grace period.
                     (d)     In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, this Agreement shall govern.  The Borrower acknowledges that it has consulted with counsel and with such other experts and advisors as it has deemed necessary in connection with the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule requiring that it be construed against the party causing this Agreement or any part hereof to be drafted.
                    SECTION 10.  .  Upon the effectiveness hereof, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the other Credit Documents to the Credit Agreement, thereunder, thereof or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as modified hereby.
Reference to and Effect on the Loan Documents
                    SECTION 11.  .
Miscellaneous
                     (a)     Notwithstanding anything in the Credit Documents to the contrary, the proceeds of all Loans shall be used in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents as modified hereby and by the documents executed in connection herewith, that proceeds of any Loans shall not be used (i) to repay any equity holder (direct or indirect) of the Borrower for any Cash Equity Contribution or otherwise (other than fees payable under service contracts or other management agreements (subject to Section 6.8 of the Credit Agreement) on terms and conditions acceptable to the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion) or (ii) to make any investments, loans, advances or distributions to any equity holder (direct or indirect) of the Borrower.
provided
                     (b)     The Borrower covenants and agrees that any construction management company and any operations and maintenance management company engaged by (or on behalf of) any of the Project Companies shall be reasonably acceptable (and subject to engagement agreements) to the Administrative Agent and each of the GenHoldings Lenders in their sole discretion.
                     (c)     In addition to, and not in limitation of, the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Commitment, any Loan or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and thereafter until satisfaction and payment in cash in full of the Obligations, and to the extent there are funds available for such purpose (if applicable), it shall comply and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply with all covenants in this Agreement, the Credit Agreement and each of the other Credit Documents.
                     (d)     The Borrower agrees to execute (and to cause each of the other Credit Parties to execute) such other and further documents and instruments as the Administrative Agent may request to implement the provisions of this Agreement.
                     (e)     The Borrower hereby consents to the terms of the last sentence on the Intermediate Holding Company Acknowledgement, attached hereto.
                     (f)     This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  No other person or entity shall be entitled to claim any right or benefit hereunder, including, without limitation, the status of a third-party beneficiary of this Agreement.
                     (g)     This Agreement, together with the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents, constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior proposals, negotiations, agreements and understandings relating to such subject matter.  In entering into this Agreement, the Borrower acknowledges that it is not relying on any statement, representation, warranty, covenant or agreement of any kind made by the Administrative Agent, any GenHoldings Lender, or any employee, agent or professional of the Administrative Agent or any GenHoldings Lender, except for the express written agreements of the Administrative Agent and the GenHoldings Lenders set forth herein.
                     (h)     The provisions of this Agreement are intended to be severable.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, such provision shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or enforceability without in any manner affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction or the remaining provisions of this Agreement in any jurisdiction.
                     (i)     This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and by any party to this Agreement on separate counterparts, all of which, when so executed, shall be deemed an original, but all of such counterparts shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Any signature delivered by a party by facsimile transmission shall be deemed to be, and effective as, an original signature hereto.
                     (j)     Any notices with respect to this Agreement shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 11.1 of the Credit Agreement.
                     (k)     All representations, warranties, covenants, agreements, undertakings, waivers and releases of the Borrower contained herein shall survive the occurrence of any Waiver Default, Borrower Event of Default, Borrower Inchoate Default, Project Event of Default or Project Inchoate Default and payment in full of the Obligations under the Credit Agreement.
                     (l)     No amendment, modification, rescission, waiver or release of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
                     (m)     Any fees payable hereunder or in connection herewith (including, without limitation, under Section 6(a) hereof) shall be non-refundable and fully earned when paid.
                     (n)     On or before January 6, 2003, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a legal opinion from counsel to the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and NEG which shall include, among other things, opinions as to due execution and authorization and shall be otherwise in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent and its counsel in their reasonable discretion.
                    SECTION 12.  .  EACH OF NEG, THE BORROWER AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT DOES NOT HAVE ANY DEFENSES, COUNTERCLAIMS, OFFSETS, CROSS-COMPLAINTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS OF ANY KIND OR NATURE WHATSOEVER THAT CAN BE ASSERTED TO REDUCE OR ELIMINATE ALL OR ANY PART OF LIABILITY OF THE BORROWER TO REPAY THE GENHOLDINGS LENDERS AND THE HEDGE BANKS AS PROVIDED IN THE CREDIT AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS OR TO SEEK AFFIRMATIVE RELIEF OR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE FROM THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY GENHOLDINGS LENDER OR ANY HEDGE BANK.  EACH OF NEG, THE BORROWER AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES HEREBY VOLUNTARILY AND KNOWINGLY RELEASES AND FOREVER DISCHARGES THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE GENHOLDINGS LENDERS, THE HEDGE BANKS AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS, EACH GENHOLDINGS LENDERS AND EACH HEDGE BANKS PREDECESSORS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, FROM ALL POSSIBLE CLAIMS, DEMANDS, ACTIONS, CAUSES OF ACTION, DAMAGES, COSTS, OR EXPENSES, AND LIABILITIES WHATSOEVER, KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, ANTICIPATED OR UNANTICIPATED, SUSPECTED OR UNSUSPECTED, FIXED, CONTINGENT, OR CONDITIONAL, AT LAW OR IN EQUITY, ORIGINATING IN WHOLE OR IN PART ON OR BEFORE THE DATE THIS AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED BY THE BORROWER, WHICH EITHER NEG, THE BORROWER OR ITS SUBSIDIARIES MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY GENHOLDINGS LENDER OR ANY HEDGE BANK IN THEIR CAPACITIES AS SUCH, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS, ANY GENHOLDINGS LENDERS OR ANY HEDGE BANKS PREDECESSORS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, IF ANY,  IN THEIR CAPACITIES AS SUCH, AND IRRESPECTIVE OF WHETHER ANY SUCH CLAIMS ARISE OUT OF CONTRACT, TORT, VIOLATION OF LAW OR REGULATIONS, OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS AND REMEDIES UNDER THE CREDIT AGREEMENT OR OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS, AND NEGOTIATION AND EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT.
RELEASE OF CLAIMS
                    SECTION 13.  . 
Hedge Bank Forbearance
                     (a)     Upon the effectiveness of this Agreement, each of the Hedge Banks hereby agrees to forbear from exercising any of its rights under the applicable Interest Rate Agreement (other than the termination thereof) until the occurrence and during the continuance of a Borrower Event of Default.
                     (b)     The forbearance set forth in clause (a) above is limited and shall not be deemed (i) to prejudice any right or remedy which any Hedge Bank may now or in the future have under or in connection with the Interest Rate Agreements or (ii) a waiver or forbearance in any respect of and after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Borrower Event of Default.
                     (c)     Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to modify or waive any of the Hedge Banks rights with respect to defaults under the Interest Rate Agreements.
                    SECTION 14.  .  The commitment of the LC Bank or any of the GenHoldings Lenders to issue or participate in a Letter of Credit to fulfill the Borrowers obligation to fund the Debt Service Reserve Account in an amount equal to the DSR Required Balance is hereby terminated.
Debt Service Reserve Letter of Credit
                    SECTION 15.  .  The governing law, jurisdictional, venue, service of process and jury trial waiver provisions set forth in Sections 11.6, 11.14 and 11.15 of the Credit Agreement shall apply to any suit, action or proceeding related to this Agreement.
GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
                     the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,

TABLE OF CONTENTS
          THIS SECOND OMNIBUS RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of December 2002, is entered into among LA PALOMA GENERATING COMPANY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ""); LA PALOMA GENERATING TRUST LTD., a Delaware statutory trust (the ""), WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, in its individual capacity (the "") and as trustee of the Owner (the ""); the LENDERS, INVESTORS and INTEREST HEDGE PARTIES; SOCIETE GENERALE, as issuer of the DSR L/C and the RCE L/C under the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement (as defined below); CITIBANK, N.A., as issuer of the Working Capital L/Cs under the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement (as defined below); CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders and the Investors (in such capacity, the ""); CITIBANK, N.A., as secur ity agent for the Creditors (in such capacity, the ""); the PRIORITY LENDERS; CITIBANK, N.A., as agent for the Priority Lenders (in such capacity, the ""); and PG&E NATIONAL ENERGY GROUP, INC. (""), a Delaware corporation.           WHEREAS, the Company, the Owner, the Trust Company, the Trustee, the Lenders party thereto, the Investors party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent are parties to the Participation Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, the "");           WHEREAS, the Owner, the Tranche A Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Tranche A Loan Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, the "");           WHEREAS, the Owner, the Tranche B Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Tranche B Loan Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, the "");           WHEREAS, the Company, Citibank, N.A., as the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Working Capital Lenders party thereto, Socit Gnrale, as the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the L/C Banks party thereto and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, the "");           WHEREAS, the Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company, the Lenders party thereto, the Investors party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent are parties to the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, the "");           WHEREAS, the Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent are parties to the Security Deposit Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2000 (as amended, the "");           WHEREAS, pursuant to the Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents, the Company and the other parties thereto agreed, among other things, to the terms and conditions of the construction and lease financing of the Project;           WHEREAS, an Incipient NEG Downgrade Event with respect to NEG occurred on August 5, 2002, and pursuant to Section 5.1(x) of the Participation Agreement, the Company became obligated to pay or cause to be paid to the Security Agent for deposit into the Construction Account all Project Costs and/or Scheduled Debt Service as such amounts became due and payable;           WHEREAS, the Company has advised the Security Agent and the Lenders that it will no longer comply with such payment obligation (and the Lenders have reserved all rights with respect thereto);           WHEREAS, additional funding is required to complete construction of the Project as well as to pay for general working capital needs and to finance draws on letters of credit issued to support gas supply and transportation arrangements and power sales arrangements;           WHEREAS, the Company has, in light of existing Defaults and Events of Default, requested (i) certain amendments, consents and waivers with respect to the Participation Agreement and certain other Operative Documents and (ii) new financing to fund payments for Project Costs and certain debt service obligations; and           WHEREAS, the Priority Lenders have agreed to provide financing to (i) fund the completion of the Project and (ii) fund certain other Project Costs and general working capital needs, and the existing Creditors have agreed to amend the Participation Agreement and certain other Operative Documents in connection with such new financing, including the amendment of certain intercreditor provisions.           NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:                     Section 1. Definitions. 1.01 Except as otherwise defined in this Agreement, terms defined in Annex A to the Participation Agreement are used herein (including in the recitals hereto) as defined therein (and the principles of interpretation set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement shall apply to such terms). The following terms used herein shall have the following respective meanings:"" means, at any time, Priority Lenders holding at least in excess of 75% of the aggregate amount of the Priority Commitments outstanding at such time (or, in the case of Priority Commitments that have expired or been terminated, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Loans made under such Priority Commitments and outstanding at such time).           "" means, with respect to a Debtor, a case commenced under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code where such Person is the debtor and debtor-in-possession.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(f) of this Agreement.           "" means the United States Bankruptcy Court having jurisdiction over the Case from time to time.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of this Agreement.           "" means the Company or the Owner.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 13 of this Agreement.           "" means the right of the Company to receive payments of (i) EPC Buydown Damages (including recoveries thereof from draws on any letter of credit issued under an amended and restated EPC Contract) and (ii) other buydown amounts received with respect to performance related liquidated damages.           "" means the Tranche A Loans, the Tranche B Loans, the Investor Contributions and the Settlement Amounts existing on the Effective Date, after giving effect to the capitalization of unpaid amounts with respect to such Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Investor Contributions and Settlement Amounts as provided for in Section 6.7(c)(iv) of the Participation Agreement, Section 2.8(e) of the Tranche A Loan Agreement, Section 2.8(d) of the Tranche B Loan Agreement and Sections 11(b)(i) and (c)(i) of this Agreement, respectively.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.14 of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.12(b) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of this Agreement.           "" means, collectively, Roll-Up Holders and Residual Holders in their capacities as such.           "" means Roll-Up Obligations and Residual Obligations.           "" means the amount of any claims of the Primed Creditors in respect of the Primed Obligations which are determined to constitute an unsecured claim (or equivalent) in a Proceeding.           "" means all Collateral other than Excluded Collateral.           "" means the financing provided pursuant to the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" means the amount of any claims of the Priority Lenders in respect of the Priority Obligations which are determined to constitute an unsecured claim (or equivalent) in a Proceeding.           "" means, with respect to the Company or any other Debtor, any case, proceeding or other action by or against under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, agreement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.06(a) of this Agreement.           "" means, at any time, Roll-Up Holders holding at least in excess of 50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Roll-Up Loans outstanding at such time.           "" means the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Residual Holders (or a sub-agent of the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Residual Holders appointed in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement for purposes of Section 10.02 of this Agreement).           "" means holders of Residual Obligations in their respective capacities as such.           "" means Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Investor Contributions and Settlement Amounts that, as of the date of determination, have not been subject to the "roll-up" provision of Section 9 of this Agreement. The Residual Loans held by each Priority Lender or other Creditor as of the Effective Date are set forth in the column entitled "Current Residual Loans" on Schedule I to this Agreement on the Effective Date and shall, from time to time after the Effective Date, be set forth on Schedule I to this Agreement as updated in accordance with Section 9 of this Agreement.           "" means, at any time, all indebtedness, financial liabilities and obligations of the Company and the Owner, of whatsoever nature and howsoever evidenced (including, but not limited to, principal, interest, fees, reimbursement obligations, penalties, indemnities and legal and other expenses, whether due after acceleration or otherwise) to the Creditors pursuant to the Operative Documents and arising under or in connection with the Residual Loans.           "" means all Collateral, subject to the provisions of Section 10.01 of this Agreement."" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.02(f) of this Agreement.           "" means the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Roll-Up Holders (or a sub-agent of the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Roll-Up Holders appointed in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement for purposes of Section 10.02 of this Agreement).           "" means holders of Roll-Up Obligations in their respective capacities as such.           "" means Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Investor Contributions and Settlement Amounts that, as of the date of determination, have been designated as or have become Roll-Up Loans in accordance with Section 9 of this Agreement. The Roll-Up Loans held by each Priority Lender as of the Effective Date are set forth in the column entitled "Current Roll-Up Loans" on Schedule I to this Agreement on the Effective Date and shall, from time to time after the Effective Date, be set forth on Schedule I to this Agreement as updated in accordance with Section 9 of this Agreement.           "" means the amount of any claims of the Roll-Up Holders in respect of the Roll-Up Obligations which are determined to constitute an unsecured claim (or equivalent) in a Proceeding.           "" means, at any time, all indebtedness, financial liabilities and obligations of the Company and the Owner, of whatsoever nature and howsoever evidenced (including, but not limited to, principal, interest, fees, reimbursement obligations, penalties, indemnities and legal and other expenses, whether due after acceleration or otherwise) to the Creditors pursuant to the Operative Documents and arising under or in connection with the Roll-Up Loans.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.02(l) of this Agreement.           "" means the Tranche A Settlement Amounts and the Tranche B Settlement Amounts.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.13 of this Agreement.           "" means, at any time, Priority Lenders holding at least in excess of 66 2/3% of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Commitments outstanding at such time (or, in the case of Priority Commitments that have expired or been terminated, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Loans made under such Priority Commitments and outstanding at such time).           "" means, collectively, all of the Owner's and Company's payment obligations under each Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract as of the date of the termination thereof, after giving effect to the termination thereof.           "" means, collectively, all of the Owner's and Company's payment obligations under each Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract as of the date of the termination thereof, after giving effect to the termination thereof.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.01(l) of this Agreement.           1.02 . In addition to the Rules of Usage set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement which automatically apply to this Agreement , any reference in the Operative Documents, Project Documents or Security Documents to any provision which has been amended by this Agreement, shall be deemed to be a reference to such provision as amended hereby.           .  The Participation Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           2.01 Section 6.5(a)(ii) of the Participation Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:           "(ii) . The proceeds of the NEG Guarantee or a Substitute Credit Support Instrument remaining after payment of all amounts due in respect of the Tranche A Loans shall be applied by the Security Agent to prepay the Tranche B Loans and the Settlement Amounts on a pro rata basis; that (i) with respect to prepayments to be made to a Tranche B Lender, prepayments shall be applied (x) ratably to such Tranche B Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Loans held by such Tranche B Lender (without regard as to whether, at the time of payment, such Tranche B Loans constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (y) with respect to such Tranche B Lender, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Tranche B Lender's Residual Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans and thereafter to such Tranche B Lender's Roll-Up Loans consisting o f Tranche B Loans and (ii) with respect to prepayments to be made to an Interest Hedge Party, payments shall be applied (x) ratably to such Interest Hedge Party on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Settlement Amounts held by such Interest Hedge Party (without regard as to whether, at the time of prepayment, such Settlement Amounts constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (y) with respect to such Interest Hedge Party, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Interest Hedge Party's Residual Loans consisting of Settlement Amounts and thereafter to such Interest Hedge Party's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Settlement Amounts."           2.02 Clause (iv) of Section 6.7(c) of the Participation Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clauses (iv), (v) and (vi):           "(iv) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid Investor Yield on outstanding amounts of Investor Contributions (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to such Investor Contributions) will be capitalized and added to such outstanding amount of Investor Contributions prior to giving effect to the "roll-up" election pursuant to Section 9 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           (v) With respect to Investor Contributions that constitute Roll-Up Loans:           (A) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, Investor Yield will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the outstanding amount of such Investor Contributions that constitute Roll-Up Loans.           (B) On and after the Completion Date, Investor Yield will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (i) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full Investor Yield due on such Interest Date on Investor Contributions that constitute Roll-Up Loans, the portion of such Investor Yield that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the outstanding amount of such Investor Contributions and (ii) each payment of such Investor Contributions shall be accompanied by accrued Investor Yield to the date of such payment on the amount of such Investor Contributions paid.           (vi) With respect to Investor Contributions that constitute Residual Loans:           (A) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, Investor Yield will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the outstanding amount of such Investor Contributions that constitute Residual Loans.           (B) On and after the Completion Date, Investor Yield will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (i) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full Investor Yield due on such Interest Date on Investor Contributions that constitute Residual Loans, the portion of such Investor Yield that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the outstanding amount of such Investor Contributions and (ii) each payment of such Investor Contributions shall be accompanied by accrued Investor Yield to the date of such payment on the amount of such Investor Contributions paid."           er:           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" means the Priority Working Capital L/C Account and the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" means the cash waterfall set forth in Section 5.13(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in the Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" means the Priority Credit and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002, among the Company, the Owner, Citibank, N.A., as Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Priority Lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent and Citibank, N.A., as Priority Agent thereunder.           "" means the lenders party to the Priority Credit Agreement as "Priority Lenders".           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" means the cash waterfall set forth in Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" means the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002, among the Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company, each Tranche A Lender, each Tranche B Lender, each Investor, each Interest Hedge Party, the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Priority Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Priority Agent and NEG.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.           2.09 Annex A of the Participation Agreement is hereby further amended as follows:           (i) The definition of "Applicable Margin" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following definition:           "" means 5.75%.           (ii) The definition of "Imposition" is amended by deleting the phrase "Lender Holder or Investor" in clause (iii) thereof and replacing such phrase with "Lender, Priority Lender or Investor".           (iii) The title of the definition "Lender and Investor Obligations" is hereby amended to read "Lender Obligations".           (iv) The definition of "Operating Costs" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following definition:           "" means, for any period, cash amounts incurred and paid by the Company or the Owner for the operation and maintenance of the Project or any portion thereof, including premiums for insurance policies, fuel supply and fuel transportation costs, costs of obtaining any other materials, supplies or services for the Project, utilities, costs of maintaining, renewing and amending Governmental Actions, franchise, licensing, property, real estate, sales and excise taxes (excluding federal or state income taxes), general and administrative expenses, employee salaries, wages and other employment-related costs, business management and administrative services fees, costs required to be paid by the Company or the Owner under any Operative Document (other than Priority Scheduled Debt Service, Scheduled Debt Service and other amounts due to the Lenders, Investors and Interest Hedge Parties in respect of the Loans, Investor Contributions or In terest Hedge Obligations, respectively) or Project Contract (other than Project Costs and Subject Project Costs), legal and other transaction costs, expenses and fees incurred by the Creditors or at their direction with marketing the Project for sale, and all other fees payable to the Priority Lenders (other than amounts included in Priority Scheduled Debt Service), necessary capital expenditures and all other fees and expenses necessary for the continued operation and maintenance of the Project and the conduct of the business of the Company.           (v) The definition of "Operative Documents" is amended by (A) deleting the word "and" at the end of line (xviii), (B) replacing the period at the end of line (xix) with a semicolon and (C) inserting at the end thereof, the following new lines: "(xx) the Priority Credit Agreement; and (xxi) the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement."           (vi) The definition of "Project Budget" is amended by inserting the phrase "and the Priority Credit Agreement." at the end thereof.           (vii) The definition of "Project Contracts" is amended by (A) deleting the word "and" at the end of line (xxvi), (B) replacing the period at the end of line (xxvii) with "; and" and (C) inserting at the end thereof, the following new line: "(xxviii) any Additional Project Contract approved by Required Priority Lenders."           2.10 Schedule 1 to the Participation Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           (a) The section entitled "Financing Terms" is hereby deleted.           (b) The section entitled "Notices" is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the notice information set forth on Exhibit C to this Agreement.           .  The Tranche A Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           3.01 Clause (e) of Section 2.8 of the Tranche A Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clauses (e), (f) and (g):           "(e) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche A Loans (and all other amounts due and owing (other than principal) with respect to the Tranche A Loans) will be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding under this Agreement prior to giving effect to the "roll-up" election pursuant to Section 9 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           (f) With respect to Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans:           (i) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans.           (ii) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.           (g) With respect to Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans:           (i) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans.           (ii) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount."           3.02 The second sentence of Section 2.11(a) of the Tranche A Loan Agreement is hereby amended by inserting, at the end thereof, the following proviso:           "; that (i) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Roll-Up Loans which are Tranche A Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche A Loans which constitute Roll-Up Loans then held by the Tranche A Lenders and (ii) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Residual Loans which are Tranche A Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche A Loans which constitute Residual Loans then held by the Tranche A Lenders."           .  The Tranche B Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           4.01 Clause (d) of Section 2.8 of the Tranche B Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clauses (d), (e) and (f):           "(d) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche B Loans (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to the Tranche B Loans) will be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding under this Agreement prior to giving effect to the "roll-up" election pursuant to Section 9 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           (e) With respect to Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans:           (i) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans.           (ii) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.           (f) With respect to Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans:           (i) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans.           (ii) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount."           4.02 The second sentence of Section 2.11(a) of the Tranche B Loan Agreement is hereby amended by inserting, at the end thereof, the following proviso:           "; that (i) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Roll-Up Loans which are Tranche B Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche B Loans which constitute Roll-Up Loans then held by the Tranche B Lenders and (ii) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Residual Loans which are Tranche B Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche B Loans which constitute Residual Loans then held by the Tranche B Lenders."           .           5.01 The following defined terms are hereby inserted into Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement in the appropriate alphabetical order:           "" means the L/C Reimbursement Principal Accrual Account.           "" means the Working Capital Principal Accrual Account.           "" means, on any Interest Date, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the total aggregate undrawn face amount of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs outstanding on such Interest Date (b) the amount on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account on such Interest Date after giving effect to any transfers (i) into such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(b)(i) of this Agreement and (ii) from such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(a)(iii) of this Agreement.           "" means, on any Interest Date, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the total aggregate amount of Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate undrawn face amount of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs (ii) the amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account after giving effect to any transfers (A) from such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(b)(i) of this Agreement and (B) into such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(a)(iii) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(a) of this Agreement.           5.02 Section 2.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso after the second sentence of such section:           "; , that the Security Agent shall hold and safeguard the Cash Collateralization Accounts (and the cash, cash equivalents, instruments, investments and other securities on deposit therein) during the term of this Agreement and shall treat the cash, cash equivalents, instruments, investments and other securities in the Cash Collateralization Accounts as pledged by the Company and the Owner (to the extent of their respective rights and interests therein) to the Security Agent for the exclusive benefit of the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent, to be held by the Security Agent in trust for the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent in accordance with the provisions hereof and of the other Security Documents."           5.03 Clause (f) of Section 3.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase "Project Costs" and replacing it with the phrase "Subject Project Costs".           5.04 Section 4.1(b) of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the term "Working Capital Loans" and replacing such term with "Priority Loans".           5.05 Section 4.2 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           (a) each occurrence of the term "Conversion Date" shall be replaced with the term "Completion Date"; and           (b) clause (d) is hereby amended by deleting the term "Working Capital Loans" and replacing such term with "Priority Loans".           5.06 Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:           "SECTION 5.1 . After the Completion Date, the Security Agent shall, on each Interest Date, transfer from the Revenue Account the following amounts in the following order of priority:           , to the Persons specified in the related Request Letter delivered in connection with such Interest Date, (i) the amounts specified in the related Request Letter to be the amount of Operating Costs then due and payable or payable prior to the next Interest Date and (ii) the bonuses payable to the EPC Contractor (but only to the extent such bonuses do not constitute Subject Project Costs) then due and payable or payable prior to the next Interest Date;           , (i) to the Security Agent, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Security Agent, (ii) to the Administrative Agent, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Administrative Agent, (iii) to the Trust Company, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Trustee and (iv) to the Priority Agent, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Priority Agent;           , to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders (i) an amount equal to the amount of all interest on the Priority Loans and Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations which is then due and payable and (ii) an amount equal to the amount of all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts then due and payable under, or in respect of, the Priority Credit Agreement;           , (i) , to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of all Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations then due and payable for the payment thereof and (ii) , to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Priority Working Capital Loans for the prepayment thereof (or, in the event that such Interest Date is the Priority Maturity Date, the payment thereof);           , (i) , into the Priority Working Capital L/C Account, an amount equal to the then-applicable Required L/C Deposit Amount and (ii) , into the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account, an amount equal to the then-applicable Required Commitment Deposit Amount;           , to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Priority Construction Loans for the prepayment thereof (or, in the event that such Interest Date is the Priority Maturity Date, the payment thereof);, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders holding Roll-Up Loans, an amount equal to the amount of all interest on the Roll-Up Loans which is then due and payable;           , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders holding Roll-Up Loans, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Roll-Up Loans for the payment thereof;           , to the Administrative Agent (i) for the account of the Tranche B Lenders, an amount equal to the sum of (x) interest on the Tranche B Loans that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable and (y) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) then payable to such Tranche B Lenders on account of all Tranche B Loans, (ii) for the account of the Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Parties, an amount equal to the amount of all interest on and outstanding principal of the Tranche B Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans and (iii) for the account of the Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties, an amount equal to the interest on the Tranche A Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable to such Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties;           , to the Administrative Agent (i) for the account of the Tranche B Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Loans that are Residual Loans for the payment thereof and (ii) for the account of the Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche A Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans owed to such Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties for the payment thereof;           , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Investors, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the amount of all Investor Yield then due and payable on the Investor Contributions that are Residual Loans (ii) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) on all Investor Contributions;, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Investors, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Investor Contributions that are Residual Loans for the payment thereof;           , so long as the Distribution Conditions are satisfied on such Interest Date (other than the condition that requires that the Tranche A Loans have been paid in full), to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Tranche A Lenders, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the interest on the Tranche A Loans that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable (ii) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) then payable to such Tranche A Lenders on account of all Tranche A Loans;           , so long as the Distribution Conditions are satisfied on such Interest Date (other than the condition that requires that the Tranche A Loans have been paid in full), to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Tranche A Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche A Loans that are Residual Loans for the payment thereof; and           , to each Creditor, any fee, cost, expense, indemnity or other amount payable to such Creditor on such date pursuant to the Operative Documents (other than on account of amounts identified in clauses through above).           In the event any amounts contemplated by clause above are due and payable on any date which is not an Interest Date, the Security Agent shall make transfers on account of such amounts in accordance with Section 5.13(a) of this Agreement.           In the event any amounts contemplated by clause above are due and payable on any date which is not an Interest Date, the Security Agent shall make the transfers contemplated by clause as directed in writing by the Administrative Agent from the Revenue Account on such date.           To the extent that there shall be insufficient funds in the Revenue Account to pay the Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations when due on any Interest Date as provided in this Section 5.1, the Security Agent shall make such transfers with funds withdrawn from the Priority Working Capital L/C Account as provided in Section 5.2(a)(i) of this Agreement.           Any amount not transferred to another Account on any date shall be retained in the Revenue Account pending further application pursuant to this Agreement."           "SECTION 5.2. .           (a) .           (i) On any Interest Date, if the cash on deposit in the Revenue Account is insufficient to pay, in full, all Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations then due and unpaid in accordance with the Revenue Account Waterfall, then the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Priority Agent, transfer funds on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account (if any) to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the amount of such deficiency and (B) the amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account.           (ii) In the event that payment of a Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation is due on any date other than an Interest Date and the conditions to the borrowing of Priority Working Capital Loans set out in Section 4.3 of the Priority Credit Agreement have not been satisfied or waived as of such due date, then the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Priority Agent, transfer funds on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account (if any) to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation that is then due and (B) the amount then on deposit in such account.           (iii) If, on any date, the aggregate amount on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account exceeds the aggregate undrawn face amount of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs then outstanding, the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Priority Agent, transfer from the Priority Working Capital L/C Account to the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account an amount equal to such excess.           (iv) Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 5.2(a)(iv)), the Security Agent shall not transfer funds on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account to make any payments under the Liquidation Waterfall, and the provisions of this Section 5.2(a) shall remain in effect until the expiry of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs and the payment in full of all Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations.           (b) .           (i) If, on any date prior to the end of the Priority Commitment Period, the Priority Agent notifies the Security Agent that the amount on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account exceeds the sum of (A) the Available Priority Commitments with respect to Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments as of such date (B) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Priority Working Capital Loans as of such date, then the Security Agent, acting at the direction of the Priority Agent, shall transfer such excess from the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account to the Priority Working Capital L/C Account.           (ii) On the earlier to occur of (A) the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated and (B) the Priority Maturity Date, the Security Agent, acting at the direction of the Priority Agent, shall transfer to the Priority Agent from the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the total aggregate amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account and (2) the aggregate principal amount of Priority Working Capital Loans then due and payable together with all accrued interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due in respect thereof. To the extent that, after giving effect to the transfer contemplated by this Section 5.2(b)(ii) there shall remain any amount on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account, the Security Agent shall transfer such amount to the Revenue Account for application in accordance with the terms of Section 5.1 of this Agreement.           (iii) In the event that the Security Agent receives (A) a Notice of Action specifying that action be taken pursuant to Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement or (B) written notice from the Administrative Agent that the Construction Agency Agreement has been terminated pursuant to Section 2.6 or 6.3 of the Construction Agency Agreement or the Lease has been terminated pursuant to Section 12.1 or 13.5 of the Lease (other than, in the event that, in connection with any such termination of the Construction Agency Agreement or termination of the Lease, as the case may be, the Company has assumed all of the Owner's obligations in respect of the Tranche B Loans and Investor Contributions pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Participation Agreement), the Security Agent shall, prior to making any transfers under Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement, transfer to the Priority Agent from the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account for the payment of Priority Working C apital Loans together with all accrued interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due in respect thereof an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the total aggregate amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account and (2) the aggregate principal amount of Priority Working Capital Loans then due and payable together with all accrued interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due in respect thereof. To the extent that, after giving effect to the transfer contemplated by this Section 5.2(b)(iii) there shall remain any amount on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account, the Security Agent shall transfer such amount to the Revenue Account for application in accordance with the terms of Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement.           (iv) Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents, except to the extent provided in Section 5.2(b)(iii) above, the Security Agent shall not transfer funds on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account to make any payments under the Liquidation Waterfall.           5.08 Section 5.4 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:           "SECTION 5.4. . On the Waterfall Commencement Date, the Security Agent shall transfer all amounts on deposit in the Construction Account in the following order of priority:           , to each Person specified in the related Priority Construction Requisition, the amount of Subject Project Costs specified to be paid to such Person;           , into the Final Completion Account, an amount equal to the Final Completion Amount; and           , into the Revenue Account, the balance, and, thereupon, the Security Agent shall make the transfers contemplated pursuant to Section 5.1 of this Agreement.           After making all such transfers, the Security Agent shall close the Construction Account."           5.09 Section 5.5 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           (a) Clauses (a) is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clause:           "(a) On each PCL Funding Date (or on the dates thereafter specified in the related Priority Construction Requisition), upon the transfer into the Construction Account of the proceeds of any requested Priority Construction Loans, the Security Agent shall transfer from the Construction Account to each Person specified in the related Priority Construction Requisition the amount of Subject Project Costs specified to be paid to such Person."           (b) Clause (c) is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clause:           "(c) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Post-Effective Event of Default, the Security Agent shall make transfers from the Construction Account as directed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders for the purpose of (i) paying Subject Project Costs and Operating Costs or (ii) applying amounts on deposit therein in accordance with Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement."           5.10 Section 5.11 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:           "SECTION 5.11. . The Security Agent shall, upon the written instructions of the Priority Agent, transfer from the Final Completion Account the amount certified in the related Final Completion Account Requisition to be the amount of Subject Project Costs and bonuses payable to the EPC Contractor which are then due and payable. Upon Final Completion, any amounts remaining in the Final Completion Account shall be deposited into the Revenue Account, and upon deposit of such amounts the Security Agent shall close the Final Completion Account."           5.11 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting clause (a) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:           "(a) . The Company shall not have the right to issue a notice pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement or otherwise direct the transfer of funds from any Account, subject to the provisions of this Section 5.13(a). The Company shall issue Request Letters in respect of the transfers and disbursements contemplated by Section 5.13(b) of this Agreement, and the Security Agent shall (i) promptly deliver a copy of each such Request Letter to the Priority Agent and Priority Lenders and (ii) make such transfers and disbursements contemplated by the related Request Letter unless otherwise directed by the Required Priority Lenders. The Company may issue supplemental Request Letters (each, a "") in respect of transfers and disbursements for amounts contemplated by clause of Section 5.1 of this Agreement that are due and payable on a date which is not an Interest Date and that were not contemplated by the then-applicable Request Letter, and the Security Agent shall, upon confirmation by the Administrative Agent and unless otherwise directed by the Required Priority Lenders, make such transfers and disbursements contemplated by any such Supplemental Request Letter."           5.12 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting clause (b) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:           "(b) . Until the Security Agent receives a Notice of Action directing that action be taken pursuant to Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement, the Security Agent shall make the specified transfers contemplated by priorities through of Section 5.1 of this Agreement and the specified transfers contemplated by Section 5.2 of this Agreement."           5.13 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (c) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:           "(c) . Subject to the first sentence of Section 5.13(e) of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.2(a) and (b) and Section 5.19(b) of this Agreement, at any time after the Security Agent receives (i) a Notice of Action specifying that action be taken pursuant to this Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement or (ii) written notice from the Administrative Agent that the Construction Agency Agreement has been terminated pursuant to Section 2.6 or 6.3 of the Construction Agency Agreement or the Lease has been terminated pursuant to Section 12.1 or 13.5 of the Lease (other than, in the event that, in connection with any such termination of the Construction Agency Agreement or termination of the Lease, as the case may be, the Company has assumed all of the Owner's obligations in respect of the Tranche B Loans and Investor Contributions pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Participation Agreement), the Security Agent shal l transfer all amounts available in the Accounts in the following order of priority:           , (i) to the Security Agent for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Security Agent, (ii) to the Priority Agent for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Priority Agent, (iii) to the Administrative Agent for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Administrative Agent and (iv) to the Trust Company for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Trustee under the Operative Documents,           , to the Priority Agent for distribution (i) to each Priority Lender, an amount equal to the sum of (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Priority Construction Loans, Priority Working Capital Loans and Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations made or held by such Priority Lender (B) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (C) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts then payable to such Priority Lender under, or in respect of, the Priority Credit Agreement and (ii) into the Priority Working Capital L/C Account, an amount equal to the excess of (A) the aggregate undrawn face amount under all Priority Working Capital L/Cs over (B) the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account;           , to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Priority Lenders with Roll-Up Loans outstanding, an amount equal to the sum of (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Roll-Up Loans made by such Creditor (B) (B) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (C) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts then payable to such Creditor in respect of such Roll-Up Loans;           , to the Administrative Agent for distribution (i) to each Tranche A Lender and each Tranche B Lender, the outstanding principal amount of Loans that are Residual Loans made by such Creditor and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and (ii) to the Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties and the Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Parties, the Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon;           , to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Investor, the outstanding principal amount of its Investor Contributions and all accrued and unpaid Investor Yield thereon;           , to each Creditor, all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts payable to such Creditor pursuant to the Operative Documents (other than on account of amounts identified in clauses through above); and           , any surplus then remaining shall be paid to the Administrative Agent for distribution as directed by the Creditors, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.           5.14 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (e) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:           "(e) . The proceeds of (1) any payment made pursuant to Section 2.01 of the NEG Guarantee or (2) any payment made pursuant to a Substitute Credit Support Instrument, shall be applied promptly upon receipt thereof by the Security Agent to the payment in whole of the Tranche A Loans as required by Section 6.5(a)(i) of the Participation Agreement, together with all accrued interest and other amounts due in respect of the Tranche A Loans. In the event that any proceeds of such payment under the NEG Guarantee or the Substitute Credit Support Instrument, as the case may be, remain after payment in full of all amounts due in respect of the Tranche A Loans, such proceeds shall be applied by the Security Agent in accordance with Section 6.5(a)(ii) of the Participation Agreement."           5.15 Section 5.16 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso at the end of the second sentience:           "; that the transfers made pursuant to clauses and of Section 5.1 of this Agreement shall not be deemed to share the same level of priority, but shall have the priority set forth in such clauses and , respectively."           5.16 Section 9.6 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the phrase ", the Required Priority Lenders" after the term "Required Lenders".           5.17 Exhibit B to the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting each occurrence of the phrase "Project Costs" and replacing it with the phrase "Subject Project Costs".                      6.01 Section 1.1 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           (a) the definition of "Creditors" is amended by inserting the phrase ", the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent" at the end thereof.           (b) the definition of "Participants" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following definition:           "" means the Lenders, the Investors and the Priority Lenders.           (c) clause (b) of the definition of "Required Participants" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clause:           "(b) in all other cases, at any time prior to the payment in full of all Secured Obligations owed to the Lenders and the Priority Lenders, the Required Lenders and Required Priority Lenders, and, thereafter, the Required Investors."           6.02 Section 3.8 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following phrase after the term "Participant":           ", "Priority Lender", "Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer""           6.03 Section 8.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following new paragraphs at the end thereof:           "The Priority Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in the Priority Credit Agreement) delivered to it pursuant the Priority Credit Agreement and a register (the "") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Priority Lenders and the Priority Commitment of, and principal amount of the Priority Loans owing to, each Priority Lender from time to time. The entries in the Priority Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Company, the Owner and the Creditors shall treat each Person whose name is recorded as a Priority Lender in the Priority Register as the owner of the Priority Loan and any Priority Note evidencing such Priority Loan recorded therein for all purposes of this Agreement, the Priority Credit Agreement and any other Operative Document. The Priority Register shall be av ailable for inspection by such parties at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.           The Priority Agent shall also maintain a register (the "") for the recordation of the amounts of, and character or type of, each Roll-Up Loan held by each Priority Lender. The entries in the Roll-Up Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Company, the Owner and the Creditors shall treat each Person whose name is recorded as a Roll-Up Lender in the Roll-Up Register as the owner of the Roll-Up Loan recorded therein for all purposes of this Agreement, the Priority Credit Agreement and any other Operative Document. The Roll-Up Register shall be available for inspection by such parties at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice."                      7.01 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement or any other provision of any other Operative Document to the contrary, but subject to the proviso set out below and the other provisions of this Section 7.01, any amounts required to be used to prepay Secured Obligations as provided in Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement shall be first used to prepay the following Priority Obligations or provide cash collateral in respect of outstanding Priority Working Capital L/Cs and Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments in the following order of priority:           (a) , to pay Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations then due and unpaid together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon;           (b) , to prepay outstanding Priority Working Capital Loans together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon;           (c) , to provide cash collateral with respect to Priority Working Capital L/Cs through the deposit into the Priority Working Capital L/C Account of an amount equal to the excess of: (i) the total aggregate undrawn face amount of Priority Working Capital L/Cs then outstanding (ii) the amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account;           (d) , to provide cash collateral with respect to the Priority Working Capital Commitments through the deposit into the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account of an amount equal to the excess of (i) the total Priority Working Capital Commitments over (ii) the sum of (A) the total aggregate undrawn face amount of Priority Working Capital L/Cs then outstanding plus (B) the amount then on deposit in the Priority Working Capital Commitment Account; and           (e) , to prepay Priority Construction Loans together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon;            that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any proceeds of the NEG Guarantee and the EPC Buydown Damages (and other buydown amounts received with respect to performance related liquidated damages) shall be applied in accordance with Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement.           After making the prepayment referred to in clauses (a) through (e) above, any remaining amounts required to be used to prepay Secured Obligations shall be applied, with respect to each tranche or class of Secured Obligations, first to such portion of such tranche or class that consists of Roll-Up Loans and then to such portion which consists of Residual Loans.           7.02 Any proceeds of the NEG Guarantee shall be applied in accordance with Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement and Section 5.13(e) of the Security Deposit Agreement; that prepayments shall be applied (a) ratably to each Tranche A Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche A Loans held by such Tranche A Lender (without regard as to whether, at the time of prepayment, such Tranche A Loans constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (b) with respect to each Tranche A Lender, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Tranche A Lender's Residual Loans consisting of Tranche A Loans and thereafter to such Tranche A Lender's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Tranche A Loans.           7.03 All EPC Buydown Damages (including the proceeds of any letter of credit issued in connection with the EPC Contract) and other buydown amounts received with respect to performance related liquidated damages shall be applied in accordance Section 6.5(a)(iii) of the Participation Agreement; that (a) with respect to prepayments to be made to a Tranche B Lender, prepayments shall be applied (i) ratably to such Tranche B Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Loans held by such Tranche B Lender (without regard as to whether, at the time of payment, such Tranche B Loans constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (ii) with respect to such Tranche B Lender, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Tranche B Lender's Residual Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans and thereafter to such Tranche B Lender's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans and (b) with respect to prepayments to be made to an Investor, payments shall be applied (i) ratably to such Investor on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Investor Contributions held by such Investor (without regard as to whether, at the time of prepayment, such Investor Contributions constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (ii) with respect to such Investor, such payment is to be applied first to such Investor's Residual Loans consisting of Investor Contributions and thereafter to such Investor's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Investor Contributions.           . Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 8), the Company may make (or require the Owner to make) optional prepayments in accordance with Section 6.5(b) of the Participation Agreement only after such time as (a) the Priority Loans and Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations have been repaid or prepaid in full and (b) the Priority Working Capital L/Cs and Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments have been cash collateralized in full.                      9.01 The parties hereto hereby agree that:           (a) each Priority Lender shall be entitled to select three dollars of its Existing Obligations to be designated as Roll-Up Loans for:           (i) each dollar of Priority Working Capital Loan Commitment committed by such Priority Lender as of the Effective Date; and           (ii) each dollar of Priority Construction Loans made during the Priority Commitment Period with respect to the Priority Construction Loan Commitments in accordance with the Roll-Up Selection identified by such Priority Lender on Schedule I to this Agreement;           (b) interest capitalized on Roll-Up Loans in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents shall increase the principal amount of such Roll-Up Loans in respect of which interest was capitalized;           (c) any assignment of Priority Commitments and/or Priority Loans under the Priority Credit Agreement shall adjust the Roll-Up Loans held by the assigning Priority Lender and the purchasing Priority Lender as set forth in Schedule I to the Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in the Priority Credit Agreement) executed in connection with such assignment;           (d) if a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility is executed as contemplated under Section 10.06 of this Agreement and, pursuant to such DIP Facility the DIP Lenders are permitted to identify certain Residual Obligations to be treated as Roll-Up Loans hereunder, such amounts shall be treated as Roll-Up Loans hereunder; and           (e) if a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility described in the foregoing clause (d) is in effect, then any assignment of commitments and/or loans under such DIP Facility shall adjust the Roll-Up Loans held by the assigning DIP Lender and purchasing DIP Lender as identified in the instrument of assignment giving effect to such assignment.           9.02 Notwithstanding any designation or deemed designation of any Existing Obligations consisting of Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Investor Contributions or Settlement Amounts as Roll-Up Loans, such Existing Obligations shall maintain their character as Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Investor Contributions or Settlement Amounts under the Operative Documents.           9.03 On the date that is five Business Days following each Interest Date, the Administrative Agent shall (a) in consultation with the Priority Agent, update Schedule I to this Agreement to reflect each Creditor's current Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans as of such corresponding Interest Date and (b) distribute such updated Schedule I to each Creditor; that the obligation referred to in this Section 9.03 shall commence in connection with the Interest Date occurring in January, 2003.           9.04 Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 9.04), no assignment of Roll-Up Loans or Residual Loans may be made unless made in connection with an assignment of (a) Priority Loans and/or Priority Commitments under the Priority Credit Agreement and/or (b) commitments and/or loans under a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility executed as contemplated under Section 10.06 of this Agreement.                                 (a) Notwithstanding any provision contained herein, in the Priority Credit Agreement or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary but subject to Section 7.03 of this Agreement, any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created as security for the Primed Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Primed Obligations and without regard to whether there shall be a Lien on such asset securing the Priority Obligations or whether any such Lien shall be perfected or avoidable) and all of the Administrative Agent's and the Primed Creditors' rights and remedies under such Liens (other than any Lien on Excluded Collateral) are hereby expressly made, and at all times will be, subject and subordinate in all respects to any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created (x) as security for the Priority Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Priority Obligations), or (y) as security for any of the Priority Lenders', the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's or the Priority Agent's claims (i) under the Priority Credit Agreement or (ii) arising out of the Priority Credit Facility (including Priority Lenders' and the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's rights to receive payment and performance of the Priority Obligations).           In order to preserve the lien priority provided for hereunder, neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor shall, without prior written consent of the Security Agent (acting on the instruction of the Priority Agent), take a Lien to secure any Primed Obligation in any asset in which Security Agent does not hold a perfected Lien securing the Priority Obligations other than Excluded Collateral. To the extent the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor shall take any such Lien (whether or not the Security Agent has consented thereto), for all purposes hereunder the asset subject to such Lien shall be deemed "" hereunder and there shall be deemed to be a first priority Lien securing the Priority Obligations prior to the Lien securing the Primed Obligations as if such Lien were fully perfected.           (b) In exercising rights and remedies under the Priority Credit Agreement or arising out of the Priority Credit Facility, the Required Priority Lenders directly, or the Priority Agent or Security Agent on behalf of the Required Priority Lenders, may enforce the provisions of the Operative Documents and exercise remedies thereunder or otherwise (or refrain from enforcing rights and exercising remedies), all in such order and in such manner as they may determine in the exercise of their sole business judgment. Such exercise and enforcement shall include, without limitation, the rights to collect, sell, dispose of or otherwise realize upon all or any part of the Priority Collateral, to incur expenses in connection with such collection, sale, disposition or other realization and to exercise all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code of any applicable jurisdiction or under other applicable law with respect to the Priority Collateral. Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor shall contest or otherwise challenge any such collection, sale, disposition or other realization of or upon all or any of the Collateral (other than the Excluded Collateral).           (c) Notwithstanding any provisions herein, in the Priority Credit Agreement or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary, the provisions of this Agreement, automatically, and without any notice to, consent of, or action by the Administrative Agent or the Primed Creditors, or any other Person whatsoever, shall extend to all modifications, renewals, refinancings, restructurings, replacements and extensions whatsoever of the Priority Credit Agreement. In addition, no release or waiver by the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent of any of their rights against any Person under the Priority Credit Agreement shall require notice to or consent of the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor, nor shall any such release or waiver operate as a defense to or release of any of the obligations of the Administrative Agent and the Primed Creditors or affect the rights or priority of the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and th e Security Agent hereunder and under the Priority Credit Agreement. The Security Agent acknowledges that the provisions of this Agreement nonetheless constitute notice from the Administrative Agent and the Primed Creditors of their Liens for purposes of Section 9-608(a)(1)(c) and Section 9-615(a)(3)(A)of the New York UCC (provided that, to the extent that the provisions of Section 9-608(a)(1)(c) or Section 9-615(a)(3)(A) of the New York UCC conflict with the provisions hereof, the provisions hereof shall control). In furtherance of and without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of the terms of this Agreement) hereby agree and consent that, without notice to or assent by the Administrative Agent or Primed Creditors:           (i) the obligations and liabilities of any Person with respect to the Priority Obligations and the terms and provisions of the Priority Credit Agreement, may, from time to time, in whole or part, be modified, supplemented, renewed, refinanced, restructured, replaced or extended or accelerated;           (ii) the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may exercise or refrain from exercising any right, remedy or power granted to them under the Priority Credit Agreement or any other right, remedy or power at law or in equity or otherwise; and           (iii) the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may, from time to time, release or waive, in whole or part, any and all Priority Collateral, security, funds, accounts and/or Liens at any time, present or future, held, given or intended to be given in connection with the Priority Obligations without impairing the Priority Lenders' or the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's rights hereunder with respect to any Priority Collateral, or Liens not so released or waived.           (d) Any Liens on any of the Priority Collateral heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter granted to secure the Primed Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Primed Obligations), shall remain subordinate to all Liens heretofore or hereafter granted to secure the Priority Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Priority Obligations) irrespective of:           (i) the time or order or method of attachment or perfection of the Liens heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter created to secure the Priority Obligations including the Liens created by any of the Security Documents;           (ii) the time or order of filing or recording of financing statements or other documents filed or recorded to perfect any security interest in any Priority Collateral;           (iii) anything contained in any filing or agreement to which the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, or any of them collectively, now or hereafter may be a party;           (iv) the rules for determining priority under the Uniform Commercial Code or any other law governing the relative priorities of secured creditors; and           (v) perfection of or avoidability of such Liens or claims secured thereby.           (e) Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor will directly or indirectly oppose or otherwise defend against the Priority Lenders', the Priority Agent's or Security Agent's effort to obtain relief from the automatic stay with respect to the Priority Collateral in any Proceeding. The Administrative Agents and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent shall be entitled to the lifting of the stay with respect to the Priority Collateral without the necessity of an evidentiary hearing and without the necessity or requirement that the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent establish or prove the value of the Priority Collateral, the lack of adequate protection of the Priority Lenders', the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's interests in all or any portion of the Priority Collateral, the lack of any reasonable prospect of r eorganization with respect to the Company, any other Debtor or the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof, or the Company's, or any other Debtor's lack of equity in the Priority Collateral. In furtherance thereof, to the extent permitted by law, the Administrative Agent, and by its acceptance of this Agreement, the Primed Creditors, hereby, waive and agree not to assert or take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Priority Lenders, any assertion or claim that the automatic stay provided by 11 U.S.C. Section 362 (arising upon any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code involving the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof) or any other stay provided under any other debtor relief law (whether statutory, common law, case law or otherwise) of any jurisdiction whatsoever, now or hereafter in e ffect, which may be or become applicable, shall operate or be interpreted to stay, interdict, condition, reduce or inhibit the ability of the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or Security Agent to enforce any rights, whether now or hereafter acquired, which the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, may have against the Company, any other Debtor, the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof.           (f) The Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby acknowledge and agree that, as between the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent on the one hand and the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors on the other hand, the Security Documents grant the Security Agent for the benefit of Priority Lenders the benefit of first priority Liens on and security interests in, inter alia, all rents, fees, charges, accounts, revenues or other payments for the use or occupancy of any portion of the Priority Collateral and any other revenues, proceeds or profits from the Priority Collateral (the ""), whether existing before or after the commencement of any Proceeding involving the Company, any other Debtor, the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof, that such Liens on the Priority Collateral have the benefit of full perfection under applicable law and that the reve nues generated from the Priority Collateral will, notwithstanding any provision of the Bankruptcy Code which could be construed to the contrary (including, without limitation, the provisions of sections 552 and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code), constitute cash collateral of the Priority Lenders within the meaning of Bankruptcy Code section 363(a). The Administrative Agent and, by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Primed Creditors, covenant and agree that they will not hereafter assert or cause to be asserted in any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code, either as a claim or as a defense, any contrary position as to the character of the Collateral Proceeds.           (g) To the extent that the Company, any other Debtor or any other Person makes a payment or payments to the Priority Lenders (or the Priority Agent on their behalf), which payment or proceeds or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other Person under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds received, the Priority Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, and any and all Liens created by the Security Documents on the Priority Collateral in respect of the Priority Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, shall be revived and continue in full force and effect, as if such payment or proceeds had not been received by the Priority Lenders and any payments or other value received by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent or Primed Cr editors from Priority Collateral or proceeds thereof or from any other source shall be deemed to be received in trust for the benefit of, and shall, upon request by the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent, be paid over to, the Priority Agent for distribution to the Priority Lenders in accordance with the provisions of the Priority Credit Agreement.           (h) Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the court having jurisdiction over the Proceeding is hereby authorized to preserve the provisions hereof regarding payments and lien priority in approving any plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent or Primed Creditors.           (i) To the extent permitted by law, the Administrative Agent, and by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Primed Creditors, hereby waive and agree not to assert or to take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Priority Lenders:           (i) any right to require the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf to proceed against the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or to proceed against or exhaust any security held by the Priority Lenders or the Security Agent on their behalf at any time or to pursue any other remedy in the Priority Lenders' or the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's power under any other agreement before proceeding against the Priority Collateral;           (ii) demand, presentment for payment, notice of nonpayment, protest, notice of protest and all other notices of any kind, or the lack of thereof, including notice of amendments to the Priority Credit Agreement except to the extent any notice is expressly required to be given hereunder;           (iii) any right of claim or right to cause a marshaling of the assets of the Company, any Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or proration of the Lien of Priority Lenders (or Security Agent on their behalf) in the Priority Collateral; or           (iv) any lack of notice of disposition or of manner of disposition of any Priority Collateral or any portion thereof.           (j) In any Proceeding, if the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors, or any of them, has failed to file any claims or proofs of claim in respect of the debt evidenced by the Operative Documents (other than the Priority Credit Agreement and this Agreement) prior to the date 30 days prior to the last date to timely file such claim or proof of claim, the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent and the Security Agent on their behalf are hereby irrevocably authorized and empowered (in their own name or in the name of the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors) but shall have no obligation to file claims and proofs of claim in respect of the secured debt evidenced by the Operative Documents (other than the Priority Credit Agreement and this Agreement) and take such other action (including, without limitation, voting the secured debt of the Primed Obligations or enforcing any provision of the Operative Documents (other than Priority Credit Agreem ent and this Agreement)) as the Priority Lenders or Priority Agent or Security Agent on their behalf may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights or interests of Priority Lenders under this Agreement.           (k) If any Proceeding is commenced in respect of the Company, any other Debtor or the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof, neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor shall (i) vote their secured claims in favor of any plan of the Company or any other Debtor or any other Person except with the written consent of the Priority Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Priority Lenders; and (ii) oppose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing proposed by the Priority Agent at the request or direction of the Required Priority Lenders or propose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing opposed by Required Priority Lenders. If requested to do so by the Priority Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Priority Lenders, the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors shall vote in favor of a plan tha t is substantially equivalent to a chapter 7 liquidation or permits the Security Agent to foreclose the Security Documents.           (l) Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, any payment or distribution of any kind (whether in cash, cash equivalents, securities or other property) which otherwise would be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to the Primed Obligations, including, without limitation, any amount or distribution on account of a Primed Obligations Deficiency, but excluding any amount received on account of the Excluded Collateral or the NEG Guarantee, which is received by the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor will be paid or delivered directly to the Priority Agent for application to (in the case of cash or cash equivalents) or as collateral for (in the case of non-cash Property or securities which non-cash Property or securities are referred to as "") the payment of the Priority Obligations until Priority Agent has received, for application to the Priority Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the full amount of the Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency). If any such payment or distribution is received by the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor before the Priority Agent has received, for application to the Priority Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency), then the Administrative Agent and such Primed Creditors will be deemed to have received the same in trust for the Priority Lenders, and will immediately remit such payment or distribution to the Priority Agent for distribution to the Priority Lenders in accordance with the provisions of the Priority Credit Agreement. Upon receipt by the Priority Agent of cash or cash equivalents in an amount equal to the Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency) for application to the Priority Obligations, the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors shall be entitled to rec eive any payments to which they are otherwise entitled.           (m) To the extent the payments or distributions described in clause (l) above (i) are cash or cash equivalents, the amount thereof shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency), or (ii) are Turnover Property, the amount of cash or cash equivalents realized by the Priority Lenders from disposition or other realization of such Turnover Property shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency). If the Priority Lenders elect to dispose of any Turnover Property, at any time after receipt of Turnover Property, the Priority Lenders (or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf) may exercise in respect of the Turnover Property, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for in this Agreement or otherwise available to them, all the rights and remedies of a secured pa rty on default under the New York UCC (whether or not the New York UCC applies to the affected Turnover Property), and the Priority Lenders may also in their sole discretion, without notice except as specified below, sell the Turnover Property or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange or broker's board or at any of the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at such time or times and at such price or prices and upon such other terms as the Priority Lenders may deem commercially reasonable, irrespective of the impact of any such sales on the market price of the Turnover Property. Any Priority Lender may be the purchaser of any or all of the Turnover Property at any such sale. Each purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors, and the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors hereby waive (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) all rights of redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted. The Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, ten days' notice to the Administrative Agent of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification. The Priority Lenders shall not be obligated to make any sale of Turnover Property regardless of notice of sale having been given. The Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so adjourned. The Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby waive any claims against the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent arising by reason of the fact that the price at which any Turnover Property may have been sold at such a private sale was less than the price which might have been obtained at a public sale, even if the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf accept the first offer received and do not offer such Turnover Property to more than one offeree. If the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the Turnover Property are sufficient to pay the entire amount of the Priority Obligations (including the Priority Credit Agreement Deficiency) in full in cash or cash equivalents, the Priority Agent shall promptly remit to the Administrative Agent the amount of any excess proceeds, less the reasonable fees, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Priority Lenders, Priority Agent or Security Agent in conducti ng such sales and collecting the proceeds thereof for distribution to the Priority Lenders. Upon payment of the Priority Obligations in full in cash or cash equivalents, Priority Agent or the Security Agent (acting on the instructions of the Priority Agent) shall promptly remit to the Administrative Agent any excess proceeds. To the extent any of the Turnover Property constitutes securities for which registration or other qualification is required pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or other Governmental Authorities), then to the extent required by Priority Lenders, Priority Agent or Security Agent on their behalf, the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors shall cooperate with the Priority Lenders in good faith to facilitate such registration or satisfaction of other qualifications requirements.           . The provisions of this Section 10.02 are subject in all respects to the provisions of Section 10.01 of this Agreement.           (a) Subject to Section 10.01 of this Agreement but notwithstanding any other provision contained herein or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary but subject to Section 7.03 of this Agreement, any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created as security for the Residual Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Residual Obligations and without regard to whether there shall be a Lien on such asset securing the Roll-Up Obligations or whether any such Lien shall be perfected or avoidable) and all of the Residual Holder Agent's and the Residual Holders' rights and remedies under such Liens (other than any Lien on Excluded Collateral) are hereby expressly made, and at all times will be, subject and subordinate in all respects to any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created (x) as security for the Roll-Up Obligations or o therwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Roll-Up Obligations), or (y) as security for any of the Roll-Up Holders' or the Roll-Up Holder Agent's claims (i) under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents or (ii) arising out of the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Roll-Up Obligations (including Roll-Up Holders' and the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's rights to receive payment and performance of the Roll-Up Obligations).           In order to preserve the lien priority provided for hereunder, neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder shall, without prior written consent of the Security Agent (acting on the instruction of the Required Roll-Up Holders), take a Lien to secure any Residual Obligation in any asset in which Security Agent does not hold a perfected Lien securing the Roll-Up Obligations other than Excluded Collateral. To the extent the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder shall take any such Lien (whether or not the Security Agent has consented thereto), for all purposes hereunder the asset subject to such Lien shall be deemed "" hereunder and there shall be deemed to be a first priority Lien securing the Roll-Up Obligations prior to the Lien securing the Residual Obligations as if such Lien were fully perfected.           (b) In exercising rights and remedies under the Priority Credit Agreement or arising out of the Priority Credit Facility, the Required Roll-Up Holders directly, or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent (acting on the instructions of the Required Roll-Up Holders), may enforce the provisions of the Operative Documents and exercise remedies thereunder or otherwise (or refrain from enforcing rights and exercising remedies), all in such order and in such manner as they may determine in the exercise of their sole business judgment. Such exercise and enforcement shall include, without limitation, the rights to collect, sell, dispose of or otherwise realize upon all or any part of the Roll-Up Collateral, to incur expenses in connection with such collection, sale, disposition or other realization and to exercise all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code of any applicable jurisdiction or under other applicable l aw with respect to the Roll-Up Collateral but always subject to Section 7.03 of this Agreement. Neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder shall contest or otherwise challenge any such collection, sale, disposition or other realization of or upon all or any of the Roll-Up Collateral except to the extent such collection, sale, disposition or realization is inconsistent with Section 7.03 of this Agreement.           (c) Subject to Section 10.01 of this Agreement but notwithstanding any other provision in the Operative Documents to the contrary, the provisions of this Agreement, automatically, and without any notice to, consent of, or action by the Residual Holder Agent or the Residual Holders, or any other Person whatsoever, shall extend to all modifications, renewals, refinancings, restructurings, replacements and extensions whatsoever of any of the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Roll-Up Obligations. In addition, no release or waiver by the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent of any of their rights against any Person under the this Agreement or the other Operative Documents shall require notice to or consent of the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder, nor shall any such release or waiver operate as a defense to or release of any of the obligations of the Residual Holder Agent and the Resid ual Holders or affect the rights or priority of the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent hereunder and under the other Operative Documents. The Security Agent acknowledges that the provisions of this Agreement nonetheless constitute notice from the Residual Holder Agent and the Residual Holders of their Liens for purposes of Section 9-608(a)(1)(c) and Section 9-615(a)(3)(A)of the New York UCC (provided that, to the extent that the provisions of Section 9-608(a)(1)(c) or Section 9-615(a)(3)(A) of the New York UCC conflict with the provisions hereof, the provisions hereof shall control). In furtherance of and without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Residual Holder Agent and the Residual Holders (by their acceptance of the terms of this Agreement) hereby agree and consent that, without notice to or assent by the Residual Holder Agent or Residual Holders:           (i) the obligations and liabilities of any Person with respect to the Roll-Up Obligations and the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents, may, from time to time, in whole or part, be modified, supplemented, renewed, refinanced, restructured, replaced or extended or accelerated;           (ii) the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may exercise or refrain from exercising any right, remedy or power granted to them under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents or any other right, remedy or power at law or in equity or otherwise; and           (iii) the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may, from time to time, release or waive, in whole or part, any and all Roll-Up Collateral, security, funds, accounts and/or Liens at any time, present or future, held, given or intended to be given in connection with the Roll-Up Obligations without impairing the Roll-Up Holders' or the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's rights hereunder with respect to any Roll-Up Collateral, or Liens not so released or waived.           (d) Except for any Lien on Excluded Collateral, any Liens on any of the Roll-Up Collateral heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter granted to secure the Residual Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Residual Obligations), shall remain subordinate to all Liens heretofore or hereafter granted to secure the Roll-Up Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Roll-Up Obligations) irrespective of:           (i) the time or order or method of attachment or perfection of the Liens heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter created to secure the Roll-Up Obligations including the Liens created by any of the Security Documents;           (ii) the time or order of filing or recording of financing statements or other documents filed or recorded to perfect any security interest in any Roll-Up Collateral;           (iii) anything contained in any filing or agreement to which the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, or any of them collectively, now or hereafter may be a party;           (iv) the rules for determining priority under the Uniform Commercial Code or any other law governing the relative priorities of secured creditors; and           (v) perfection of or avoidability of such Liens or claims secured thereby.           (e) Neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder will directly or indirectly oppose or otherwise defend against the Roll-Up Holders', the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or Security Agent's effort to obtain relief from the automatic stay with respect to the Roll-Up Collateral in any Proceeding. The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent shall be entitled to the lifting of the stay with respect to the Roll-Up Collateral without the necessity of an evidentiary hearing and without the necessity or requirement that the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent establish or prove the value of the Roll-Up Collateral, the lack of adequate protection of the Roll-Up Holders', the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's interests in all or any portion of the Roll-Up Collateral, the lack of any reasona ble prospect of reorganization with respect to the Company, any other Debtor or the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof, or the Company's, or any other Debtor's lack of equity in the Roll-Up Collateral. In furtherance thereof, to the extent permitted by law, the Residual Holder Agent, and by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Residual Holders, hereby, waive and agree not to assert or take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Roll-Up Holders, any assertion or claim that the automatic stay provided by 11 U.S.C. Section 362 (arising upon any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code involving the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof) or any other stay provided under any other debtor relief law (whether statutory, common law, case law or otherwise) of any jurisdiction whatsoever, now or hereafter in effect, which may be or become applicable, shall operate or be interpreted to stay, interdict, condition, reduce or inhibit the ability of the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent to enforce any rights, whether now or hereafter acquired, which the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, may have against the Company, any other Debtor, the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof. None of the foregoing shall affect any rights of a Tranche B Lender or an Investor, whether as a Roll-Up Holder or as a Residual Holder, pursuant to Section 7.03 of this Agreement or prevent any such Tranche B Lender or Investor from taking any step to protect, preserve and/or enforce any such right, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents.           (f) The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby acknowledge and agree that, as between the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent on the one hand and the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders on the other hand, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.03 of this Agreement, the Security Documents grant the Security Agent for the benefit of Roll-Up Holders the benefit of first priority Liens on and security interests in, inter alia, all rents, fees, charges, accounts, revenues or other payments for the use or occupancy of any portion of the Roll-Up Collateral and any other revenues, proceeds or profits from the Roll-Up Collateral (the ""), whether existing before or after the commencement of any Proceeding involving the Company, any other Debtor, the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof, that such Liens on the Roll-Up Collateral have the benefit of full perfection under applicable law and that the revenues generated from the Roll-Up Collateral will, notwithstanding any provision of the Bankruptcy Code which could be construed to the contrary (including, without limitation, the provisions of sections 552 and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code), constitute cash collateral of the Roll-Up Holders within the meaning of Bankruptcy Code section 363(a). The Residual Holder Agent and, by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Residual Holders, covenant and agree that they will not hereafter assert or cause to be asserted in any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code, either as a claim or as a defense, any contrary position as to the character of the Roll-Up Collateral Proceeds except as otherwise provided in Section 7.03 of this Agreement.           (g) To the extent that the Company, any other Debtor or any other Person makes a payment or payments to the Roll-Up Holders (or the Roll-Up Holder Agent on their behalf), which payment or proceeds or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other Person under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds received, the Roll-Up Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, and any and all Liens created by the Security Documents on the Roll-Up Collateral in respect of the Roll-Up Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, shall be revived and continue in full force and effect, as if such payment or proceeds had not been received by the Roll-Up Holders and, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.03 of this Agreement, any payments or other value received by or on behalf of the Residual Holder Agent or Residual Holders from Roll-Up Collateral or proceeds thereof or from any other source shall be deemed to be received in trust for the benefit of, and shall, upon request by the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent be paid over to the Roll-Up Holder Agent for distribution to the Roll-Up Holders in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents.           (h) Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the court having jurisdiction over the Proceeding is hereby authorized to preserve the provisions hereof regarding payments and lien priority in approving any plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation without the prior written consent of the Residual Holder Agent or Residual Holders.           (i) To the extent permitted by law, the Residual Holder Agent, and by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Residual Holders, hereby waive and agree, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.03 of this Agreement, not to assert or to take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Roll-Up Holders:           (i) any right to require the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf to proceed against the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or to proceed against or exhaust any security held by the Roll-Up Holders or the Security Agent on their behalf at any time or to pursue any other remedy in the Roll-Up Holders' or the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's power under any other agreement before proceeding against the Roll-Up Collateral;           (ii) demand, presentment for payment, notice of nonpayment, protest, notice of protest and all other notices of any kind, or the lack of thereof, including notice of amendments to the Priority Credit Agreement except to the extent any notice is expressly required to be given hereunder;           (iii) any right of claim or right to cause a marshaling of the assets of the Company, any Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or proration of the Lien of Roll-Up Holders (or Security Agent on their behalf) in the Roll-Up Collateral; or           (iv) any lack of notice of disposition or of manner of disposition of any Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof.           (j) In any Proceeding, if the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders, or any of them, has failed to file any claims or proofs of claim in respect of the debt evidenced by the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Residual Obligations (other than this Agreement) prior to the date 30 days prior to the last date to timely file such claim or proof of claim, the Roll-Up Holders and the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent on their behalf are hereby irrevocably authorized and empowered (in their own name or in the name of the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders) but shall have no obligation to file claims and proofs of claim in respect of the secured debt evidenced by the Operative Documents as the same relate to the Residual Obligations (other than this Agreement) and take such other action (including, without limitation, voting the secured debt of the Residual Obligations or enforcing any provision of such ot her Operative Documents (other than this Agreement)) as Lenders or Agent or Security Agent on their behalf may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights or interests of Roll-Up Holders under this Agreement.           (k) If any Proceeding is commenced in respect of the Company, any other Debtor or the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof, neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder shall (i) vote their secured claims in favor of any plan of the Company or any other Debtor or any other Person except with the written consent of the Roll-Up Holder Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Roll-Up Holders; and (ii) oppose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing proposed by the Roll-Up Agent at the request or direction of the Required Roll-Up Holders or propose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing opposed by Required Roll-Up Holders. If requested to do so by the Roll-Up Holder Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Roll-Up Holders, the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders shall vote in favor of a plan that is substantially equivalent to a chapter 7 liquidation or permits the Security Agent to foreclose the Security Documents.           (l) Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, any payment or distribution of any kind (whether in cash, cash equivalents, securities or other property) which otherwise would be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to the Residual Obligations, including, without limitation, any amount or distribution on account of a Residual Obligations Deficiency, but excluding, any amount received on account of the Excluded Collateral or the NEG Guarantee, which is received by the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder will be paid or delivered directly to the Roll-Up Holder Agent for application to (in the case of cash or cash equivalents) or as collateral for (in the case of non-cash Property or securities which non-cash Property or securities are referred to as "") the payment of the Roll-Up Obligations until the Roll-Up Holder Agent has received, for application to the Roll-Up Obligations, an amount in cash or cash e quivalents equal to the full amount of the Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency). If any such payment or distribution is received by the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder before the Roll-Up Holder Agent has received, for application to the Roll-Up Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency), then the Residual Holder Agent and such Residual Holders will be deemed to have received the same in trust for the Roll-Up Holders, and will immediately remit such payment or distribution to the Roll-Up Holder Agent for distribution to the Roll-Up Holders in accordance with the provisions of the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Roll-Up Obligations. Upon receipt by the Roll-Up Holder Agent of cash or cash equivalents in an amount equal to the Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency) for application to t he Roll-Up Obligations, the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders shall be entitled to receive any payments to which they are otherwise entitled.           (m) To the extent the payments or distributions described in clause (l) above (i) are cash or cash equivalents, the amount thereof shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency), or (ii) are Roll-Up Turnover Property, the amount of cash or cash equivalents realized by the Roll-Up Holders from disposition or other realization of such Roll-Up Turnover Property shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency). If the Roll-Up Holders elect to dispose of any Roll-Up Turnover Property, at any time after receipt of Roll-Up Turnover Property, the Roll-Up Holders (or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf) may exercise in respect of the Roll-Up Turnover Property, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for in this Agreement or otherwise available to them, all the rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the New York UCC (whether or not the New York UCC applies to the affected Roll-Up Turnover Property), and the Roll-Up Holders may also in their sole discretion, without notice except as specified below, sell the Roll-Up Turnover Property or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange or broker's board or at any of the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at such time or times and at such price or prices and upon such other terms as the Roll-Up Holders may deem commercially reasonable, irrespective of the impact of any such sales on the market price of the Roll-Up Turnover Property. Any Roll-Up Holder may be the purchaser of any or all of the Roll-Up Turnover Property at any such sale. Each purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of the Residual Holder Agent and Residu al Holders, and the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders hereby waive (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) all rights of redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted. The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, ten days' notice to the Residual Holder Agent of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification. The Roll-Up Holders shall not be obligated to make any sale of Roll-Up Turnover Property regardless of notice of sale having been given. The Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be mad e at the time and place to which it was so adjourned. The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby waive any claims against the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent arising by reason of the fact that the price at which any Roll-Up Turnover Property may have been sold at such a private sale was less than the price which might have been obtained at a public sale, even if the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf accept the first offer received and do not offer such Roll-Up Turnover Property to more than one offeree. If the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the Roll-Up Turnover Property are sufficient to pay the entire amount of the Roll-Up Obligations (including the Roll-Up Deficiency) in full in cash or cash equivalents, the Roll-Up Holder Agent shall promptly remit to the Residual Holder Agent the amount of any excess proceeds, less the reasonable fees, costs and expenses (inc luding reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent in conducting such sales and collecting the proceeds thereof for distribution to the Roll-Up Holders. Upon payment of the Roll-Up Obligations in full in cash or cash equivalents, Roll-Up Holder Agent shall promptly remit to the Residual Holder Agent any excess proceeds. To the extent any of the Roll-Up Turnover Property constitutes securities for which registration or other qualification is required pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or other Governmental Authorities), then to the extent required by Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent on their behalf, the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders shall cooperate with Roll-Up Holders in good faith to facilitate such registration or satisfaction of other qualifications requirements.           (n) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any of the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.02, none of the rights of the Tranche B Lenders and Investors, whether as Roll-Up Holders or as Residual Holders, as set forth in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall be affected, limited or prejudiced by any provision of this Section 10.02 in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents and none of the Tranche B Lenders and Investors, whether as Roll-Up Holders or as Residual Holders, or any agent therefor, shall be restricted or prevented from asserting any such right in any manner or from taking any steps to protect, preserve and enforce such rights under Section 7.03 of this Agreement to the full extent permitted by law and in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents and any waiver, agreement or consent of the Tranche B Lenders and Investors, whether as Roll-Up Holders or as Residual Holders, contained in this Secti on 10.02 shall, in each case, be deemed to have been qualified by this Section 10.02(n).           . Notwithstanding any provision contained herein or in the other Operative Documents, the Administrative Agent and, by their acceptance of this Agreement, each Primed Creditor hereby agrees that so long as any of the Priority Obligations remain outstanding or any Priority Commitments remain in effect, without the prior written consent of the Priority Agent (acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders), the Primed Creditors shall not waive or agree with the Company, any other Debtor or any other party to an Operative Document to amend, modify or supplement any of the provisions of any Operative Documents if the effect of such waiver, amendment, modification or supplement, together with all other waivers, amendments, modifications or supplements theretofore made, is (a) to confer any additional rights on the Primed Creditors or the Administrative Agent which is adverse in any material respect to the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent, (b) to otherwise adversely affect the rights or remedies of the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or (c) to adversely affect the ability of the Company, any other Debtor or any other party to an Operative Document to perform its obligations under, with respect to, or otherwise directly or indirectly affecting, the Priority Credit Agreement or any other Operative Document to the extent that the same relates to the Priority Obligations.                      (a) Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.04), until all obligations arising in connection with the Priority Credit Facility have been repaid or prepaid in full and all Priority Commitments have been terminated: (i) each Creditor (other than the Priority Lenders) hereby agrees to forbear on all Defaults and Events of Default in existence as of the Effective Date and as may arise thereafter under the Participation Agreement unless and until the Required Priority Lenders elect to take enforcement action by delivering a Notice of Action to the Security Agent or otherwise, (ii) no Creditor (other than the Priority Lenders) shall have any right to take, or to direct the Security Agent to take, any action in respect of the Collateral (including the issuance of a Notice of Action) unless the Required Priority Lenders have consented to the taking of such action and (iii) subject to Section 10.12 of this Agreement, the Required Priority Lenders shall have the exclusive right to direct the Security Agent to take action (without regard to the forbearance set out above) in respect of the Collateral during any Enforcement Period (as defined in the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement) and the Debtors hereby acknowledge that an Event of Default Period and Enforcement Period are continuing from the date hereof.           (b) Subject to Section 10.04(a) of this Agreement and the other intercreditor provisions set out in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent and each of the other Creditors, expressly reserves any and all of their rights and remedies relating to any Default or Event of Default existing as of the date hereof (whether known or unknown) or arising after the date hereof, including under the Participation Agreement and other Operative Documents and waives none of such rights by executing this Agreement. The failure to exercise or any delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Creditor, any right, remedy, power or privilege under the Operative Documents with respect to the Defaults and/or Events of Default referred to in the preceding sentence shall not be deemed, or operate as, a waiver thereof and all such rights and remedies are hereby reserved (subject to the intercreditor provisions in Section 10.04(a) of this Agreement a nd the other intercreditor provisions set out in this Agreement).                      (a) Each party hereto hereby consents and agrees to the execution of (i) this Agreement by the other parties hereto and (ii) the Priority Credit Agreement (substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto) by the Company, the Owner, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, each Priority Lender party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent.           (b) Each party hereto hereby agrees that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.05), until the date on which (i) the Priority Loans and the Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations have been repaid or prepaid in full and (ii) the Priority Working Capital L/Cs and Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments have been cash collateralized in full, upon the written instructions of the Required Priority Lenders, the Trustee shall take or refrain from taking such action or actions as may be specified in such instructions.           (c) The Creditors hereby authorize and direct the Trustee, the Trust Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent to execute, deliver and perform their respective obligations, if any, under this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement.           (d) The Creditors hereby agree that with respect to matters requiring the Independent Engineer to provide advice or otherwise assist the Priority Agent in its administration of the Priority Credit Agreement that they shall cause the Independent Engineer to provide such advice or assistance in the manner and in accordance with the terms under which it currently provides advice and assistance to the Administrative Agent under the Participation Agreement.                      (a) Those Creditors (the "Non-Participating Creditors") who elect not to participate in a debtor-in-possession financing facility (a "DIP Facility") hereby authorize the execution of a DIP facility agreement by those Persons who are parties to this Agreement and that elect to participate therein (the "DIP Lenders") in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B (the "Proposed DIP Facility Agreement"), or, if not in such form, then in such form as is approved by the Court in an interim order or final order (the "Creditor-Provided DIP Facility") so long as the agreement as so approved in an interim order or final order issued in by the Court in such Case is not materially more burdensome when taken as a whole on the rights of the Non-Participating Creditors than the Proposed DIP Facility Agreement. The Non-Participating Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) and to the extent permitted by law, hereby agree (a) not to oppose or otherwis e defend against (and hereby waive any and all rights that they may have to oppose or defend against), directly or indirectly, any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing proposed by the DIP Lenders or (b) propose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing opposed by the DIP Lenders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that a debtor-in-possession financing facility is proposed to or approved by the Court involving lenders other than Persons party to this Agreement, the restrictions on activities by the Creditors to oppose such financing set out in this Section 10.06(a) shall not apply. Each Priority Lender party to this Agreement shall have the right to participate in a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility in an amount equal to its Priority Commitment Percentage of the total amount of Commitments provided for under such Facility.           (b) The Creditors hereby (i) authorize and direct the Trustee, the Trust Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent to execute, deliver and perform their respective obligations, if any, under, or with respect to, the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility; (ii) agree (in their capacity as Pre-Petition Parties (as defined in the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility)) that, by execution of the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility by the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent, such Creditors accede to, and agree to be bound by, the provisions of Section 8 (or any correlative section) of the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility with respect to any and all Pre-Petition Obligations of such Creditors (and any Liens securing such Pre-Petition Obligations); and (iii) acknowledge and agree to the appointment of the Security Agent as agent of the Superpriority Parties (as defined in the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility) for the purpose s set forth in the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility. The authorizations, directions, acknowledgments and agreements set forth in this Section 10.06(b) relate solely to the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility and are not intended to (and shall not be interpreted so as to) apply directly or indirectly to any other DIP Facility.           . Each of the parties hereto confirms the intention of the parties to characterize the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as set forth in Section 6.1 of the Lease. In the event of the commencement of a Case, NEG, the Company and the Owner hereby agree to file such motions and take such other actions as may be available to them to give effect to the characterization of the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as set forth in Section 6.1 of the Lease and each Creditor hereby agrees not to oppose any motion by the Company to characterize the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as a secured financing transaction that preserves all rights of the Creditors in, to and under all Collateral.           . Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees (or shall be deemed to have covenanted and agreed) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the date that the Priority Obligations are paid in full, it will not (without the prior written consent of the Priority Agent (acting on the instruction of the Required Priority Lenders)) institute against the Company or any other Debtor, or join with any other Person in instituting against the Company or any other Debtor, any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, agreement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or seek appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or mak e a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors or take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts hereinabove set forth. It is the express intent of this Section 10.08 that the consent of Required Priority Lenders (and as between all Creditors the consent of the Required Priority Lenders only) shall be required in connection with the acts hereinabove set forth and, in the event of any inconsistency between this Section 10.08 and any other the provisions of any other Operative Document relating to the matters hereinabove set forth, this Section 10.08 shall govern.           The provisions of this Section 10.08 shall survive the termination of the Operative Documents. Nothing contained herein shall preclude participation by any the parties hereto in the assertion or defense of its claims in any such proceeding involving the Company or any Debtor.                      (a) If required by the Administrative Agent, NEG shall provide written reaffirmation of NEG's agreement to continue to manage the construction of the Project (in cooperation with the Company) until requested otherwise by the Administrative Agent, and if requested otherwise, to cooperate in a transition to a third party management company.           (b) To the extent requested by the Administrative Agent, NEG agrees that it shall cooperate in a transition from PGET to third party power purchasers and fuel suppliers.           . The Company hereby acknowledges that:           (a) it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement;           (b) neither the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent nor any Lender, Investor or Priority Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to the Company arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the Priority Credit Agreement or any of the other Operative Documents, and the relationship between the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Lenders, the Investors and the Priority Lenders, on one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and           (c) no joint venture is created hereby or by the Priority Credit Agreement or the other Operative Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Priority Credit Agreement among the Lenders, Investors and Priority Lenders or among the Company and the Lenders, Investors and Priority Lenders.                      (a) The Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent agree to be bound by, and to benefit from, the Participation Agreement as if a party thereto. Each other party to the Participation Agreement hereby consents and agrees to the accession by the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent to the Participation Agreement.           (b) The Priority Agent, as agent for and on behalf of the Priority Lenders, agrees to be bound by, and to benefit from, the Security Deposit Agreement as if a party thereto. Each other party to the Security Deposit Agreement hereby consents and agrees to the accession by the Priority Agent, on behalf of the Priority Lenders, to the Security Deposit Agreement.           (c) The Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent (i) agree to be bound by, and to benefit from, the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement as if a party thereto and (ii) irrevocably designate and appoint Citibank, N.A. as the Security Agent under the Transaction Documents and authorize Citibank, N.A., in the capacity of Security Agent, to take such action on their behalf in accordance with the provisions of the Transaction Documents. By its signature below, Citibank, N.A. accepts such appointment. Each other party to the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement hereby consents and agrees to the accession by the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent to the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement.                      (a) Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.12), each Creditor hereby agrees that unless and until the Priority Loans have been repaid in full and the Priority Commitments have terminated (i) the 75% Priority Lenders may or, with the consent of the 75% Priority Lenders, the Security Agent or the Priority Agent may initiate an auction process or otherwise solicit bids for the purchase of all or any part of the Collateral or equity in the Project or the Company held by the Creditors or otherwise agree to, or accept, a consensual transfer of the Project (through deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise) in accordance with a process approved by or otherwise on terms acceptable to the 75% Priority Lenders, (ii) the 75% Priority Lenders may or, with the consent of the 75% Priority Lenders, the Security Agent or the Priority Agent may sell or otherwise transfer all or any part of the Collateral in connect ion with such auction or other sale process or otherwise accept any bids (whether solicited or unsolicited) for purchase of any Collateral or equity in the Project or otherwise agree to or accept a consensual transfer of the Project (through deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise) and undertake such transactions as may be necessary to consummate such sale or other transfer and (iii) other than the consent of the 75% Priority Lenders referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above, no other consent or approval of the Creditors is required for any action provided for, or referred to, in this Section 10.12(a).           (b) In connection with any proposed restructuring, adjustment, compromise or other action addressing of the liabilities of NEG whether or not in connection with any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, agreement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, or other relief with respect to it or its debts (an ""), in addition to any consent from any Creditor or class thereof required under the terms of the Operative Documents as in effect on the Effective Date (subject to the rights granted to the Super-Majority Priority Lenders under Section 10.12(a) of this Agreement with respect to matters covered thereby), the consent of the Super-Majority Priority Lenders shall be required in connection with any release, modification or other adjustment of any claims (howsoever described) against NEG (whether under th e NEG Guarantee or otherwise) or any amendments, modifications, supplements or waivers with respect to any of the Operative Documents proposed or requested in connection with any such NEG Restructuring; that, notwithstanding any provision in any Operative Document, no "Participant" (as such term is defined in the Tranche A Loan Agreement and Tranche B Loan Agreement) shall have or be granted by any Creditor any consent rights with respect to any transactions undertaken in connection with an NEG Restructuring.           (c) With respect to providing direction to PGET in connection with the commencement of the term under the PGET Power Purchase Agreement and the PGET Gas Supply Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall provide direction as directed by the Priority Agent acting on the instructions of the Required Priority Lenders.           (d) Any Priority Lender may effect a roll-up of Investor Contributions held by an Affiliate of such Priority Lender.           . By their execution of this Agreement and notwithstanding any provision herein or in the other Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.13), the Beneficiaries (as such term is defined in the Structural Guaranty) hereby make demand on the Company for payment under the Structural Guaranty in an amount equal to the full amount of the Guaranteed Obligations (as such term is defined in the Structural Guaranty) due and payable through the Effective Date after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 12 of this Agreement (such amount, the ""). The Company hereby acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding any provision of the Structural Guaranty to the contrary:           (a) the demand made by the Beneficiaries hereunder is a valid and effective demand under the Structural Guaranty;           (b) the Structural Guaranty Demand Amount is due from it on and as of the Effective Date;           (c) it does not have any defenses, counterclaims, offsets, cross-complaints, claims or demands of any kind or nature whatsoever that can be asserted to reduce or eliminate all or any part of liability of the Company to pay the Beneficiaries the Structural Guaranty Demand Amount; and           (d) nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent the Beneficiaries from making further demands under the Structural Guaranty.           . By their execution of this Agreement, the Tranche A Lenders constituting Required Tranche A Lenders hereby direct the Security Agent pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement to draw on the NEG Guarantee by delivery of a Payment Demand (as defined in Section 1.01 of the NEG Guarantee) thereunder. The Security Agent hereby demands payment on the NEG Guarantee pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the NEG Guarantee in an amount equal to the full amount of the Guaranteed Obligations (as such term is defined in the NEG Guarantee) due and payable through the Effective Date after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 12 of this Agreement (such amount, the ""). NEG hereby acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding any provision of the NEG Guarantee to the contrary:           (a) the demand made by the Security Agent pursuant to this Section 10.14 is a valid and effective Payment Demand under the NEG Guarantee;           (b) the lesser of the NEG Demand Amount and the Maximum Guarantee Amount (as defined in the NEG Guarantee) in effect on the Effective Date is due from it on the Effective Date pursuant to the terms of the NEG Guarantee;           (c) it does not have any defenses, counterclaims, offsets, cross-complaints, claims or demands of any kind or nature whatsoever that can be asserted to reduce or eliminate all or any part of liability of NEG to pay to the Security Agent for the benefit of the Creditors entitled thereto the amount determined pursuant to clause (b) above; and           (d) nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent the Security Agent from making further demands under the NEG Guarantee.                      (a) Notwithstanding anything in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.15), the Company in its capacity as Construction Agent under the Construction Agency Agreement shall request from the Priority Lenders borrowings of Priority Construction Loans to be applied in accordance with the terms of the Priority Credit Agreement subject to the terms and conditions of the Priority Credit Agreement.           (b) The Owner hereby expressly reserves any and all of its rights and remedies under the Construction Agency Agreement relating to any Default or Event of Default existing as of the date hereof (whether known or unknown) or arising after the date hereof and waives none of such rights by executing this Agreement. The failure to exercise or any delay in exercising, on the part of the Owner, any right, remedy, power or privilege under the Construction Agency Agreement with respect to the Defaults and/or Events of Default referred to in the preceding sentence shall not be deemed, or operate as, a waiver thereof and all such rights and remedies are hereby reserved.           (c) Section 2.4(c) of the Construction Agency Agreement is amended to read as follows: "(c) cause the Conversion Date to occur on or prior to the Date Certain; that the Required Priority Lenders have provided written consent (as contemplated by Section 6.2(l) of the Priority Credit Agreement) on or before the Outside Completion Date;"           . Notwithstanding anything in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.16), the consent of the Company shall not be required in connection with any transfers of the beneficial interests held by the Investors in the Trust.           . The parties hereto agree that amounts payable in respect of Tranche A Interest Hedge Obligations and Tranche B Interest Hedge Obligations shall not constitute "other amounts" payable in connection with the Tranche A Loans and the Tranche B Loans, respectively, under the Operative Documents. The parties hereto agree that solely for the purpose of calculating the "Maximum Guarantee Amount" (as such term is defined in the NEG Guarantee) under the NEG Guarantee, interest on the Tranche A Loans shall, notwithstanding anything herein or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary, be computed (including for capitalization of interest as principal) on the basis of the applicable interest rate margin with respect to Tranche A Loans in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date.                      (a) The Company and each Interest Hedge Party hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11) or other Interest Hedge Contracts to the contrary, the Settlement Amounts shall accrue interest monthly in arrears at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Margin.           (b) The Company and each Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Party hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11) or other Interest Hedge Contracts to the contrary:           (i) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche A Settlement Amounts (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to the Tranche A Settlement Amounts) will be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding prior to giving effect to the "roll-up" election pursuant to Section 9 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           (ii) With respect to Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans:           (A) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans.           (B) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.           (iii) With respect to Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans:           (A) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans.           (B) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.           (c) The Company and each Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11) or other Interest Hedge Contracts to the contrary:           (i) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche B Settlement Amounts (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to the Tranche B Settlement Amounts) will be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding prior to giving effect to the "roll-up" election pursuant to Section 9 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           (ii) With respect to Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans:           (A) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans.           (B) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.           (iii) With respect to Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans:           (A) After the Effective Date and prior to the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall, on each Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans.           (B) On and after the Completion Date, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; that (A) to the extent that cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid on such Interest Date shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.           (d) Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents to the contrary (but subject to this Section 11(d)), from and after the Effective Date, Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans shall accrue interest monthly in arrears at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Margin.                      . The Company, Citibank, N.A., as the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Working Capital Lenders party there, Socit Gnrale, as the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the L/C Banks party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement is hereby terminated and shall no longer be of any force or effect.           . Each Interest Hedge Party and the Company confirm that (a) each Interest Hedge Contract either (i) has been terminated or (ii) is hereby terminated and (b) such parties have agreed on the payment due by the Company to such Interest Hedge Party on the Effective Date pursuant to the terms of the relevant Interest Hedge Contract. Each Interest Hedge Party acknowledges that it is bound by the provisions of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement.           . In the event that all Loans and Investor Contributions have not been accelerated or otherwise have become due in full, the Required Participants hereby instruct and request that the Administrative Agent provide the notice in the succeeding sentence. Pursuant to Section 7.1 of the Participation Agreement, the Administrative Agent hereby (i) declares (A) the Commitments to be terminated forthwith and (B) the Loans and Investor Contributions (with accrued interest and Investor Yield thereon, respectively) and all other amounts owing under the Operative Documents to be due and payable forthwith and (ii) provides notice to the Owner and the Company of such declaration.           . Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that the Trust Company is (except as otherwise expressly provided herein or therein) entering into this Agreement and the other Operative Documents to which it is a party (other than the Trust Agreement), solely in its capacity as trustee under the Trust Agreement and not in its individual capacity, and that the Trust Company shall not be liable or accountable under any circumstances whatsoever in its individual capacity for or on account of any statements, representations, warranties, covenants or obligations stated to be those of the Trustee, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct and as otherwise expressly provided herein or in the other Operative Documents. Except as specifically provided in the Trust Agreement and except to the extent that the Trust Company shall have acted in its individual capacity, all Persons havi ng any claim against the Owner or the Trust Company acting in its capacity as Trustee by reason of the transactions contemplated hereby shall look only to the Trust Estate for payment or satisfaction thereof. Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 12.04), (i) the indemnification provisions set forth in the Trust Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and (ii) if the Trustee is unsure of the application of any provision of any Operative Document, the Trustee shall promptly request and rely upon instructions of the Required Priority Lenders and shall have no liability to the extent it fails to act after prompt request for clarification from such Required Priority Lenders and prior to the receipt of instructions from such Required Priority Lenders.           . This Agreement shall become effective on the date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied, or waived, in the sole discretion of the Administrative Agent:           (a) each of this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto and shall be in full force and effect (assuming, solely for purposes of this clause (a), that the Effective Date had occurred);           (b) each of the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent shall have received: (i) a certified copy of the resolutions or minutes or other appropriate documents evidencing the corporate actions of NEG and the Company authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of NEG and the Company, as the case may be, as of the Effective Date, which certificate shall state that such resolutions or minutes or other appropriate documents have not been amended, modified, revoked or rescinded; (ii) an incumbency certificate of each of NEG and the Company regarding the officers thereof authorized to execute and deliver on its behalf this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement and any other documents and agreements to be delivered in connection therewith, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secr etary of NEG and the Company, as the case may be, as of the Effective Date; and (iii) true and complete copies of the certificate of formation, limited liability agreement and other organizational documents (if any) of NEG and the Company, certified as of the Effective Date as complete and correct copies thereof by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of NEG and the Company, as the case may be;           (c) each of the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent shall have received an Officer's Certificate of each of the Company and NEG, dated the Effective Date, stating that: (i) in the case of the Officer's Certificate of the Company, the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date; (ii) in the case of the Officer's Certificate of NEG, the representations and warranties set forth in Section III of the NEG Guarantee (other than Section 3.04(d) of the NEG Guarantee) are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solel y to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date; and (iii) in the case of the Officer's Certificate of each of NEG and the Company, (x) all conditions precedent required to be fulfilled on the Effective Date have been fulfilled and (y) no Post-Effective Date Default or Post-Effective Date Event of Default has occurred or will occur on the Effective Date;           (d) each of the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent shall have received such opinions of the Company, the Owner, the Trust Company and NEG as are reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent; and           (e) all fees payable to any Priority Lender, the Priority Agent, the Security Agent or the Administrative Agent (including the fees of any consultant, advisor or legal counsel to any such lender or agent) shall have been paid.           . To induce the Creditors to enter into this Agreement, each of the Company and the Owner hereby further represents and warrants that:           (i) as of December 11, 2002, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of (a) Tranche A Loans will be $361,658,866, (b) Tranche B Loans will be $286,962,683, (c) Investor Contributions will be $20,139,621, (d) Working Capital Loans will be $0 and (e) L/C Reimbursement Loans will be $0;           (ii) as of December 11, 2002, the aggregate undrawn face amount of (a) Working Capital L/Cs will be $0, (b) DSR L/Cs will be $0 and (c) RCE L/Cs will be $0; and           (iii) as of and on the date hereof, the obligations of the Owner under the Tranche A Loan Agreement, the Tranche B Loan Agreement and other Operative Documents and the Company under the Structural Guaranty and other Operative Documents to repay the Loans and the Investor Contributions and pay the other Secured Obligations, together with all interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts accrued thereon, is absolute and unconditional, and there exists no right of set off or recoupment, counterclaim or defense of any nature whatsoever to payment of the Secured Obligations.           .           . All notices, requests, demands or other communications given to the Company, the Owner, the Security Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Creditor shall be given in writing (including telex or facsimile transmission) and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when duly deposited in the mails, registered or certified mail postage prepaid, or when transmitted by telex or facsimile transmission, addressed (i) if to the Company, the Owner, the Security Agent, the Administrative Agent or the Priority Agent, to such party at its address specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement or any other address which such party shall have specified as its address for the purpose of communications hereunder, by notice given in accordance with this subsection to the party sending such communication or (ii) if to any Creditor, to it at its address as provided by such Cred itor, including the addresses specified in the Participation Agreement, as the case may be; that any notice, request or demand to the Security Agent shall not be effective until received by the Security Agent at the office designated by it pursuant to this subsection.           . This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.           . Any provision of this Agreement (other than Sections 10.01 through 10.08 and Sections 10.11 through 10.16 of this Agreement) may be amended, modified or supplemented only by an instrument in writing signed by each party hereto (other than NEG). Sections 10.01 through 10.08 and Sections 10.11 through 10.16 of this Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented only by an instrument in writing signed by the Creditors (other than the Trust Company).           . The headings of the various Sections of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not modify, define, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.           . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.           . Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.           . The parties hereto shall promptly cause to be taken, executed, acknowledged or delivered, at the sole expense of the Company, all such further acts, conveyances, documents and assurances as the other parties may from time to time reasonably request in order to carry out and effectuate the intent and purposes of this Agreement, the other Operative Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (including, without limitation, the preparation, execution and filing of any and all Uniform Commercial Code financing statements and other filings or registrations which the parties hereto may from time to time request to be filed or effected). The Company, at its own expense, shall take such action as may be reasonably requested in order to maintain and protect all security interests provided for hereunder or under any other Operative Document.           . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns           . No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of any Creditor, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the other Operative Documents shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.           . In case of any conflict or inconsistency between this Agreement and any other Operative Document (other than the Priority Credit Agreement), this Agreement shall control.           . The Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Lenders, the Investors and the Interest Hedge Parties hereby ratify and confirm the following prior amendments and waivers to the Operative Documents:           (i) the Omnibus Restructuring Agreement (La Paloma), dated as of April 6, 2001;           (ii) the Second Amendment (La Paloma), dated as of June 5, 2002;           (iii) the Waiver and Consent, dated as of October 21, 2002; and           (iv) the Amendment, Waiver and Consent, dated as of November 6, 2002.           . EACH OF NEG, THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT DOES NOT HAVE ANY DEFENSES, COUNTERCLAIMS, OFFSETS, CROSS-COMPLAINTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS OF ANY KIND OR NATURE WHATSOEVER THAT CAN BE ASSERTED TO REDUCE OR ELIMINATE ALL OR ANY PART OF LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER TO REPAY THE LENDERS, PRIORITY LENDERS AND INVESTORS AS PROVIDED IN THE OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS OR TO SEEK AFFIRMATIVE RELIEF OR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE FROM THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE PRIORITY AGENT OR ANY OTHER CREDITOR. EACH OF NEG, THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER HEREBY VOLUNTARILY AND KNOWINGLY RELEASES AND FOREVER DISCHARGES THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE PRIORITY AGENT AND THE OTHER CREDITORS, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S, THE PRIORITY AGENT'S AND EACH OTHER CREDITOR'S PREDECESSORS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, FROM ALL POSSIBLE CLAIMS, DEMANDS, ACTIONS, CAUSES OF ACTIO N, DAMAGES, COSTS, OR EXPENSES, AND LIABILITIES WHATSOEVER, KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, ANTICIPATED OR UNANTICIPATED, SUSPECTED OR UNSUSPECTED, FIXED, CONTINGENT, OR CONDITIONAL, AT LAW OR IN EQUITY, ORIGINATING IN WHOLE OR IN PART ON OR BEFORE THE DATE THIS AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED, WHICH ANY OF NEG, THE COMPANY OR THE OWNER MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE PRIORITY AGENT OR ANY OTHER CREDITOR, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S, THE PRIORITY AGENT'S OR ANY OTHER CREDITOR'S PREDECESSORS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, IF ANY, IN THEIR CAPACITIES AS SUCH, AND IRRESPECTIVE OF WHETHER ANY SUCH CLAIMS ARISE OUT OF CONTRACT, TORT, VIOLATION OF LAW OR REGULATIONS, OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS AND REMEDIES UNDER THE OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS, AND NEGOTIATION AND EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT.           15.13  Lease and other Operative Documents. Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 15.13), each party hereto hereby agrees that, with respect to the Lease or any other Operative Document pursuant to which the Company manages or operates the Project, none of the Priority Lenders, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or the Priority Agent shall have any responsibility or liability to the Company or any other Person with respect to any of the following: (x) any liability, loss or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by the Project or any part thereof or by any inadequacy thereof or deficiency or defect therein or by any other circumstances in connection therewith; (y) the use, operation or performance of the Project or any part thereof or any risks relating thereto; or (z) the delivery, operation, servicing, maintenance , repair, improvement, replacement or decommissioning of the Project or any part thereof.           . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Company and the Owner herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Priority Loans and issuance of any Priority Working Capital L/C, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Priority Agent, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Post-Effective Default, Post-Effective Event of Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Priority Lo an or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Priority Working Capital L/C is outstanding and so long as the Priority Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Section 10 shall survive and remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.           IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.           [signature pages to follow]
Agreement
4,
Company
Owner
Trust Company
Trustee
Administrative Agent
Security Agent
Priority Agent
NEG
Participation Agreement
Tranche A Loan Agreement
Tranche B Loan Agreement
Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement
Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement
Security Deposit Agreement
          
75% Priority Lenders
Case
Collateral Proceeds
Court
Creditor-Provided DIP Facility
Debtor
DIP Facility
DIP Lenders
Effective Date
Excluded Collateral
Existing Obligations
NEG Demand Amount
NEG Restructuring
Non-Participating Creditors
Primed Creditors
Primed Obligations
Primed Obligations Deficiency
Priority Collateral
Priority Credit Facility
Priority Obligation Deficiency
Proceeding
Proposed DIP Facility Agreement
Required Roll-Up Holders
Residual Holder Agent
Residual Holders
Residual Loans
Residual Obligations
Roll-Up Collateral
          
Roll-Up Collateral Proceeds
Roll-Up Holder Agent
Roll-Up Holders
Roll-Up Loans
Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency
Roll-Up Obligations
Roll-Up Turnover Property
Settlement Amounts
Structural Guaranty Demand Amount
Super-Majority Priority Lenders
Tranche A Settlement Amounts
Tranche B Settlement Amounts
Turnover Property
Principles of Interpretation
mutatis mutandis
Section 2. Participation Agreement
Remaining Proceeds of the NEG Guarantee or a Substitute Credit Support Instrument
provided
provided
provided
2.03 Section 7.1 of the Participation Agreement is amended by inserting a new clause (t) as follows:           "(t) . The Priority Agent shall have notified the Administrative Agent, in writing, that a Post-Effective Event of Default has occurred and is continuing."           2.04 Section 10.3 of the Participation Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           (a) Clause (d) is deleted and replaced, in its entirety by the following clause:           "(d) to the arrangers, the Agents and the Priority Agent, all fees specified in the Fee Letters at the time and in the manner required by the Fee Letters (or, in the case of the Priority Agent, all fees referenced in Section 2.16 of the Priority Credit Agreement);"           (b) Clause (f) is amended by deleting the phrase "other than principal and interest on the Loans," and replacing it with the phrase "other than principal and interest on the Loans and Priority Loans,".           2.05 The second sentence of Section 10.5(a)(i) of the Participation Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso at the end thereof:           "; that (i) any payment made on account of the principal of or yield on Roll-Up Loans which are Investor Contributions shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amount of the Investor Contributions which constitute Roll-Up Loans then held by the Investors and (ii) any payment made on account of the principal of or yield on Residual Loans which are Investor Contributions shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amount of the Investor Contributions which constitute Residual Loans then held by the Investors."           2.06 The first sentence of Section 10.7 of the Participation Agreement is amended as follows:           (a) Part (a) of the proviso is amended by inserting the phrase ", the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders" after the term "Investors".           (b) Part (c) of the proviso is amended by inserting the phrase ", the Priority Agent, any Priority Lender" after the phrase "any Investor".           2.07 Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement is hereby amended by inserting after the contact information for the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the following additional contact information:           "If to the Priority Agent:           Citibank, N.A.           Two Penns Way, Suite 200           New Castle, DE 19720           Tel: (302) 894-6084           Fax: (302) 894-6120           Attention: David Chiu           with a copy to:           Citibank, N.A.           388 Greenwich Street           New York, NY 10013           Tel: (212) 816-1048           Fax: (212) 816-0485           Attention: Nasir Khan, Vice President           If to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer:           Citibank, N.A.           Two Penns Way, Suite 200           New Castle, DE 19720           Tel: (302) 894-6084           Fax: (302) 894-6120           Attention: David Chiu           with a copy to:           Citibank, N.A.           388 Greenwich Street           New York, NY 10013           Tel: (212) 816-1048           Fax: (212) 816-0485           Attention: Nasir Khan, Vice President"           2.08 The following new defined terms are hereby inserted into Annex A of the Participation Agreement in the appropriate alphabetical ord
Post-Effective Event of Default
provided
Additional Project Contract
Available Priority Commitment
Cash Collateralization Accounts
DIP Lenders
Effective Date
Interest Date
Liquidation Waterfall
PCL Funding Dates
Post-Effective Event of Default
Priority Agent
Priority Commitment Period
Priority Commitments
Priority Credit Agreement
Priority Lenders
Priority Loans
Priority Maturity Date
Priority Notes
Priority Obligations
Priority Scheduled Debt Service
Priority Working Capital Commitment Account
Priority Working Capital L/C
Priority Working Capital L/C Account
Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer
Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations
Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments
Priority Working Capital Loans
Proposed DIP Facility Agreement
Required Priority Lenders
Residual Loans
Revenue Account Waterfall
Roll-Up Loans
Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement
Settlement Amounts
Subject Project Costs
Tranche A Settlement Amounts
Tranche B Settlement Amounts
Waterfall Commencement Date
Applicable Margin
Operating Costs
Section 3.  Tranche A Loan Agreement
provided
provided
provided
Section 4.  Tranche B Loan Agreement
provided
provided
provided
Section 5.   Security Deposit Agreement
Priority Working Capital L/C Account
Priority Working Capital Commitment Account
Required L/C Deposit Amount
over
Required Commitment Deposit Amount
over
plus
Supplemental Request Letter
provided
Revenue Account
first
second
third
fourth
first
second
fifth
first
second
sixth
          
seventh
eighth
ninth
tenth
eleventh
plus
          twelfth
thirteenth
plus
fourteenth
fifteenth
first
fourteenth
first
second
second
5.07 Section 5.2 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:           
Cash Collateralization Accounts
Priority Working Capital L/C Account
Priority Working Capital Commitment Account
plus
Waterfall Commencement Date
first
second
third
Final Completion Account
Request Letters
Supplemental Request Letter
first
Transfer Prior to Notice of Action
first
fifteenth
Transfer After Notice of Action
first
second
plus
plus
third
plus
plus
fourth
fifth
sixth
first
fifth
seventh
NEG Guarantee
provided
fourth
fifth
fourth
fifth
Section 6. Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement
Participants
Priority Register
Roll-Up Register
Section 7. Mandatory Prepayments
first
second
third
over
fourth
fifth
provided
provided
provided
Section 8.  Optional Prepayments
Section 9. Roll-Up Loans
provided
Section 10. Certain Agreements of the Creditors and Parties
10.01  Subordination of Liens Securing Primed Obligations to Liens Securing Priority Obligations and Certain Related Bankruptcy Provisions
Priority Collateral
Collateral Proceeds
Turnover Property
10.02  Subordination of Liens Securing Residual Obligations to Liens Securing Roll-Up Obligations and Certain Related Bankruptcy Provisions
Roll-Up Collateral
Roll-Up Collateral Proceeds
Roll-Up Turnover Property
10.03  Amendments to Operative Documents
10.04  Enforcement; Forbearance; Reservation of Rights
10.05  Priority Credit Agreement; Authorization
10.06  DIP Facility.
10.07  Further Assurances with respect to Recharacterization
10.08  No Bankruptcy Proceedings, Etc
10.09  Further Agreements of NEG
10.10  Further Acknowledgment by the Company
10.11  Accession
10.12  Action by Priority Lenders
NEG Restructuring
provided
10.13  Structural Guaranty
Structural Guaranty Demand Amount
10.14  NEG Guarantee
NEG Demand Amount
10.15  Construction Agency Agreement; Reservation of Construction Agency Agreement Rights by Owner
provided
10.16  Investor Interests
10.17  Other Amounts
Section 11.  Interest on Settlement Amounts; Roll-Up Loans; Residual Loans
provided
provided
provided
provided
Section 12.  Certain Agreements and Confirmations Regarding Termination and Acceleration
12.01  Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement
12.02  Interest Hedge Contracts
12.03  Acceleration of Obligations; Termination of Commitments
12.04  Liability of Trustee
Section 13.  Conditions Precedent
Effective Date
Section 14.  Further Representations and Warranties
Section 15.  Miscellaneous
15.01  Notices
provided
15.02  Counterparts
15.03  Amendments
15.04  Headings
15.05  GOVERNING LAW
15.06  Severability
15.07Further Assurances
15.08  Successors and Assigns
15.09  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
15.10  Conflicts
15.11atification
15.12  RELEASE OF CLAIMS
15.14  Survival

          PRIORITY CREDIT AND REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of December 4, 2002 (this ""), among LA PALOMA GENERATING COMPANY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, as borrower (the ""), LA PALOMA GENERATING TRUST LTD., a Delaware statutory trust as co-obligor with the Company (the "") acting by and through the Wilmington Trust Company, not in its individual capacity, but solely as Trustee under the Trust Agreement, WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, in its individual capacity (in such capacity, the "") and as trustee of the Owner (in such capacity, the ""), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to this Agreement as lenders of the Priority Loans referred to herein and participants in the Priority Working Capital L/Cs referred to herein (in such capacity, the ""), CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as the issuer of the Priority Working Capital L/Cs referred to herein (in such capacity, the ""), CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as agent for the Priority Lenders hereunder (in such capacity and together with its successors in such capacity, the "") and CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as agent for the Lenders under the Operative Documents (in such capacity, the "").                                          Preliminary Statement           , pursuant to the Participation Agreement dated as of March 7, 2000 among the Company, the Trust Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Lenders party thereto, the Investors party thereto, the Security Agent and the Administrative Agent (as amended, the ""), and the other Operative Documents, the Company, the Owner and the other parties thereto agreed, among other things, to the terms and conditions of the construction and lease financing of the Project;            the Company and the Owner have defaulted on various payment obligations owing to the Creditors pursuant to the Operative Documents;            the Company, the Owner, the Trust Company, the Trustee and the Creditors, as of the date hereof, have entered into the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement pursuant to which the parties have agreed to certain amendments to, and modifications of, the Operative Documents to induce certain of the Creditors to extend credit to the Company and the Owner to complete construction of the Project as well as for general working capital purposes;           , the Priority Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent have agreed to enter into this Agreement to provide for additional funding to pay Subject Project Costs and general working capital needs and to finance draws on Priority Working Capital L/Cs upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.           , for good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:                          SECTION           . Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings given thereto in (a) Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement (and such capitalized terms and definitions thereof set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference (and the capitalized terms used in such definitions and their definitions are similarly so incorporated herein by reference) as the same are in effect on and as of the Effective Date (after giving effect to the transactions intended to occur on such date) as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, waiver, modification or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders) or (b) if not defined therein, in Annex A to the Participation Agreement (and such capitalized terms and definitions thereof set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference (and the capitalized terms used in such definitions and their definitions are similarly so incorporated herein by reference) as the same are in effect on and as of the Effective Date (after giving effect to the transactions intended to occur on such date) as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, waiver, modification or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders).           In addition, as used herein the following terms shall have the following meanings:           "" means any contract or agreement relating to the ownership, leasing, occupation, construction, testing, repair, operation, maintenance and use of the Project (other than Non-Material Project Contracts) entered into by the Company subsequent to the Effective Date.           "" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.           "" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1(h)(iii) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.6(a) of this Agreement.           "" means as to any Priority Lender at any time: (a) with respect to its Priority Construction Loan Commitment, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of such Priority Lender's Priority Construction Loan Commitment (ii) the aggregate principal amount of all Priority Construction Loans made by such Priority Lender which are then outstanding; and (b) with respect to its Priority Working Capital Loan Commitment, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of such Priority Lender's Priority Working Capital Loan Commitment (ii) the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Priority Working Capital Loans made by such Priority Lender which are then outstanding (B) the product of such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage and the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs outstanding at such time.           "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to close.           "" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.           "" has the meaning given to that term in the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" means (a) the 10 calendar day of each calendar month (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) and (b) the Priority Maturity Date.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.13(a) of this Agreement.           "" shall mean any contracts or agreements entered into by the Company in the ordinary course of business in connection with the ownership, leasing, occupation, construction, testing, repair, operation, maintenance and use of the Project under which the Company shall have obligations not in excess of $50,000 in total over the term of such contract.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.13(b) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in the first recital hereto.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1 of this Agreement.           "" means a Business Day on which the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) requests that Priority Construction Loans be made in accordance with this Agreement in order to pay Subject Project Costs.           "" means 5.75%.           "" means any condition or event which, with notice or lapse of time, determination of materiality or any combination of the foregoing, would become a Post-Effective Event of Default.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1 of this Agreement.           "" or "" means, for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Priority Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by the Priority Agent in connection with extensions of credit to debtors); each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change is publicly announced as effective. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1% of th e rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Priority Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized national standing selected by it. If for any reason the Priority Agent shall have determined that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Priority Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms thereof, the Priority ABR shall be determined without regard to clause (b) of the first sentence of this definition, as appropriate, until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Priority ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective R ate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.           "" means Priority Loans the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the ABR.           "" has the meaning given to that term in the caption hereto.                      "" means 6.75% per annum.           "" means, on each Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date with respect to each of the Priority Construction Loan Commitments and Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments, a fee computed at 1.00% per annum for such Class of Priority Commitments (calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for actual days elapsed) on the average daily amount of the Available Priority Commitments in respect of such Class of Priority Commitments during the related Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period.           "" means, with respect to any Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date during the Priority Commitment Period for any Priority Commitment, each monthly period ending on an Interest Date; that (a) the initial Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period for each Priority Commitment shall be the period from and including the Effective Date to and including December 10, 2002, and (b) the last Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period for each Priority Commitment shall be the period from and including the Interest Date immediately preceding the last day of the Priority Commitment Period for such Priority Commitment to and including the last day of the Priority Commitment Period for such Priority Commitment.           "" means each Interest Date and the last day of the Priority Commitment Period with respect to each Class of Priority Commitments ( the Priority Commitment Fee payable on the last day of the Priority Commitment Period for a Class shall be the Priority Commitment Fee due in respect of such Class of Priority Commitments).           "" means, as to any Priority Lender at any time, the percentage which the Priority Commitments of such Priority Lender then constitutes of the aggregate Priority Commitments of all Priority Lenders (or, at any time after such Priority Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of such Priority Lender's Priority Loans which are then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate principal amount of all Priority Loans which are then outstanding).           "" means: (a) with respect to the Priority Construction Loan Commitments, the period from and including the Effective Date to but not including the Priority Termination Date; and (b) with respect to the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments, the period from and including the Effective Date to but not including the earlier to occur of: (i) the Priority Expiration Date and (ii) the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated.           "" means the Priority Construction Loan Commitments and the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments.            "" means, as to any Priority Lender, the obligation of such Priority Lender to make Priority Construction Loans to the Owner and the Company under this Agreement in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Priority Lender's name on Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The initial aggregate amount of the Priority Construction Loan Commitments of all Priority Lenders is $40,000,000.            "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(b) of this Agreement.            "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of this Agreement.                      "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement.           "" means date four calendar days prior to the Priority Maturity Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day).           "" has the meaning set forth in the caption to this Agreement.           "" means Priority Construction Loans and Priority Working Capital Loans.           "" means the date falling 364 days after the Effective Date.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(b) of this Agreement.           "" means, at any time, all indebtedness, financial liabilities and obligations of the Company and the Owner, of whatsoever nature and howsoever evidenced (including, but not limited to, principal, interest, fees, reimbursement obligations, penalties, indemnities and legal and other expenses, whether due after acceleration or otherwise) to the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders and the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer under or pursuant to this Agreement.           "" means (a) with respect to any Priority Loan, the rate that would otherwise be applicable thereto plus 2%, and (b) with respect to any other amount, the amount that would be applicable to Priority Loans plus 2%.           "" means, for any period, an amount equal to the aggregate of (a) interest due and payable on (i) the Priority Loans and (ii) Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations and (b) Priority Commitment Fees, letter of credit fees with respect to Priority Working Capital L/Cs and other amounts payable pursuant to Section 3.3 of this Agreement.           "" means the earlier to occur of (a) the Priority Maturity Date and (b) the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.3(a) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of this Agreement.           "" means $35,000,000.           "" means, for each Priority Lender, such Priority Lender's participation interest in the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's liability under Priority Working Capital L/Cs and such Priority Lender's rights and interests in Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations and fees, interest and other amounts payable in respect of Priority Working Capital L/Cs and Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations.           "" has the meaning set forth in the caption of this Agreement.           "" means the obligation of the Company and the Owner, on a joint and several basis, to reimburse the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer pursuant to Section 3.5(a) of this Agreement for amounts drawn on Priority Working Capital L/Cs.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(b) of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 of this Agreement.           "" means as to any Priority Lender, the obligation of such Priority Lender to make Priority Working Capital Loans to the Company and the Owner and/or participate in any Priority Working Capital L/C under this Agreement in an aggregate principal and/or face amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Priority Lender's name on Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The initial aggregate amount of the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments of all Priority Lenders is $40,000,000.           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.6(a) of this Agreement.           "" means, at any time, Priority Lenders holding at least in excess of 50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Commitments outstanding at such time (or, in the case of Priority Commitments that have expired or been terminated, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Loans made under such Priority Commitments and outstanding at such time).           "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.2 of this Agreement.           "" has the meaning given to that term in the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           "" means the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002, among the Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company, each Tranche A Lender, each Tranche B Lender, each Investor, each Interest Hedge Party, the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and PG&E National Energy Group, Inc.           "" means all costs of acquiring, developing, financing and constructing the Project as set forth in the Project Budget, including: (a) all amounts payable by the Company or the Owner under the EPC Contract (other than EPC Contractor bonuses which are hereby specifically not designated as "Subject Project Costs" by the Company and the Owner and which are payable after the Completion Date), site acquisition and preparation costs and costs of acquisition and construction of the fuel handling facilities, all amounts payable by the Company or the Owner under the Generator Special Facilities Agreement, the Related Facilities Construction Contracts, the Facilities Construction Agreement, the other Construction Documents and all other costs of fuel, water and sewer interconnection and related facilities; (b) all other Project-related costs, including fuel-related costs, expenses of the Company or the Owner with respect to items t hat may be reimbursed by the EPC Contractor or any party to any other Construction Documents pursuant to warranty or other claims, pre-commercial operation fees and expenses under the Operating Agreement, management services fees and expenses, startup and testing costs, initial working capital costs, initial reserve fund requirements, and all other expenses to complete the acquisition, construction and financing and refinancing of the Project; (c) legal and other transaction costs related to this Agreement (including all reasonable costs, fees and expenses of counsel, consultants and other professionals (limited to Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, a single local California counsel satisfactory to the Priority Agent, Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, FTI Consulting and PA Consulting Group and such other counsel, consultants and professionals engaged with the consent of the Company) engaged by or on behalf of the Priority Agent); (d) Priority Scheduled Debt Service prior to the Waterfall Commencement Da te; (e) any amounts placed in escrow to cash collateralize the Company's obligations relating to construction of the Interconnection Facilities, if any; and (f) all development costs; that the term "Subject Project Costs" shall exclude, to the extent otherwise included above, any payment of fee, interest, yield, principal or other amounts due in respect of any Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Investor Contributions, Interest Hedge Obligations and/or other amounts due to the Creditors under the Operative Documents (other than this Agreement or the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement).           "" means the first Interest Date to occur on or after the Completion Date.           Priority Loans and Priority Commitments are distinguished by Class. The "" of a Priority Loan (or a Priority Commitment) refers to whether such Priority Loan (or Priority Commitment) is a Priority Construction Loan (or Priority Construction Loan Commitment) or a Priority Working Capital Loan (or Priority Working Capital Loan Commitment).            The rules of usage set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed in writing by the Require           . Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Priority Lender severally agrees to make loans (collectively, the "") to the Company and the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) from time to time during the Priority Commitment Period with respect to Priority Construction Loan Commitments in an aggregate principal amount at any time not in excess of such Priority Lender's Available Priority Commitment in respect of the Priority Construction Loan Commitments at such time, for the purpose of enabling the Company or the Owner to pay Subject Project Costs ( that, notwithstanding the restrictions on the use of proceeds of Priority Construction Loans set out in this Agreement, the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) may draw the full amount of the Available P riority Commitments on the first PCL Funding Date falling on or falling most recently after the Completion Date to be applied , to pay or provide for payment of Subject Project Costs to be incurred through Final Completion and second, to be deposited in the Revenue Account for application in accordance with Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement on the next Interest Date). Funding of Priority Construction Loans shall be effected on PCL Funding Dates which shall occur no more frequently than twice per calendar month.           . Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Priority Lender severally agrees to make loans (collectively, the "") to the Company and the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) from time to time during the Priority Commitment Period with respect to Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments in an aggregate principal amount at any time not in excess of such Priority Lender's Available Priority Commitment in respect of the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments at such time: (i) for the purpose of enabling the Company or the Owner to pay (A) Operating Costs and (B) on or after the Waterfall Commencement Date, Priority Scheduled Debt Service and (ii) in accordance with Section 3.5(c) of this Agreement. The Company may use the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments by borrowing, repaying the Priority Working Capital Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.                      (a)      . All Priority Loans shall be Priority ABR Loans.           (b)      . The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender the principal of such Priority Lender's Priority Loans outstanding on the Priority Maturity Date in a single installment on the Priority Maturity Date.           .           (a)      . The Company and the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) may borrow under the Priority Construction Loan Commitments during the Priority Commitment Period with respect to the Priority Construction Loan Commitments on any Business Day; that the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent an irrevocable Priority Construction Requisition in accordance with Section 4.2 of this Agreement specifying (i) the amount to be borrowed and (ii) the requested PCL Funding Date. Each borrowing under the Priority Construction Loan Commitments shall be in an amount equal to at least $500,000 (or, if the then aggregate Available Priority Commitments of the Priority Lenders with respect to the Priority Construction Loan Commitments are less than $500,000, such lesser amount). Up on receipt of any such Priority Construction Requisition from the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement), the Priority Agent shall promptly notify each Priority Lender thereof. Each Priority Lender will make the amount of its pro rata share of each borrowing available to the Priority Agent for the account of the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) at the Priority Agent's offices specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the PCL Funding Date requested by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) in immediately available funds to the Priority Agent, and the Priority Agent shall make such amounts available to the Security Agent for application in accordance with the provisions of the Security Deposit Agreement at the office of the Security Agent specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on such PCL Funding Date in immediately available funds to the Security Agent.           (b)      . The Company and the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) may borrow under the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments during the Priority Commitment Period on any Business Day; that the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) shall have delivered (except as the same is deemed delivered pursuant to Section 3.5(c) of this Agreement) to the Priority Agent an irrevocable Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice in accordance with Section 4.3 of this Agreement, specifying (i) the amount to be borrowed and (ii) the requested Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date. Each borrowing under the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments shall be in an amount equal to at least $500,000 (or, if (A) the then aggregate Available Priority Commitments of the Priority Lenders with respect to the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments a re less than $500,000, (B) the proceeds of such borrowing are to be used to refinance a Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation in an amount less than $500,000 or (C) the request is for the issuance of a Priority Working Capital L/C in a stated amount less than $500,000, such lesser amount). Upon receipt of any such Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice from the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement), the Priority Agent shall promptly notify each Priority Lender thereof. Each Priority Lender will make the amount of its pro rata share of each borrowing available to the Priority Agent for the account of the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) at the Priority Agent's offices specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date requested by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) in immediately available funds to t he Priority Agent, and the Priority Agent shall make such amounts available to the Security Agent for application in accordance with the provisions of the Security Deposit Agreement at the office of the Security Agent specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on such Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date in immediately available funds to the Security Agent.           . . The Priority Agent, on behalf of the Company and the Owner, shall maintain the Priority Register relating to Priority Loans pursuant to Section 8.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement in which shall be recorded (i) the amount of each Priority Loan made hereunder and any Priority Note evidencing such Priority Loan, (ii) the amount of each Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation arising hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Priority Agent hereunder from the Company or the Owner and each Priority Lender's share, if any, thereof.                . The Company agrees that, upon the request of the Priority Agent after a request by any Priority Lender, the Company will execute and deliver to such Priority Lender a promissory note substantially in the form of (i) in respect of Priority Construction Loans, Exhibit A hereto, with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (each, a "") evidencing the Priority Construction Loans of such Priority Lender and (ii) in respect of Priority Working Capital Loans, Exhibit B hereto, with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (each, a "" and, together with the Priority Construction Loan Notes, the "") evidencing the Priority Working Capital Loans of such Priority Lender.                      (a)      . The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay in arrears to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender the Priority Commitment Fee applicable to its Priority Construction Loan Commitment on each Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date. Promptly after receipt of payment of any Priority Commitment Fees payable to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof, the Priority Agent shall distribute such payment to the Priority Lenders pro rata according to their respective Priority Commitment Percentages.           (b)      . The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay in arrears to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender the Priority Commitment Fee applicable to its Priority Working Capital Loan Commitment on each Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date. Promptly after receipt of payment of any Priority Commitment Fees payable to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof, the Priority Agent shall distribute such payment to the Priority Lenders pro rata according to their respective Priority Commitment Percentages.           . (a) The Company and the Owner shall only prepay the Priority Loans in accordance with (i) Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement (as the same is in effect on and as of the Effective Date (after giving effect to the transactions intended to occur on such date) and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, waiver or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders) as modified by Section 7 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement and (ii) Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement with cash flow available on the Revenue Account Waterfall as required pursuant to such section.           (b)      Amounts prepaid on account of the Priority Construction Loans may not be reborrowed. Amounts prepaid on account of the Priority Working Capital Loans may be reborrowed in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.           . (a) The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Priority Loan made by such Priority Lender for the period from and including the date such Priority Loan is made to but excluding the date on which such Priority Loan is repaid in full at a rate per annum equal to the Priority ABR plus the PL Applicable Margin.           (b)      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender interest at the applicable Priority Overdue Rate on any principal of any Priority Loan made by such Priority Lender, any Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation held by such Priority Lender and on any other amount payable by the Company or the Owner hereunder (including interest on any Priority Loan or Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation) which shall not be paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by mandatory prepayment or otherwise and as well after as before judgment) for the period from and including the due date thereof to but excluding the date that the same shall be paid in full.           (c)      Interest shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Date and on the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated; that: (i) interest accruing pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 2.8 shall be payable from time to time on demand (and, in the event demand is not made, on each Interest Date) and (ii) each prepayment of the Priority Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the amount prepaid.           . (a) Whenever it is calculated on the basis of the Prime Rate, interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed; and, otherwise, interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year for the actual days elapsed. Any change in the interest rate on a Priority Loan resulting from a change in the Priority ABR shall become effective as set forth in the definition of Priority ABR based on whether the same is calculated on the basis of the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate. The Priority Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Company, the Owner and the Priority Lenders of the effective date and the amount of each such change in interest rate.           (b)      Each determination of an interest rate by the Priority Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, the Owner and the applicable Priority Lenders in the absence of manifest error. At the request of the Company, the Priority Agent shall deliver a statement showing the quotations used by the Priority Agent in determining any interest pursuant to Section 2.9(a) of this Agreement where the Priority ABR is determined based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate.           . (a) Each borrowing by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) from the Priority Lenders hereunder and any reduction of the Priority Commitments of the Priority Lenders shall be made pro rata within the Class of Priority Loans so borrowed or Class of Priority Commitments so reduced according to the respective Priority Commitment Percentages of the Priority Lenders. Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.7 of this Agreement, each payment (including each prepayment) by the Company or the Owner on account of principal of and interest on the Priority Loans of either Class shall be made pro rata within such Class according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Priority Loans of such Class then held by the Priority Lenders.           (b)      All payments (including prepayments) to be made by the Company and the Owner hereunder, whether on account of principal, interest or otherwise, shall be made without setoff or counterclaim and shall be made prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the due date therefor to the Priority Agent, for the account of the applicable Priority Lender or the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer hereunder, as the case may be, at the Priority Agent's office specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement, in Dollars and in immediately available funds, and the Priority Agent shall make available to each applicable Priority Lender, or the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, as the case may be, its pro rata share of each such payment prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time, in immediately available funds. If any payment hereunder becomes due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be extended t o the next succeeding Business Day. In the case of any extension of any payment of principal pursuant to the preceding two sentences, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate during such extension.
Agreement
Company
Owner
Trust Company
Trustee
Priority Lenders
Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer
Priority Agent
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS
Participation Agreement
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS
ACCORDINGLY
1. DEFINITIONS
1.1     
Defined Terms
mutatis mutandis
mutatis mutandis
Additional Project Contract
Administrative Agent
Agreement
Approved Replacement Contract
Assignment and Acceptance
Available Priority Commitment
over
over
plus
Business Day
Company
Effective Date
Interest Date
th
Non-Excluded Taxes
Non-Material Project Contracts
Non-US Lender
Owner
Participant
Participation Agreement
Petition Date
PCL Funding Date
PL Applicable Margin
Post-Effective Default
Post-Effective Event of Default
Priority ABR
Priority Alternate Base Rate
Prime Rate
Federal Funds Effective Rate
Priority ABR Loans
Priority Agent
Priority Commission Rate
Priority Commitment Fee
Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period
provided
Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date
provided
Priority Commitment Percentage
Priority Commitment Period
Priority Commitments
Priority Construction Loan Commitment
Priority Construction Loan Note
Priority Construction Loans
Priority Construction Requisition
Priority Expiration Date
Priority Lenders
Priority Loans
Priority Maturity Date
Priority Notes
Priority Obligations
Priority Overdue Rate
Priority Scheduled Debt Service
Priority Termination Date
Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date
Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice
Priority Working Capital L/C
Priority Working Capital L/C Commitment
Priority Working Capital L/C Interest
Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer
Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation
Priority Working Capital Note
Priority Working Capital Loans
Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments
Purchasing Lender
Required Priority Lenders
Rescission Direction
Roll-Up Loans
Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement
Subject Project Costs
provided
Waterfall Commencement Date
Class
1.2     
Rules of Usage
.
mutatis mutandis
d Priority Lenders.                 SECTION 2.      AMOUNT AND TERMS OF COMMITMENTS
2.1     
Priority Construction Loan Commitments
Priority Construction Loans
provided
first
2.2     
Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments
Priority Working Capital Loans
2.3     
All Priority Loans
Priority ABR Loans
Priority Maturity Date
2.4     
Procedure for Borrowing Priority Loans
Priority Construction Loans
provided
Priority Working Capital Loans
provided
2.5     
Evidence of Debt
Priority Register
Notes
Priority Construction Loan Note
Priority Working Capital Note
Priority Notes
2.6     
Commitment Fees
Priority Construction Loan Commitments
Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments
2.7     
Prepayments
2.8     
Interest Rates and Interest Dates
provided
2.9     
Computation of Interest
2.10     
Pro Rata Treatment and Payments
          (c)      Unless the Priority Agent shall have been notified in writing by any Priority Lender hereunder prior to a borrowing that such Priority Lender will not make its share of such borrowing available to the Priority Agent, the Priority Agent may assume that such Priority Lender is making such amount available to the Priority Agent, and the Priority Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Security Agent a corresponding amount. If such amount is not made available to the Priority Agent by the required time on the PCL Funding Date (in the case of Priority Construction Loans) or Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date (in the case of Priority Working Capital Loans) therefor, as the case may be, such Priority Lender shall pay to the Priority Agent, on demand, such amount with interest thereon at a rate equal to the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate for the period until such Priority Lender m akes such amount immediately available to the Priority Agent. A certificate of the Priority Agent submitted to any Priority Lender hereunder with respect to any amounts owing under this Section 2.10(c) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. If such Priority Lender's share of such borrowing is not made available to the Priority Agent by such Priority Lender within three (3) Business Days of such PCL Funding Date (in the case of Priority Construction Loans) or Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date (in the case of Priority Working Capital Loans), the Priority Agent shall also be entitled to recover such amount with interest thereon at the rate per annum applicable to Priority Loans hereunder, on demand, from the Company and the Owner as joint and several obligors; , that if the Company or the Owner repays such corresponding amount to the Priority Agent and such Priority Lender subsequently makes available its share of the borrowing to the Priority Agent, the Priority Agent shall promptly make such loan proceeds available to the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement). If such Priority Lender shall repay to the Priority Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Priority Lender's share of such borrowing. Upon receipt of notice from a Priority Lender that it will not make available to the Priority Agent its share of a borrowing or upon any failure of a Priority Lender to fund its portion of any such borrowing, the Priority Agent shall promptly provide the Company and the Owner with notice thereof.           . (a) If the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by any Priority Lender hereunder with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof:           (i)      shall subject any Priority Lender hereunder to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Priority Working Capital L/C, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Priority Lender in respect thereof (except for Non-Excluded Taxes covered by Section 2.13 of this Agreement and changes in the rate of tax on the overall net income of such Priority Lender) or a franchise tax in lieu of net income taxes;           (ii)      shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Priority Lender; or           (iii)      shall impose on such Priority Lender any other condition relating to the issuance of any Priority Working Capital L/C;           and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Priority Lender, by an amount which such Priority Lender deems to be material, of issuing or participating in Priority Working Capital L/Cs or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder in respect thereof, then, in any such case, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally agree to pay to such Priority Lender, on an After-Tax Basis, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such Priority Lender for such increased cost or reduced amount receivable on the next Interest Date (or, if earlier, the next date on which principal is due in respect of such Priority Lender) after the Company receives the notice required pursuant to the next sentence. If any Priority Lender hereunder becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this paragraph, it shall deliver to the Company and the Owner a notice setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of such increased costs o r reduced amount receivable and the basis for the determination of such amount, , that neither the Company nor the Owner shall be obligated to compensate such Priority Lender for the amount of such increased cost or reduced amount receivable incurred with respect to a period of time prior to the date which is 90 days before the date on which such Priority Lender first notifies the Company and the Owner that it intends to claim such compensation or that an event had occurred which will entitled it to such compensation.           (b)      If any Priority Lender hereunder shall have determined that any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by such Priority Lender or any corporation controlling such Priority Lender with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority, in each case made subsequent to the date hereof, has the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Priority Lender's or such corporation's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder or under any Priority Working Capital L/C to a level below that which such Priority Lender or such corporation could have achieved but for such change or compliance (taking into consideration such Priority Lender's or such corporation's policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Priority Lender to be material, then from time to time, after submission by such Priority Lender to the Company and the Owner of a written request (setting forth in reasonable detail the amount being charged by such Priority Lender and the basis for determination of such amount) therefor, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally agree to pay, on an After-Tax Basis, on the next Interest Date (or, if earlier, on the next date on which principal is due in respect of the Priority Loans) after the Company first receives such notice, to such Priority Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Priority Lender for such reduction, except that the Company and the Owner shall only be obligated to compensate such Priority Lender for the amount or amounts incurred with respect to a period of time from and after the date occurring 90 days before the date on which such Priority Lender first notifies the Company and the Owner.           (c)      A certificate as to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.11 submitted by such Priority Lender to the Company and the Owner (with a copy to the Priority Agent setting forth in reasonable detail the basis and calculation of such additional amounts) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. The agreements in this Section 2.11 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Priority Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.           . The Company and the Owner shall jointly and severally indemnify each Priority Lender hereunder against any direct (as opposed to consequential) loss or expense which such Priority Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of default by the Company or the Owner in making any prepayment after the Company or the Owner has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Participation Agreement. A certificate of any Priority Lender hereunder setting forth any amount or amounts (and in reasonable detail, the basis therefor) which such Priority Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 2.12 and evidencing a loss suffered by such Priority Lender of such amount or amounts shall be delivered to the Company and the Owner. The provisions of this Section 2.12 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Prior ity Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.           . (a) All payments made by the Company or the Owner under this Agreement shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any present or future income, stamp or other taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings, now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority, excluding net income taxes and franchise taxes (imposed in lieu of net income taxes) imposed on the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder as a result of a present or former connection between the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or re ceived a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement) (the provisions of this sentence shall not be deemed to limit any obligation of the Company and the Owner to pay any amount hereunder on an After-Tax Basis). If any such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings ("") are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder, the amounts so payable to the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender hereunder shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender (on an After-Tax Basis) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rates or in the amounts specified in this Agreement; , , that neither the Company nor the Owner shall be required to increase any such amounts payable to any Priority Lender described in paragraph (b) below of this Section 2.13 if such Priority Lender fails to comply with the require ments of such paragraph (b). Whenever such Non-Excluded Taxes are payable by the Company or the Owner, as promptly as possible thereafter the Company or the Owner shall send to the Priority Agent for its own account or for the account of such Priority Lender, as the case may be, a certified copy of an original official receipt received by the Company or the Owner showing payment thereof. If the Company or the Owner fails to pay any Non-Excluded Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to the Priority Agent the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, the Company and the Owner shall jointly and severally indemnify the Priority Agent and the Priority Lenders hereunder for any incremental taxes, interest or penalties that may become payable by the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder as a result of any such failure. The agreements in this Section 2.13 (a) shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Priority Loans and all other am ounts payable hereunder. No provision of this Section 2.13 shall be interpreted to limit any party's rights for indemnification under any provision of any other Operative Document; that no party shall be entitled to a double recovery with respect to any claim under this Section 2.13.           (b)      Each Priority Lender or assignee under Section 10.6 of this Agreement that is not a citizen or resident of the United States of America, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States of America, or any estate or trust that is subject to federal income taxation regardless of the source of its income (a "") shall deliver to the Company and the Priority Agent (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Priority Lender hereunder from which the related participation shall have been purchased) two copies of either IRS Form W-8BEN, or Form W-8ECI, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto, properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from, or a reduced rate of, U.S. federal withholding tax on all payments by the Company or the Owner under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents . Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of any Participant, on or before the date such Participant purchases the related participation). In addition, each Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Lender. Each Non-U.S. Lender shall promptly notify the Company and the Owner at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate to the Company and the Owner (or any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose).           . Each Priority Lender hereunder agrees that if it makes any demand for payment under Section 2.11 or 2.13(a) of this Agreement, or if any applicable Requirement of Law prevents the issuance by it of any Priority Working Capital L/C it will use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions and so long as such efforts would not be disadvantageous to it, as determined in its sole discretion) to designate a different lending office if the making of such a designation would reduce or obviate the need for the Company or the Owner to make payments under Section 2.11 or 2.13(a) of this Agreement, or would permit the issuance of any Priority Working Capital L/C in the event any applicable Requirement of Law would otherwise prevent such issuance.                     (a)      A Class of Priority Commitments shall terminate on the last day of the Priority Commitment Period with respect to such Class.           (b)      Without the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, there shall be no reduction in the Priority Commitment with respect to either Class prior to the end of the Priority Commitment Period therefor other than (i) as provided in clause (c) below and (ii) in connection with a Post-Effective Event of Default as provided in Section 7.2 of this Agreement.           (c)      In connection with any prepayment of the Priority Construction Loans under Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement (as the same is in effect on and as of the Effective Date (after giving effect to the transactions intended to occur on such date) and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, waiver or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders), the Priority Construction Loan Commitments shall be reduced automatically and permanently by an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Priority Construction Loans prepaid hereunder.           . The Priority Agent shall be paid a fee of $150,000 per annum for performing the duties of the Priority Agent under the Operative Documents. The Company shall pay such fee to the Priority Agent on the Effective Date and on each anniversary thereof. This fee, once paid, shall be non-refundable.                                . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, in reliance on the agreements of the other Priority Lenders set forth in Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement, agrees to issue Priority Working Capital L/Cs (each, a "") for the account of the Company and the Owner (provided that if the Petition Date has occurred, Priority Working Capital L/Cs may be issued only for the account of the Owner) on any Business Day during the Priority Commitment Period with respect to the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments; that the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall not issue any Priority Working Capital L/C if, after giving effect to such issuance, (i) the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs outstanding at such time would exceed the Priority Working Capital L/C Commitment or (ii) the aggregate amount of the Available Priority Commitments with respect to Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments after giving effect to such issuance would be less than zero.           (b)      Each Priority Working Capital L/C shall expire no later than the date that is five (5) Business Days prior to the Priority Expiration Date. At the time of any disbursement made by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer under any Priority Working Capital L/C, the amount available to be drawn under such Priority Working Capital L/C shall be reduced by the amount of such disbursement.           (c)      The Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall not at any time be obligated to issue any Priority Working Capital L/C hereunder if such issuance would conflict with, or cause the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender participating therein to exceed any limits imposed by, any applicable Requirement of Law.           (d)      Each Priority Working Capital L/C shall (i) provide for at least three Business Days from the receipt by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer of a draft demanding payment on such Priority Working Capital L/C from the beneficiary thereunder until payment is due by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer to the beneficiary thereunder, (ii) be otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer and (iii) be subject to the Uniform Customs and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the law of the State of New York.           . To request the issuance of a Priority Working Capital L/C (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Priority Working Capital L/C), the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) shall hand deliver to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer and the Priority Agent (reasonably in advance of (but, in any event, at least three Business Days prior to) the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice (a) (i) requesting the issuance of a Priority Working Capital L/C or (ii) identifying the Priority Working Capital L/C to be amended, renewed or extended and (b) specifying (i) the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the date on which such Priority Working C apital L/C is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (b) of Section 3.1 of this Agreement), (iii) the amount of such Priority Working Capital L/C, (iv) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and (v) such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Priority Working Capital L/C. If requested by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Company also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's standard form in connection with any request for a Priority Working Capital L/C. The Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall not amend, renew or extend any Priority Working Capital L/C if, after giving effect to such amendment, renewal or extension: (x) the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Priority Working Capital L/Cs outstanding at such time would exceed the Priority Working Capital L/C Commitment or (y) the aggregate amount of the Available Priority Commitments with respect to the Priority Working Capital Loan Commitments after giving effect to such amendment, renewal or extension would be less than zero. The Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall furnish a copy of each Priority Working Capital L/C to the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) promptly following the issuance thereof or any amendment, renewal or extension thereto. The Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall promptly furnish to the Priority Agent, which shall in turn promptly furnish to the Priority Lenders, notice of the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Priority Working Capital L/C (including the amount thereof).           . )(a) The Company and the Owner jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent, for the account of each Priority Lender, a Priority Working Capital L/C commission with respect to each Priority Working Capital L/C, computed for the period from and including the date of issuance of such Priority Working Capital L/C to the date upon which such Priority Working Capital L/C expires, at the rate equal to the Priority Commission Rate, calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed, on the product of (i) such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage and (ii) the average daily amount available to be drawn under such Priority Working Capital L/C during the period for which payment is made, payable monthly in arrears on each Interest Date occurring after the issuance date for such Priority Work ing Capital L/C. Such commissions shall be nonrefundable.           (b)      The Company and the Owner jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent, for the account of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, a fronting fee with respect to each Priority Working Capital L/C, computed for the period from and including the date of issuance of such Priority Working Capital L/C to the date upon which such Priority Working Capital L/C expires, at the rate per annum equal to the product of (i) 0.25% and (ii) the sum of the Priority Commitment Percentages of the Priority Lenders other than the Priority Lender which is the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, on the average daily amount available to be drawn under such Priority Working Capital L/C during the period for which payment is made, payable monthly in arrears on each Interest Date occurring after the issuance date of such Priority Working Capital L/C and on the expiration date of such Priority Working Capital L/C. Such fronting fee shall be non-refundable.           (c)      In addition to the foregoing fees, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally promise to pay or reimburse the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer on demand for (i) such normal and customary costs and expenses as are incurred or charged by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer in issuing, amending or otherwise administering any Priority Working Capital L/C and (ii) any taxes, fees, charges or other costs or expenses incurred by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer in connection with effecting payment under any Priority Working Capital L/C.           (d)      The Priority Agent shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, distribute to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer and the Priority Lenders all fees and commissions received by the Priority Agent pursuant to this Section 3.3 as their interests appear.           .           (a)      By the issuance of a Priority Working Capital L/C (or an amendment to a Priority Working Capital L/C increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or the Priority Lenders, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each Priority Lender, and, to induce the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer to issue Priority Working Capital L/Cs hereunder, each Priority Lender irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and hereby accepts and purchases from the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, on the terms and conditions hereinafter stated, for such Priority Lender's own account and risk an undivided interest equal to such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage in the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's obligations and rights under each Priority Working Capital L/C issued hereunder and the amount of each draft paid by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer thereunder. Each Priority Lender unconditionally and irrevocably agrees with the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer that, if a draft is paid under any Priority Working Capital L/C for which the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer is not reimbursed in full by the Company or the Owner pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, such Priority Lender shall pay to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer upon demand by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer at the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer's address for notices specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement an amount equal to such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage of such Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation or any part thereof which is not so reimbursed. Each Priority Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Priority Working Capital L/Cs is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Priority Working Capital L/C or the occurrence and continuance of a Post-Effective Default or reduction or termination of the Priority Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Any payment made by a Priority Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer for any draft paid by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer under any Priority Working Capital L/C (other than the funding of Priority Loans) shall not constitute a Priority Loan and shall not relieve the Company or the Owner of their joint and several obligation to pay the outstanding Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation.           (b)      If any amount required to be paid by any Priority Lender to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer pursuant to Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement is paid to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer within three (3) Business Days after the date such payment is due, such Priority Lender shall pay to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer on demand an amount equal to the product of (i) such amount, times (ii) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate during the period from and including the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of which is 360. If any such amount required to be paid by any Priority Lender pursuant to Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement is not made available to the Priority Working Capital L/ C Issuer by such Priority Lender within three (3) Business Days after the date such payment is due, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Priority Lender, on demand, such amount with interest thereon calculated from such due date at the rate per annum applicable to Priority Loans. A certificate of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer submitted to any Priority Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this Section shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.           (c)      Whenever, at any time after the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer has made payment under the Priority Working Capital L/C and has received from any Priority Lender its pro rata share of such payment in accordance with Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer receives any payment related to such Priority Working Capital L/C (whether directly from the Company, the Owner, the Priority Agent or otherwise, including proceeds of Collateral applied thereto by the Security Agent), or any payment of interest on account thereof, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer will distribute to such Priority Lender its pro rata share thereof; , r, that in the event that any such payment received by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall be required to be returned by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, such Priority Lender shall return to the Priority Working C apital L/C Issuer the portion thereof previously distributed by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer to it.           .           (a) The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally agree to reimburse the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer on each date on which the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer notifies the Company or, if the Owner is the account party, the Owner of the date and amount of a draft presented under any Priority Working Capital L/C and paid by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer for the amount of such draft so paid. Each such payment shall be made without set-off or counterclaim to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer as provided in Section 2.10(b) of this Agreement in lawful money of the United States and in immediately available funds.           (b) Interest shall be payable on Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations and any and all other amounts remaining unpaid by the Company or the Owner under this Section from the date such amounts become payable until payment in full at the Priority Overdue Rate with respect to Priority Loans.           (c) Each drawing under a Priority Working Capital L/C shall constitute a request by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) for a borrowing pursuant to Section 2.2 of this Agreement of Priority Working Capital Loans in the amount of such drawing. The Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date with respect to such borrowing shall be the date of payment by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer of such drawing. If the conditions to such borrowing are met or waived in accordance with Section 4.3 of this Agreement, the proceeds of such borrowing shall be applied to finance the Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation as and when the same arises.           . The Company's and the Owner's joint and several reimbursement obligations in respect of any drawing under a Priority Working Capital L/C shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment that the Company or the Owner may have or have had against the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, any beneficiary of a Priority Working Capital L/C or any other Person. The Company and the Owner also agree with each Priority Lender that such Priority Lender shall not be responsible for, and the Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even though such documents shall in fact prove to be invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Company or the Owner and any beneficiary of any Priority Working Capital L/C or any other party to which such Priority Working Capital L/C may be transferred or any claims whatsoever of the Company or the Owner against any beneficiary of such Priority Working Capital L/C or any such transferee. The Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall not be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Priority Working Capital L/C, except for errors or omissions found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer. The Company and the Owner agree that any action taken or omitted by the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer under or in connection with any Priority Working Capital L/C or the related drafts or documents, if done in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct a nd in accordance with the standards of care specified in the Uniform Customs and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the law of the State of New York, shall be binding on the Company and the Owner and shall not result in any liability of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer to the Company or the Owner.           . If any draft shall be presented for payment under any Priority Working Capital L/C, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer shall promptly notify the Company, the Owner, the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent of the date and amount thereof; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Company or the Owner of its obligation to reimburse the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer and the Priority Lenders with respect to any such payment. The responsibility of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer to the Company in connection with any draft presented for payment under any Priority Working Capital L/C shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such Priority Working Capital L/C, be limited to determining that the documents (including each draft) d elivered under such Priority Working Capital L/C in connection with such presentment are substantially in conformity with such Priority Working Capital L/C.           . If any Post-Effective Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Company or the Owner receives notice from the Priority Agent or the Required Priority Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally agree to deposit in the Priority Working Capital L/C Account for the benefit of the Priority Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Priority Working Capital L/Cs as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Post-Effective Event of Default with respect to the Company or the Owner described in clause (k)(ii) of Section 7.1 of this Agreement. Moneys in such account shall be applied in accordance with the Security Deposit Agreement.                                         . The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the occurrence of the Effective Date under the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.           . The obligation of each Priority Lender to make Priority Construction Loans on a PCL Funding Date is subject to the fulfillment to the satisfaction of, or waiver by, the Priority Agent acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders of the following conditions precedent on or prior to such PCL Funding Date:           (a)      the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent shall have received a duly executed counterpart of an appropriately completed requisition in the form of Exhibit C (a "") delivered by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) not later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time at least three Business Days prior to such PCL Funding Date. Each Priority Construction Requisition shall include the following:           (i) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that the funds required by such Priority Construction Requisition will be used solely to pay the Subject Project Costs identified therein;           (ii) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that, except as previously disclosed in writing to the Administrative Agent (prior to the Effective Date) or the Priority Agent, the work performed to date has been satisfactorily performed in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with the Construction Documents;           (iii) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that undisbursed funds in the Construction Account and the remaining funds available during the Priority Commitment Period under the Priority Construction Loan Commitments are reasonably expected to be sufficient to complete the Project in accordance with the Construction Documents by the Outside Completion Date;           (iv) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that (A) all proceeds of prior Requisitions and Priority Construction Requisitions have been expended or applied pursuant to the provisions of the relevant Operative Documents and the Project Budget or remain in the Construction Account to be applied against prior Requisitions or Priority Construction Requisitions and the Project Budget and (B) the items for which amounts are requested in the subject Priority Construction Requisition have not been the basis for a previous Requisition or Priority Construction Requisition;           (v) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default has occurred and is continuing           (vi) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement and the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are true and accurate in all material respects as if made on and as of such PCL Funding Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date;           (vii) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that the Insurance Requirements are satisfied;           (viii) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that, since the Effective Date, no event, condition or circumstance has occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and           (ix) confirmation by the Independent Engineer as to the matters set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) above; and           (b) no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing;           (c) since the Effective Date, no event, condition or circumstance has occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and           (d) the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement and the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are true and accurate in all material respects as if made on and as of such PCL Funding Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date.           . The obligations of the Priority Lenders to provide Priority Working Capital Loans under Section 2.2 of this Agreement and the obligation of the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer to issue, amend or extend any Priority Working Capital L/C are subject to the fulfillment to the satisfaction of, or waiver by the Priority Agent (acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders) of, each of the following conditions precedent on such Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date.           (a) Except with respect to a Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice deemed delivered pursuant to Section 3.5(c) of this Agreement (for which no notice need be delivered pursuant to this Section 4.3(a)), the Priority Agent shall have received a duly executed counterpart of an appropriately completed borrowing notice in the form of Exhibit D (a "") delivered by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) not later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time at least one Business Day prior to a proposed borrowing date under Section 2.2 of this Agreement or three Business Days prior to a proposed issuance date for a Priority Working Capital L/C under Section 3.2 of this Agreement (such proposed date, a ""). Each Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice shall include the following           (i) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (both before and after giving effect to the requested borrowing);           (ii) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement and the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are true and accurate in all material respects as if made on and as of the Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date;           (iii) a description by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) as to the use of the proceeds of the Priority Working Capital Loans being requested and a certification by the Independent Engineer that such Priority Working Capital Loans are required by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) to pay Operating Costs and/or Priority Scheduled Debt Service;           (iv) in the event that the Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice requests the issuance of a Priority Working Capital L/C, the information required by Section 3.2 of this Agreement;           (v) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that since the Effective Date, no event, condition or circumstance has occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;           (b) no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (both before and after giving effect to the requested borrowing);           (c) since the Effective Date, no event, condition or circumstance has occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and           (d) the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement and the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are true and accurate in all material respects as if made on and as of such Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date.                                . The Company represents and warrants to each of the other parties hereto as of the Effective Date, each PCL Funding Date and each Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date as follows:           . The Company (i) is a limited liability company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (ii) has all requisite limited liability company power, authority and legal right to own, lease and operate the Project and other property and assets it purports to own or lease and to carry on its business as now being conducted and as proposed to be conducted in respect of the Project; (iii) is duly qualified as a foreign limited liability company in the State of California and is duly authorized to do business in each other jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify would not materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents; and (iv) has all requisite limit ed liability company power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each Transaction Document and each other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby to which it is a party.           . The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each Transaction Document to which it is a party and the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby (i) have been duly authorized by all requisite action, including, if required, member action on the part of the Company and (ii) will not (A) violate, result in the breach of or constitute a default under, any Legal Requirement or Requirement of Law or Contractual Obligation applicable to or binding on it as of the date hereof, (B) be in conflict with or result in a breach of the limited liability company agreement of the Company or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a Default, Event of Default, Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default or (C) result in or require the creation or impo sition of any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) upon or with respect to any of the Collateral.           . Each Transaction Document to which the Company is a party has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability (i) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (ii) is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).           . No consent or other action by (i) any holder or trustee of any indebtedness or other obligations of the Company or (ii) any other Person under any Legal Requirement, Requirement of Law or Contractual Obligation applicable to or binding on the Company is or will be required by the Company in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each Transaction Document to which it is a party and the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except such as have been made or obtained and are in full force and effect.           . The financial statements of the Company furnished to the Creditors pursuant to Section 5.1(c)(i) and (ii) of the Participation Agreement most recently prior to the Effective Date fairly present, and each financial statement of the Company delivered on or after the Effective Date pursuant to this Agreement will fairly present, the financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of such dates and for such periods. All such financial statements were or will be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.           . The Company has not engaged in any business or activity other than in connection with the development, acquisition, construction, leasing, operation and financing of the Project.           . Except as set forth on Schedule 5.1(g) to this Agreement, there is no (i) injunction, writ, preliminary restraining order or other order of any nature by an arbitrator, court or any other Governmental Authority, or (ii) action, suit, arbitration, investigation or proceeding at law or in equity by or before any arbitrator, court or any Governmental Authority pending against the Company or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened against the Company or any property or other assets or rights of the Company with respect to any Transaction Document, the Project or against any other Material Project Participant, that would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.           . Except as set forth on Schedule 5.1(h) to this Agreement and with respect to which arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Agent have been made, the Company and the Project are in compliance with all Legal Requirements, Governmental Actions applicable to either the Company or the Project and all material terms and provisions of all Project Contracts, except for such noncompliance as in any case would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.           . No Post-Effective Event of Default or Post-Effective Default has occurred and is continuing.           . Neither the Company nor any of the members in the Company is engaged, directly or indirectly, principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending, or arranging for the extension of, credit for the purposes of purchasing or carrying any margin stock, within the meaning of Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. No part of the proceeds of any loans will be used for "purchasing" or "carrying" any "margin stock" as so defined, or for extending credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, or for any purpose which would violate, or cause a violation of, any such regulation.           . The Company is not an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act.           .           (i)      The Company was determined by an order of the FERC issued November 23, 1999, in Docket No. EG00-5-000, 89 FERC Paragraph 62,148 (1999), to be an EWG. As a result of such order, the Company is an EWG and as such cannot be considered to be an "electric utility company" or a "public utility company" under PUHCA and is exempt from all provisions of PUHCA (other than section 9(a)(2) thereof). Such order was validly issued by the FERC and is final and in full force and effect. Neither such order nor the status of the Company as an EWG is the subject of any pending or threatened judicial or administrative proceeding.            (ii)      The Company was granted by an order of the FERC issued November 23, 1999, in Docket No. ER00-107-000, 89 FERC Paragraph 61,202 (1999), and continues to have, authority under the Federal Power Act to sell at wholesale, from the Project or otherwise, electric capacity and energy and certain energy-related products at "market-based" rates, and such authority is not subject to any rate cap (whether based on cost or otherwise) or any other market power mitigation measure. Such order was validly issued by the FERC and is final and in full force and effect, and all applicable periods for the filing of any request for rehearing or application for judicial review of such order have expired without any such request or application having been filed. Neither such order nor such authority of the Company is the subject of any pending or threatened judicial or administrative proceeding.           (iii)      The Owner was determined by an order of the FERC issued February 25, 2000 in Docket No. EG00 -75-000, 90 FERC Paragraph 62,136 (2000), to be an EWG. As a result of such order, the Owner is an EWG and as such cannot be considered to be an "electric utility company" or a "public utility company" under PUHCA and is exempt from all provisions of PUHCA (other than section 9(a)(2) thereof). Such order was validly issued by the FERC and is final and in full force and effect. Neither such order nor the status of the Owner as an EWG is the subject of any pending or threatened judicial or administrative proceeding.           (iv)      The Company is not, and will not by reason of (A) the leasing, operation or maintenance of the Project by the Company, (B) the ownership of the Project by the Owner or the leasing of the Project by the Owner to the Company as contemplated by the Transaction Documents, (C) the making of loans or other extensions of credit or investments as contemplated by the Transaction Documents or (D) any other transaction contemplated by any Transaction Document, be or otherwise become a "public utility" as defined for purposes of the California Public Utilities Code (including any of the rules and regulations thereunder).           (v)      Neither the Owner nor any Creditor will, solely by reason of (A) the leasing, operation or maintenance of the Project by the Company, (B) the ownership of the Project by the Owner or the leasing of the Project by the Owner to the Company as contemplated by the Transaction Documents, (C) the making of loans or other extensions of credit or investments as contemplated by the Transaction Documents or (D) any other transaction contemplated by any Transaction Document, be or otherwise become a "public utility", a "public utility company", a "public utility holding company", an "electric utility" or an "electric utility company" (or an affiliate of any thereof) under PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or the California Public Utilities Code (including any of the rules and regulations under any thereof) or otherwise subject to regulation under PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or the California Public Utilities Code (including any of the rules and regulations under any thereof).           . The Company has filed, or caused to be filed, all Federal, state, local and foreign tax and information returns that are required to have been filed by it in any jurisdiction, and has paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes and assessments payable by it, to the extent the same have become due and payable, except to the extent there is a good faith contest thereof by appropriate proceedings by the Company which are described on Schedule 5.1(m) to this Agreement and for which the Company shall have set aside adequate reserves to the extent required by GAAP.           . The Owner and the Company have good title to, or a valid leasehold, license, easement or other interest in, the Facility Site, the Appurtenant Rights relating to the Facility Site and the tangible personal property forming a part of the Collateral purported to be covered by the Security Documents to which it is a party, subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens (and Mechanic's Liens in excess of $3 million with respect to which the Priority Agent has not yet notified the Company or the Owner that the existence of such Mechanic's Liens constitutes a Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default under Section 7.1(c) of this Agreement). Except to the extent possession is required for perfection, all filings, recordings, registrations and other actions have been made, obtained and taken in all relevant juri sdictions that are necessary to create and perfect the Liens in all right, title, estate and interest of the Company and the Owner in the personal property forming the Collateral, subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens (and Mechanic's Liens in excess of $3 million with respect to which the Priority Agent has not yet notified the Company or the Owner that the existence of such Mechanic's Liens constitutes a Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default under Section 7.1(c) of this Agreement).           . The Company has obtained and holds in full force and effect all patents, trademarks, copyrights and other such rights or adequate licenses therein, free from restrictions which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, which are necessary for the ownership, operation and maintenance of the Project.           . The Company does not sponsor, maintain, administer, contribute to, participate in, or have any obligation to contribute to or any liability under, any employee benefit plan within the meaning of section 3(3) of ERISA nor since the date which is six years immediately preceding the Effective Date has the Company established, sponsored, maintained, administered, contributed to, participated in, had any obligation to contribute to or liability under, any such plan. The Company and each ERISA Affiliate are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code and all other laws applicable to such plans, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.           . (i) All material Governmental Actions necessary for the construction, operation, use, leasing and ownership of the Project, and all Governmental Actions necessary for the routine maintenance of the Project, are identified in Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement, (ii) all Governmental Actions necessary for the construction and operation of the Project, and all Governmental Actions necessary for the routine maintenance of the Project, that have been obtained on or prior to the Effective Date (which Governmental Actions are set forth on Part A of Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement) have been duly obtained and are in full force and effect on the Effective Date and, except as specified on Part A of Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement, are not subject to any appeal or further proceeding and (iii) the Company has no reason to believe that all Governmental Actions necessary for the construction, operation, use, leasing, ownership and routine maintenance of the Project that have not been obtained on or prior to the Effective Date (which Governmental Actions are set forth on Part B of Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement) will not be obtained in the ordinary course of business on or prior to the date such Governmental Actions will be required to permit the timely construction, operation, use, leasing, ownership and routine mainten. All utility services, road way access and fuel and power connection services necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the Project for its intended purposes are or will be available for the Project as and when required on commercially reasonable terms.           (s)      . Priority Working Capital L/Cs issued for the account of the Company and the proceeds of the Priority Loans received directly by the Company shall be applied by the Company solely in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.1(w) of this Agreement.           . The Owner represents and warrants to each of the other parties hereto as follows:. The Owner (i) is a statutory trust duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (ii) has all requisite trust power, authority and legal right to own the Project and other property and assets it purports to own and to carry on its business as now being conducted and as proposed to be conducted in respect of the Project; (iii) is duly authorized to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify would not materially and adversely affect the Owner's ability to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents; and (iv) has all requisite trust power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each Transaction Document and each other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby to which it is a party.           ; . The execution, delivery and performance of each Operative Document to which it is a party has been duly authorized by all necessary action on its part and neither the execution and delivery thereof by the Owner, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby by the Owner, nor compliance by it with any of the terms and provisions thereof (i) requires or will require any approval (which approval has not been obtained) of any party or approval or consent of any trustee or holders of any indebtedness or obligations of the Owner; (ii) contravenes or will contravene any Legal Requirement or Requirement of Law applicable to or binding on it as of the date hereof; (iii) does or will contravene or result in any breach of or constitute any default under, or result in the creation of any Lien on any of its property under, any indenture, mortgage, chattel mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, bank loan or credit agreement or other material agreement or material instrument to which it is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound; or (iv) does or will require any Governmental Action by any Governmental Authority.           . Each Operative Document to which it is a party has been duly executed and delivered by it and constitutes, or upon execution and delivery will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against it in accordance with the terms thereof except as such enforceability (i) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (ii) is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).           . No litigation, investigation or proceeding of or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending or threatened by or against the Owner (i) with respect to any of the Operative Documents or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (ii) that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets, liabilities, operations, business or financial condition of the Owner.           . The Owner has not assigned or transferred any of its right, title or interest in or under, any Operative Document or the Project, except in accordance with the Operative Documents.           . Priority Working Capital L/Cs issued for the account of the Owner and the proceeds of the Priority Loans received directly by the Owner shall be applied by the Owner solely in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.3(j) of this Agreement.           . The Trust's principal place of business, chief executive office and office where the documents, accounts and records relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and each other Operative Document are kept is located at the offices of the Trust Company in Wilmington, Delaware.           . The Trust Company represents and warrants to each of the other parties hereto that:           . It is a Delaware banking corporation duly organized and validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has the power and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under the Trust Agreement and has the corporate power and authority to act as the trustee under the Trust Agreement and to enter into and perform the obligations under each of the other Operative Documents to which Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, is or will be a party and each other agreement, instrument and document to be executed and delivered by it on or before the Effective Date in connection with or as contemplated by each such Operative Document to which the Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, is or will be a party.           . The execution, delivery and performance of each Operative Document to which it or (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of the Trust Agreement by the Investors) the Owner, as the case may be, is a party has been duly authorized by all necessary action on its part and neither the execution and delivery thereof, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, nor compliance by it with any of the terms and provisions thereof (i) does or will require any approval or consent of any trustee or holders of any of its indebtedness or obligations; (ii) does or will contravene any current United States federal law, governmental rule or regulation relating to its banking or trust powers; (iii) does or will contravene or result in any breach of or constitute any default under, or res ult in the creation of any Lien upon any of its property under, its charter or by-laws, or any indenture, mortgage, chattel mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, bank loan or credit agreement or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound or affected; or (iv) does or will require any Governmental Action by any Governmental Authority of the United States or the State of Delaware regulating its banking or trust powers.           . The Trust Agreement and, assuming the Trust Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Investor, each other Operative Document to which Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, is a party have been, or on or before the Effective Date will be, duly executed and delivered by Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, and the Trust Agreement and each such other Operative Document to the extent entered into by the Trust Company constitutes, or upon execution and delivery will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Trust Company in accordance with the terms thereof except as such enforceability (A) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights an d remedies generally and (B) is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).           . No action, investigation, suit or proceeding of or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending or threatened by or against the Trust Company with respect to any of the Operative Documents to which it is or will be a party or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.           . It is not an "electric utility", "electric utility company", "public utility", "public-utility company", "holding company" or a "subsidiary" or "affiliate" of any of the foregoing, under the Federal Power Act or PUHCA.                          SECTION           . Unless and until all Priority Obligations have been paid in full and the Priority Commitments have been terminated or expired, the Company covenants and agrees that:. The Company shall at all times (i) preserve and maintain in full force and effect (A) its existence as a limited liability company and its good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and its qualification to do business in the State of California and (B) its qualification to do business in each other jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or in which the transaction of its business as conducted or proposed to be conducted makes such qualification necessary, (ii) except as otherwise expressly permitted in the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders), obtain and maintain in full force and effect all material Governmental Actions and other consents and approvals required at any time in connection with the construction, use, leasing, maintenance, ownership or operation of the Project, and (iii) except as otherwise expressly permitted in the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders), preserve and maintain good and marketable title to or a valid leasehold, easement or other interest in its properties and assets (subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens (and Mechanic's Liens in excess of $3 million with respect to which the Priority Agent has not yet notified the Company or the Owner that the existence of such Mechanic's Liens constitutes a Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default under Section 7.1(c) of this Agreement)).           . The Company shall keep proper books and records and accounts in accordance with GAAP and in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Legal Requirements, Requirements of Law and Governmental Actions and make the same available for inspection by the Priority Agent and each Priority Lender.           . The Company shall furnish to the Priority Agent:           (i)      all financial statements required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.1(c)(i) and (ii) of the Participation Agreement (which provisions are hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed by the Required Priority Lenders) as and when the same are due to be delivered to the Administrative Agent thereunder;           (ii)      on or before the fifteenth Business Day of each calendar month, an unaudited balance sheet for the Company and contemporaneously with the delivery thereof, copies of all reports, financial information, statements and other documents delivered to NEG's revolving credit lenders; and           (iii)      each time the financial statements of the Company are delivered under clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 6.1(c), a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company shall be delivered along with such financial statements, certifying that such Responsible Officer has made or caused to be made a review of the transactions and financial condition of the Company during the relevant fiscal period and that such review has not, to the best of such Responsible Officer's knowledge, disclosed the existence of any event or condition which constitutes a Post-Effective Default or a Post-Effective Event of Default or if any such event or condition existed or exists, the nature thereof and the corrective actions that the Company has taken or proposes to take with respect thereto (and the Company shall deliver a copy of said certificate to the Administrative Agent).           . The Company shall comply with, and shall ensure that the Project is constructed and operated in compliance with, and shall make such alterations to the Project as may be required for compliance with, all applicable Legal Requirements and Governmental Actions, except where non-compliance would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.           .           (i)      Promptly upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Company shall give notice to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent of: (A) any Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default, together with a description of any action being taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto and (B) timely notice of the commencement of any material litigation or other proceeding against NEG or any of its Subsidiaries.           (ii)      Promptly upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Company shall give notice to the Priority Agent of any matter for which the Company is required to give notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.1(e) of the Participation Agreement (which provisions are hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed by the Required Priority Lenders).                      (i)      promptly after its receipt thereof, deliver to the Priority Agent copies of each monthly progress report received by the Company from the EPC Contractor under Section 12.5.1 of the EPC Contract and each progress report received by the Company from any Related Facilities Contractor and, with each Priority Construction Requisition, deliver to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent copies of each invoice received by the Company from the EPC Contractor pursuant to the EPC Contract and from each Related Facilities Contractor pursuant to the Related Facilities Construction Contracts since the date of the immediately preceding Requisition (in the case of the first Priority Construction Requisition) or Priority Construction Requisition;           (ii)      concurrently with its delivery thereof to the EPC Contractor or any Related Facilities Contractor, deliver to the Priority Agent, copies of each material notice or other communication delivered by the Company to the EPC Contractor or such Related Facilities Contractor pursuant to the EPC Contract or the relevant Related Facilities Construction Contract;           (iii)      promptly, from time to time, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial conditions of the Company or the Project as the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, the advisers retained by (or on behalf of) or counsel to the Priority Agent or the Administrative Agent may reasonably request; and           (iv)      to the extent that the EPC Contract is amended and restated in a manner so as to permit the EPC Contractor to achieve Substantial Completion without meeting the performance criteria in effect as of August 1, 2002, promptly after its receipt thereof, deliver to the Priority Agent any "Cure Period Plan" and "Outage Plan" (howsoever described) delivered under the EPC Contract as so amended and restated.           . The Company shall maintain insurance against physical loss, public liability, property damage and other insurance, all as set forth on Schedule 6.1(g) to this Agreement.           . Within 30 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, the Company shall submit to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent a certificate certifying that insurance meeting the Insurance Requirements is in full force and effect and that all premiums then due in respect of such insurance have been paid.           . The Company will pay and discharge promptly when due all material Taxes and governmental charges imposed upon it or upon its income or profits or in respect of its property, in each case before the same shall become delinquent or in default and before penalties accrue thereon, unless and to the extent the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves with respect thereto shall, to the extent required by GAAP, have been set aside, and failure to pay or comply with the contested item could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.            The Company shall preserve the security interests granted under the Security Documents and upon request by the Priority Agent undertake all actions which are necessary or appropriate in the reasonable judgment of the Priority Agent to (i) maintain the Security Agent's security interest in the Collateral in full force and effect at all times (including the priority thereof), and (ii) preserve and protect the Collateral and protect and enforce the Company's rights and title and the rights of the Security Agent to the Collateral, including the making or delivery of all filings and recordations, the payments of fees and other charges and the issuance of supplemental documentation.           .           (i) The Company shall cause the Project to be completed in accordance with the Project Budget.           (ii) The Company shall, on the third Business Day of each month commencing in the month following the month in which the Effective Date occurs, deliver to the Priority Agent for its approval (such approval to be given by the Priority Agent acting in consultation with the Independent Engineer) a revised Project Budget updated based on relevant recent information regarding the Project. Upon approval of such revised Project Budget, such Project Budget shall be deemed to be the Project Budget for all purposes under the Operative Documents; that if the Priority Agent fails to approve such Project Budget, the Project Budget in effect at the time the rejected budget was submitted shall continue to be in effect.           .           (i) Each Annual Budget shall be subject to the approval of the Priority Agent (acting in consultation with the Independent Engineer).           (ii) Not less than 10 days prior to the start of each calendar month falling after the calendar month in which the Completion Date occurs, the Company shall submit to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent a revised operating plan and budget which updates and amends the Annual Budget then in effect for the applicable Fiscal Year. The Priority Agent shall have the right to approve any such update or amendments to the Annual Budget in consultation with the Independent Engineer. Any such updates or amendments approved by the Priority Agent shall become part of the Annual Budget for such Fiscal Year.           (iii) The Company will operate and maintain the Project, or cause the Project to be operated and maintained, in accordance with the Annual Budget.           . The Company shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Priority Agent the Independent Forecast delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.1(m) of the Participation Agreement (which provision is hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed by the Required Priority Lenders); that the Independent Forecast must be prepared by the Independent Power Market Consultant or another independent nationally recognized forecasting consultant reasonably acceptable to the Priority Agent.           . The Company agrees that the Priority Agent, Administrative Agent, the Independent Engineer and other consultants engaged by the Administrative Agent may visit the Project at any time and from time to time after reasonable notice (and the reasonable costs and expenses of such Person incurred in connection with such visit shall be paid by Company) so long as such visit does not unreasonably interfere with the construction, operation, maintenance, start-up or testing of the Project.           . The Company shall at all times cause a complete set of the current and (when available) as-built plans and specifications (and all supplements thereto) relating to the Project to be maintained at the Facility Site's corporate office or the EPC Contractor's offices and available for inspection by the Independent Engineer, the Priority Agent or its representative and the Administrative Agent or its representative. The Company shall, not later than three months after "Final Completion" (as defined in the EPC Contract), cause an as-built survey to be prepared and delivered to the Independent Engineer, the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for the Creditors).           . The Company shall give the Independent Engineer, the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent (and their respective designees) reasonable prior notice of, all performance tests under the EPC Contract and shall permit such Persons to witness and verify all such tests.           . The Company shall, or shall cause the Operator to, use, maintain and operate the Project in compliance with generally accepted prudent operating and maintenance practices, the material provisions of all relevant Project Contracts and California ISO requirements.           . The Company shall, in accordance with plans approved by the Priority Agent (acting in consultation with the Independent Engineer), make Required Modifications.           . The Company shall maintain at all times its status as an EWG and its authority to sell at wholesale electric capacity and energy and certain energy-related products at market-based rates (not subject to any rate cap or other market power mitigation measure unless such measure is applied to all participants in the relevant market), and (notwithstanding any provision of any Operative Document) the Company shall not take or omit to take any action which action or omission could reasonably be expected to result in the loss of such status or such authority.           . The Company shall use reasonable efforts to enter into a consent to assignment agreement with Kern River Gas with respect to the Gas Operating Agreement, reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Agent.           . If the Company obtains any right, title or interest in any real property identified on Schedule 6.1(u) to this Agreement it shall (i) assign such right, title or interest to the Owner, (ii) record a supplement to the Deed of Trust and the joinder to Deed of Trust in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Security Agent thereby encumbering such right, title or interest by the lien of the Deed of Trust and the joinder to Deed of Trust, and (iii) obtain a supplement to Lenders' Title Policy insuring the first priority of the Deed of Trust over such real property necessary for the Transmission Line (subject only to encumbrances expressly approved by the Priority Agent) and otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Agent.           (V)      . The Company shall deliver to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent on the third Business Day of each week after the Effective Date: (i) a sources and uses report in form satisfactory to the Priority Agent; (ii) a forecast of the Company's cash receipts and disbursements for the ensuing 13-week period beginning with the subsequent calendar week, together with a comparison of actual results to prior forecasts, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Agent; and (iii) a certification by a Responsible Officer of the Company that no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.           (W)      .           (i) The Company shall use the proceeds of Priority Construction Loans made available to it solely for the purpose of paying Subject Project Costs and in accordance with the Priority Construction Requisition related to such funding.           (ii) The Company shall use the proceeds of Priority Working Capital Loans made available to it solely for the purposes of: (A) paying Operating Costs and Priority Scheduled Debt Service in accordance with the Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice related to such funding and (B) financing Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations.           (iii) The Company shall only request the issuance of Priority Working Capital L/Cs solely for the purpose of providing security to Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company in respect of gas purchase and gas transportation agreements and power sale agreements to which such Persons and the Company or the Owner are party (or to which the Company or the Owner become a party).           . Unless and until all Priority Obligations have been paid in full and the Priority Commitments have been terminated or expired, the Company covenants and agrees that:           . The Company shall not enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation, change its form of organization or its business, liquidate or dissolve itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution), or amend its governing instruments in any material respect. The Company shall not have any Subsidiaries, or purchase or otherwise acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any other Person. In addition, except as provided below or as expressly permitted in the Project Contracts, the Company shall not sell, lease (as lessor) or transfer (as transferor) any property or assets material to the operation of the Project except in the ordinary course of business or to the extent that such property is worn out or is no longer useful or necessary in connection wit h the operation of the Project; provided, however, that the Company shall not, in any event, sell, lease or transfer any of such property or assets without the written approval of the Priority Agent if the aggregate fair market value of all sales, leases and transfers in the current fiscal year exceeds $5 million escalated at the GDPIPD starting January 1, 2000.           . The Company shall not engage in any business other than the development, acquisition, construction, leasing, operation and financing of the Project as contemplated by the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders).           . The Company shall not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon the Project or any other part of the Collateral, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than Permitted Liens.           . The Company shall not create or incur or suffer to exist any Indebtedness except for: (i) Indebtedness incurred under the Operative Documents prior to the Effective Date which claims are structurally subordinated to claims hereunder subject to Section 7.03 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement; (ii) financial obligations arising under the Project Contracts; and (iii) trade accounts payable (other than for borrowed money) arising, and accrued expenses incurred, in the ordinary course of business so long as such trade accounts payable are payable within 90 days of the date the respective goods are delivered or the respective services are rendered.           . The Company shall not, and shall not permit the Operator to, enter into any transaction or agreement with any Affiliate except any Transaction Document as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders), unless such transaction or agreement is approved by the Required Priority Lenders.           . The Company shall not enter into any Fixed Price PGET Power Purchase Agreement or Fixed Price PGET Gas Supply Agreement except with the prior approval of the Required Priority Lenders.           . The Company shall not enter into any Third Party Power Purchase Agreements or Third Party Gas Supply Agreements except with the prior approval of the Required Priority Lenders.           . The Company shall not terminate, amend or modify any Project Contract except with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.           . The Company shall not make any distribution or payment on account of any membership or other equity interest in the Company or any payment on account of any Subordinated Debt.           . The Company shall not take any action (or omit to take any action which it has the authority to take) which action (or omission) could reasonably be expected to result in either:           (i)       the Company's being deemed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction to be or otherwise becoming a "public utility" as defined in, or otherwise subject to regulation under, the California Public Utilities Code; or           (ii)       the Owner or any Creditor being deemed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction to be or otherwise becoming, solely by reason of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, a "public utility", a "public utility company", a "public utility holding company", an "electric utility", or an "electric utility company" (or an affiliate of any thereof) under any applicable law (including PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or the California Public Utilities Code or otherwise subject to any regulation relating to any such type of entity (or affiliates thereof) under any Legal Requirement or Requirement of Law (including PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or the California Public Utilities Code).           .The Company shall not release, emit or discharge into the environment any Hazardous Substances other than in compliance with all Legal Requirements, except where such non-compliance could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.           (l)      . The Company shall not take any action to or otherwise suffer or permit the Conversion Date to occur without the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.           (m)      . The Company shall not make any Optional Modification unless such Modification is approved by the Priority Agent acting with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.           (n)      . The Company shall not enter into any Additional Project Contract unless approved by the Priority Agent acting with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.           . Unless and until all Priority Obligations have been paid in full and all Priority Commitments have been terminated or expired:           . Each of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company will not create, permit, incur, assume or suffer to exist at any time, and will, at its own cost and expense, promptly take such action as may be necessary duly to discharge, or to cause to be discharged, and indemnify and hold harmless the other Creditors and the Company against all losses, costs and damages arising from all Owner Liens attributable to it or any of its Affiliates; provided, however, that no such Person shall be required so to discharge any such Owner Lien while the same is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently prosecuted so long as such proceedings shall not involve any material danger of impairment of the Liens of the Security Documents or of the sale, forfeiture or loss of, and shall not interfere with the use or disposition of, the Project or title thereto or any interest therein or the payment of Rent.           . Without prejudice to any right under the Trust Agreement of the Trust Company to resign, or the Investors' right under the Trust Agreement to remove the Trust Company, each of the Trustee and the Trust Company hereby agrees with the Company and other Creditors (i) not to terminate or revoke the trust created by the Trust Agreement unless the Secured Obligations are paid in full, (ii) not to amend, supplement, terminate or revoke or otherwise modify any provision of the Trust Agreement or any other Operative Document without the prior written consent of any party hereto adversely effected by such amendment and (iii) to comply with all of the terms of the Trust Agreement.           . The Trust Company or any successor may resign or be removed by the Investors as trustee, a successor trustee may be appointed, and a corporation may become the trustee under the Trust Agreement, only in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Trust Agreement and with the consent of the Priority Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.           . The Owner shall not (i) conduct, transact or otherwise engage in, or commit to transact, conduct or otherwise engage in, any business or operations other than the entry into, and exercise of rights and performance of obligations in respect of, the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders) and other activities incidental or related to the foregoing, or (ii) own, lease, manage or otherwise operate any properties or assets other than in connection with the activities described in clause (i), or incur, create, assume or otherwise suffer to exist any Indebtedness or other consensual liabilities or financial obligations other than as may be incurred, created or assumed or as may exist in connection with the activities described in clause (i) (including the Loans, Priority Loans and other obligations incurred by the Owner pursuant to the Transaction Documents).           . Each of the Trustee, the Owner and the Trust Company shall give at least 30 days prior written notice to the Company, the Priority Agent and each other Creditor if its principal place of business or chief executive office, or the office where the records concerning the accounts or contract rights relating to the Project are kept, shall cease to be located in Wilmington, Delaware or if it shall change its name.           . The Owner shall not convey, sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property, business or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except to the extent expressly permitted by the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders).           . The Owner, or the Company on its behalf, shall provide to any Priority Lender at such Priority Lender's request on the Effective Date and on or prior to September 30 of each year copies of (A) a balance sheet of the Trust as of the end of the then most recently ended calendar year of the Owner and (B) a profit and loss statement of the Owner for the one-year period ended as of the end of such calendar year, in each case signed by a Responsible Officer of the Owner if so requested by such Priority Lender.           . The Owner shall at all times observe and perform all of the covenants, conditions and obligations required to be performed by it under each Operative Document to which it is a party. Except as expressly contemplated by the related Consent to Assignment or, following the occurrence of an Event of Default or Post-Effective Event of Default, in connection with the enforcement of remedies under the Operative Documents, the Owner shall not take any action under any Project Contract.           . Each of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company shall not (i) commence any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to the Owner or its debts, or (ii) seek appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for the Owner or for all or any substantial benefit of the Owner's creditors, in each case without the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders; and each of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company shall not take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set forth in this paragraph w ithout the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.           (j)      .           (i) The Owner shall use the proceeds of Priority Construction Loans made available to it solely for the purpose of paying Subject Project Costs and in accordance with the Priority Construction Requisition related to such funding.           (ii) The Owner shall use the proceeds of Priority Working Capital Loans made available to it solely for the purposes of: (A) paying Operating Costs and Priority Scheduled Debt Service in accordance with the Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice related to such funding and (B) financing Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations.           (iii) The Owner shall only request the issuance of Priority Working Capital L/Cs solely for the purpose of providing security to Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company in respect of gas purchase and gas transportation agreements and power sale agreements to which such Persons and the Owner are party (or to which the Owner becomes a party).                          SECTION 7.                 . Each of the following events shall constitute a "":           (a)      . The Company or the Owner shall fail to make payment of (i) of any interest, fees or other amounts (other than principal) payable in respect of Priority Loans or otherwise payable under this Agreement within five Business Days after the sum has become due and payable, or (ii) any principal in respect of Priority Loans or any Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations on the due date therefor; or           (b)      . The Company shall fail to maintain insurance that complies with the Insurance Requirements; or           (c)      . The Company shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition set forth in the following Sections of this Agreement: Section 6.1(a) (Maintenance of Existence and Governmental Action), Section 6.1(c) (Financial Statements), Section 6.1(e)(i)(A) (Notices), Section 6.1(g) (Maintenance of Insurance), Section 6.1(h) (Insurance Certificate), Section 6.1(p) (EPC Contract Performance Tests) or Section 6.1(w) (Use of Proceeds) or any provision of Section 6.2 (Negative Covenants of the Company) (but, solely with respect to Section 6.2(c), in the event such failure results from the imposition of Mechanic's Liens, such failure shall remain uncured for a period of 30 days after receipt of notice of such failure by the Company from the Priority Agent); or           (d)      . The Company shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition set forth in the following Sections of this Agreement: Section 6.1(d) (Compliance with Laws), Section 6.1(f) (EPC Contract Matters; Other Information), Section 6.1(j) (Preservation of Security Interests), Section 6.1(r) (Required Modifications to Facilities), Section 6.1(u) (After Acquired Property) or Section 6.1(v) (Weekly Reporting) and the Priority Agent shall notify the Company of such failure; or           (e)      . The Company or the Owner shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition of this Agreement or any other Operative Document to which it is a party (other than those specified in or encompassed by clauses (a) through (d) above and those relating to the subject matter covered by clauses (g), (h), (i) and (n) below) and such failure shall remain uncured for a period of 30 days after receipt of notice of such failure by the Company or the Owner, as the case may be, from the Priority Agent; or           (f)      . Any representation or warranty by the Company or the Owner set forth in this Agreement or in the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement or in any document entered into in connection herewith or therewith or in any certificate, financial statement or other document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made (or deemed made); or           (g)      . Save as provided in clauses (h) and (i) of this Section 7.1, any Project Contract shall terminate or otherwise cease for any reason to be in full force and effect prior to its stated termination date; or any Material Project Participant shall default in the performance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in any such Project Contract (and such default shall not be cured within the grace period, if any, provided therefor in such Project Contract) and such default has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; or           (h)      .           (i) Unless the Company and PGET have entered into an Approved Replacement Contract, the PGET Power Purchase Agreement or the PGET Gas Supply Agreement shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect prior to its stated termination; or           (ii) Unless the Company and PGET have entered into an Approved Replacement Contract, PGET shall default in the performance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in the PGET Power Purchase Agreement or the PGET Gas Supply Agreement or any "Event of Default" (howsoever described) shall arise thereunder (and such default shall not be cured within the grace period, if any, provided therefor in such Material Project Contract); or           (iii) The Company shall have failed, prior to the Completion Date, to enter into a replacement contract with PGET or a third party energy manager acceptable to the Required Priority Lenders in form and substance satisfactory to the Required Priority Lenders whereby PGET or such third party energy manager and the Company agree that PGET or such third party energy manager will act as agent for the Company in connection with: (A) the marketing of the Company's electrical capacity, output and ancillary services and (B) the procurement of gas for use in the Project (such replacement contract, an ""); or           (i)      . NEG shall repudiate any of its obligations under the Project Contract Limited Guaranty; or NEG shall disavow or otherwise contest its liability thereunder; or           (j)      . A Change of Control shall occur; or           (k)      . (i) The Company or the Owner shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (ii) any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Company or the Owner seeking to adjudicate it bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismis sed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or (iii) the Company or the Owner shall take any partnership or other action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this clause (k); or           (l)      . One or more final, non-appealable judgments for the payment of money (if such payments are not covered by insurance in effect pursuant to the Insurance Requirements) in excess of $5,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Company or the Owner and such party shall not discharge the same or provide for its discharge in accordance with its terms, or procure a stay of execution thereof, within 60 days after the day of entry thereof; provided, however, that any such judgment or order shall not be (and shall not constitute part of) a Post-Effective Event of Default under this clause (l) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or orde r; or           (m)      . (i) The Company shall engage in any "prohibited transaction" (as defined in section 406 of ERISA or section 4975 of the Code) involving any Plan, or (ii) any "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived, shall exist with respect to any Plan of the Company, or (iii) a Reportable Event shall occur with respect to, or proceedings shall commence to have a trustee appointed, or a trustee shall be appointed, to administer or to terminate any Single Employer Plan of the Company, which Reportable Event or institution of proceedings is, in the reasonable opinion of the Owner, likely to result in the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, or (iv) any Single Employer Plan of the Company shall terminate for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, and in each case such event or condition, together with all other such events or conditions, if any, could have a Material Adverse Effect; or           (n)      . The grant of the Lien of any of the Security Documents shall fail in any material respect to provide a perfected Lien in favor of the Security Agent for the benefit of the Creditors or any of the Collateral with the priority purported to be created thereby; or          (o)      S. The Company shall repudiate any of its obligations under the Structural Guaranty; or the Company shall disavow or otherwise contest its liability thereunder; or           (p)       [Intentionally Omitted]           (q)      . Prior to the commencement of the Term of the Lease, a Significant Condemnation or a Casualty shall occur; or           (r)      . A Regulatory Event of Loss shall have occurred and be continuing; or           (s)      . The Completion Date shall not have occurred by April 11, 2003; or           (t)      . All of the Company's and the Owner's right, title and interest in, to and under the Project shall not have been transferred to the Creditors by the date which is 180 days after the Effective Date unless extended by the Required Priority Lenders; or           (u)      . NEG shall repudiate any of its obligations under the NEG Guarantee; or NEG shall disavow or otherwise contest its liability thereunder.            Upon the occurrence of a Post-Effective Event of Default specified in Section 7.1(k)(ii) of this Agreement with respect to either the Company or the Owner, the Priority Commitments shall automatically and immediately terminate and the Priority Loans (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing hereunder shall immediately become due and payable; that, notwithstanding anything in the Operative Documents to the contrary, the Required Priority Lenders may by written direction (a "") to the Priority Agent (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, the Trust Company and the Trustee) direct that such acceleration and termination be rescinded and, upon such rescission, the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be restored as in effect immediately prior to such acceleration and termination (although, for the avoidanc e of doubt, unless such Rescission Direction specifically waives the occurrence of such Post-Effective Event of Default, such Post-Effective Event of Default shall be and remain outstanding notwithstanding such rescission). Upon the occurrence of any other Post-Effective Event of Default (or to the extent that the acceleration and termination contemplated by the previous sentence is rescinded, but the related Post-Effective Event of Default is not waived), either or both of the following actions may be taken: (i) with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent may, or upon the request of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent shall, by notice to the Owner and the Company, declare the Priority Commitments to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Priority Commitments shall immediately terminate; and (ii) with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent may, or upon the request of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent shall, by n otice to the Owner and the Company, declare the Priority Loans hereunder (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing hereunder and under the other Operative Documents to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same shall immediately become due and payable. Except as expressly provided herein, presentment, demand, protest and all other notices of any kind are hereby expressly waived. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Post-Effective Event of Default, the Security Agent and the other Creditors may exercise any and all rights and remedies in accordance with and subject to the provisions under the Security Documents, the Construction Agency Agreement, the Lease, the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement and any other applicable Operative Document, as well as all their rights and remedies under applicable law.                      . For all periods prior to the date (the "") on which a case by or against the Company is instituted under the Bankruptcy Code, the Company, the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company and the Administrative Agent hereby agree that:          (a)      as between the Company and the Owner, the Company shall have the exclusive right to give all of the notices to be given by the Company or the Owner to the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder and to deliver the Priority Construction Requisitions and Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notices pursuant to this Agreement; and           (b)      the Company shall have the exclusive right to consent to amendments of this Agreement in accordance with Section 10.1 of this Agreement.           . For all periods on and after the Petition Date, if the Required Priority Lenders deliver (x) a Rescission Direction as specified in Section 7.2 of this Agreement with respect to the Post-Effective Event of Default relating to the Company under Section 7.1(k)(ii) of this Agreement and (y) a notice to the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company and the Administrative Agent directing that this Section 8.2 be effective, the Parties hereto hereby agree that:           (a)      as between the Company and the Owner, the Owner (acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders) shall have the exclusive right to give all of the notices to be given by the Company or the Owner to the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder and to deliver the Priority Construction Requisitions and Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notices pursuant to this Agreement;           (b)      all references to the Company in the following Sections of this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to Owner for all purposes hereunder: Section 6.1(d) (Compliance with Laws), Section 6.1(e)(i) (Notices) (but only with respect to the Company's obligations under clause (A) thereof), Section 6.1(f) (EPC Contract Matters; Other Information), Section 6.1(g) (Maintenance of Insurance), Section 6.1(j) (Preservation of Security Interests), Section 6.1(k)(i) (Project Budget), Section 6.1(l)(i) (Annual Budget), Section 6.1(m) (Market Forecasts), Section 6.1(o) (Plans and Specifications; As-built Survey), Section 6.1(p) (EPC Contract Performance Tests), Section 6.1(q) (Operation and Maintenance), Section 6.1(u) (After Acquired Property), Section 6.2(e) (Limitation on Transactions with Affiliates), Section 6.2(f) (Limitation on Changes to PGET Power Purchase and Gas Supply Agreements), Section 6.2(g) (Limitation on Thir d Party Power Purchase and Gas Supply Agreements), Section 6.2(h) (Limitation on Amendments to Project Contracts), Section 6.2(i) (Limitation on Distributions and Payments of Subordinated Debt), Section 6.2(k) (Hazardous Substances), Section 7.1(b) (Insurance), Section 7.1(c) (No Grace Covenants), Section 7.1(d) (Notice Covenants), Section 7.1(e) (Other Covenants) and Section 7.1(h) (PGET Power Purchase or Gas Supply Agreements);           (c)      the Owner shall have the exclusive right to approve counsel, advisors and professionals as provided in the definition of "Subject Project Costs"; and           (d)      the Owner shall have the exclusive right to consent to amendments of this Agreement in accordance with Section 10.1 of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents and all references to the Company in such Section 10.1 shall be deemed to be references to the Owner.                          SECTION           . Each Priority Lender hereby irrevocably designates and appoints Citibank as the Priority Agent under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents, and each Priority Lender irrevocably authorizes Citibank, in the capacity of Priority Agent, to (i) execute, deliver and perform the obligations, if any, of the Priority Agent under the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement and (ii) take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the Priority Agent by the terms of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement, the Priority Agent shall not have any duties or responsi bilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Priority Lender, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Agreement or any other Operative Document or otherwise exist against the Priority Agent.          9.2      . The Priority Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel of its choice concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Priority Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.           . Neither the Priority Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates shall be (a) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Operative Document (except to the extent that any of the foregoing are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct) or (b) responsible in any manner to any Priority Lender for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by either Debtor or any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or any other Operative Document or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Priority Age nt under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Operative Document or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Operative Document or for any failure of either Debtor or any other party thereto to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. The Priority Agent shall not be under any obligation to any Priority Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Operative Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of the Debtors or any other Person.           . The Priority Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any instrument, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including counsel to the Company or the Owner), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Priority Agent. The Priority Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Priority Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Priority Agent. The Priority Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any other Operative Document unless it shall first receive such legal advice or the concurrence of the Required Priority Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Priority Lenders) as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Priority Lenders against any and all liability and expense that may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Priority Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents in accordance with a written request of the Required Priority Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Priority Lenders) and such written request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Priority Lenders.           . The Priority Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default unless the Priority Agent has received written notice from a Priority Lender, the Company or the Owner referring to this Agreement and the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement, describing such Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that the Priority Agent receives such a written notice, the Priority Agent shall give notice thereof to the Priority Lenders and the Administrative Agent. The Priority Agent shall take such action with respect to such Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Priority Lenders); that unless and until the Priority Agent shall have received such written directions, the Priority Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Priority Lenders.           . Each Priority Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Priority Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates have made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the Priority Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Debtors or any of their respective affiliates, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Priority Agent to any Priority Lender. Each Priority Lender represents to the Priority Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Priority Agent or any other Priority Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and cre ditworthiness of the Debtors and their respective affiliates and made its own decision to extend credit to or otherwise invest funds in the Debtors or the Project and to enter into the Operative Documents to which it is a party. Each Priority Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Priority Agent or any other Priority Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analyses, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Debtors and their respective affiliates. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Priority Lenders by the Priority Agent hereunder, the Priority Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Priority Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of the Debtors or their respective affiliates that may come into the possession of the Priority Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates.           . The Priority Lenders agree to indemnify the Priority Agent in its capacity as such and its officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents (to the extent not reimbursed by the Company and without limiting the obligation of the Company to do so), ratably according to their respective Priority Commitment Percentages in effect on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Section, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and agents' fees and expenses) or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time (whether before or after the payment of the Secured Obligations) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Priority Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, the Priority Commitm ents, this Agreement, any of the other Transaction Documents or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Priority Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; that no Creditor shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements that are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the Priority Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Secured Obligations and all other amounts payable hereunder.           . With respect to Priority Commitments and Priority Loans made or renewed by it or any of its Affiliates and with respect to any Priority Working Capital L/C issued or participated in by it, Citibank and its Affiliates shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents as any Priority Lender and may exercise the same as though Citibank were not the Priority Agent, and the terms "Creditor", "Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer", "Priority Lender", "Lender", "Interest Hedge Party", and "Participant" shall (to the extent applicable) include Citibank in its individual capacity.           . Citibank may resign as Priority Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Priority Lenders and the Debtors. If Citibank should resign as Priority Agent, the Required Priority Lenders shall appoint from among the Priority Lenders a successor Priority Agent, whereupon such successor agent shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the Priority Agent, and the term "Priority Agent" shall mean such successor agent effective upon such appointment and approval, and Citibank's rights, powers and duties as Priority Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of Citibank or any of the parties to this Agreement or any holders of the Secured Obligations. If no successor agent has accepted appointment as Priority Agent by the date that is 30 days following Citibank's notice of resignation, Citibank's resignatio n shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Priority Lenders shall assume and perform all of the duties of the Priority Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Priority Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above. After any Person's resignation as Priority Agent, the provisions of this Section shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Priority Agent under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents.           . The Priority Agent shall deliver to each Priority Lender and the Administrative Agent a copy of each Project Budget, Annual Budget, market forecast, financial statement, default certificate and other report required to be delivered by the Company to it under the Operative Documents.                      . Neither this Agreement nor any terms hereof may be amended, supplemented or modified except in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.1. The Required Priority Lenders may, or, with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent may, from time to time, (a) subject to receipt of the written consent of the Company, enter into with the Company, written amendments, supplements or modifications to this Agreement for the purpose of adding any provisions to this Agreement or changing in any manner the rights of the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or the Company hereunder or (b) waive, on such terms and conditions as the Required Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent may specify in such instrument, any of the requirements of this Agreement. In addition, the Priority Agent may from tim e to time consent in writing to amendments, supplements, modifications or waivers with respect to this Agreement, subject to receipt of the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment, supplement, modification or waiver shall (i) reduce the amount or extend the scheduled date of maturity of any Priority Loan or Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation, or reduce the stated rate of any interest payable hereunder or any Commitment Fees payable pursuant to Section 2.6 of this Agreement or extend the scheduled date of any payment of such interest or Priority Commitment Fees or increase the amount or extend the expiration date of any Priority Lender's Priority Commitment, in each case without the consent of each Priority Lender hereunder directly affected thereby, or (ii) amend, modify or waive any provision of this Section 10.1 or reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Required Priority Lenders or consent to the assignme nt or transfer by the Company or the Owner of any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement in each case without the written consent of all of the Priority Lenders hereunder. Any such waiver and any such amendment, supplement or modification shall apply equally to each of the Priority Lenders hereunder and shall be binding upon the Owner, the Company, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Priority Agent and all future holders of the Priority Loans or Priority Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations. In the case of any waiver, the Owner, the Company, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer and the Priority Agent shall be restored to their former position and rights under this Agreement, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other circumstance, or impair any right consequent thereon.           . Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices, consents, directions, approvals, instructions, requests and other communications required or permitted by the terms hereof to be given to any Person shall be given in accordance with Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement.           . No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender hereunder, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.           . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, the Owner, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, all future holders of the Priority Loans and their respective successors and permitted assigns, except that neither the Company nor the Owner may assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each Priority Lender hereunder.           . Any Priority Lender hereunder may with the consent of the Priority Agent, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks, financial institutions or other entities (each, a "") participating interests in any Priority Loan owing to such Priority Lender, any Priority Working Capital L/C Interest held by it, any Priority Commitment of such Priority Lender or any other interest of such Priority Lender hereunder and under the other Operative Documents. In the event of any such sale by a Priority Lender hereunder of a participating interest to a Participant, such Priority Lender's obligations under this Agreement to the other parties to this Agreement shall remain unchanged, such Priority Lender shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof, such Priority Lender shall remain the holder of any such Priority Loan, Priority Working Capital L/C Interest or Priority Commitment for all purposes under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the Owner, the Company, the Priority Agent, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Priority Lender in connection with such Priority Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents. In no event shall any Participant have any right (i) to enforce any obligation of the Company or the Owner as against the Company or the Owner unless such Participant shall be a third party beneficiary of such obligation or (ii) to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Operative Document, or any consent to any departure by the Company, the Owner or any other Person therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, any Priority Loa n, or postpone the date of the final maturity of any Priority Loan, or reduce the amount of any Priority Commitment Fee payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation. The Company and the Owner also agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.12 and 2.13 of this Agreement with respect to its participation in the Priority Commitments and the Priority Loans outstanding from time to time as if it were a Priority Lender hereunder; that, in the case of Section 2.13 of this Agreement, such Participant shall have complied with the requirements of said Section; and , , that no Participant shall be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to any such Section than the transferor Priority Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of the participation transferred by such transferor Priority Lender to such Participant had no such transfer occurred. No Participant may sell the in terest it acquires in any Priority Loans, Priority Working Capital L/C Interests or Priority Commitments under this Section 10.5 or any portion thereof (including by way of a sale of a participation in such interest) to any Person other than a Priority Lender.           . Any Priority Lender hereunder may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time and from time to time assign (i) to any Priority Lender hereunder, (ii) to any Affiliate of any Priority Lender hereunder, (iii) to any Lender or (iv) with the consent of the Priority Agent and Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer, to an additional bank, financial institution or other entity (each, a ""), all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto (an ""), executed by such Purchasing Lender, such assigning Priority Lender (and, in the case of a Purchasing Lender that is not (x) a Lender, (y) a Priority Lender hereunder or (z) an Affiliate of either th ereof, by the Priority Agent acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders) and delivered to the Priority Agent for its acceptance and recording in the Priority Register; that, except in the case of an assignment of all of a Priority Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (A) the amount of the Priority Loans, rights to receive payment on Priority Working Capital L/C Interests and/or Priority Commitment of the assigning Priority Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (1) to any Person described in clauses (a)(i), (ii) or (iii) above shall equal at least $1,000,000 and (2) to any Person described in clause (a)(iv) above shall equal at least $5,000,000 and (B) after giving effect to each such assignment, the assigning Priority Lender (together with any Priority Lender which is an affiliate of such assigning Lender) shall retain Priority Loans, rights to receive payment on Priority Working Capital L/C Interests and/or Priority Commitments, respectively, a ggregating not less than $1,000,000.           Each assignment by a Priority Lender shall be made ratably across each Class of its Priority Commitments and Priority Loans (such that the same percentage of the aggregate amount of each Class of Priority Commitments and Priority Loans (and Priority Working Capital L/C Interests as applicable) held by the assigning Priority Lender is assigned to the Purchasing Lender). Each assignment by a Priority Lender of (1) its Priority Commitment shall be made contemporaneously with an assignment of its Priority Loans and Priority Working Capital L/C Interest, as relevant, and (2) its Priority Loans or Priority Working Capital L/C Interest, as relevant, shall be made contemporaneously with an assignment of its Priority Commitment and, in either case, shall be made in such a manner so that the same portion of its Priority Commitment, Priority Loans and Priority Working Capital L/C Interest, as relevant, is assigned to the respective Purchasing Lender. Each assi gnment by a Priority Lender of its Priority Commitment or Priority Loans of a particular Class shall be made in such a manner so that the same portion of its Priority Commitment and Priority Loans of such Class is assigned to the respective Purchasing Lender.           Upon the execution, delivery, acceptance and recording of an Assignment and Acceptance, from and after the effective date determined pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the Purchasing Lender thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Priority Lender hereunder with Priority Loans, Priority Working Capital L/C Interests and/or Priority Commitments as set forth therein, and (y) the assigning Priority Lender thereunder shall, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of an assigning Priority Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such assigning Lender shall cease to be a party hereto). In addition, if such Purchasing Lender is a Non-U.S. Lender, such Purchasing Lender shall also deliver the documents requi red under Section 2.13(b) of this Agreement. Such Assignment and Acceptance shall be deemed to (I) amend this Agreement to the extent, and only to the extent, necessary to reflect the addition of such Purchasing Lender and the resulting adjustment of Priority Commitment Percentage arising from the purchase by such Purchasing Lender of all or a portion of the rights and obligations of such assigning Priority Lender and (II) amend the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement for purposes of decreasing the amount of Roll-Up Loans held by the assigning Priority Lender and establishing or increasing the Roll-Up Loans to be held by the Purchasing Lender. The assignment by a Priority Lender of its Priority Commitment and/or Priority Loans shall reduce the Roll-Up Loans held by such Priority Lender by a principal amount equal to (i) the product of three times the amount of Priority Construction Loans assigned (ii) the product of three times the amount of Priority Working Capital Loan Commitment so assigned (iii) an aggregate amount equal to the interest capitalized on Roll-Up Loans having a principal amount equal to the sum of (i) and (ii) above from the Effective Date to the "Assignment Effective Date" referenced in the related Assignment and Acceptance. The Purchasing Lender shall be entitled to designate from its Residual Loans a principal amount equivalent to the sum of (i) and (ii) above to the treated as Roll-Up Loans. Capitalized interest from the Effective Date on such Residual Loans will be promoted to become Roll-Up Loans; that such amount shall be no greater than the amount determined pursuant to clause (iii) above. The effective date of an assignment may only occur on an Interest Date.           (b)      Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Priority Lender and a Purchasing Lender (and, in the case of a Purchasing Lender that is not a Priority Lender hereunder, an Affiliate thereof or a Lender, by the Priority Agent) together with payment to the Priority Agent of a registration and processing fee of $2,500, the Priority Agent shall (i) promptly accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) on the effective date determined pursuant thereto, record the information contained therein in the Priority Register and give notice of such acceptance and recordation to the Priority Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Company and the Owner. Any assignment of any Priority Loan whether or not evidenced by a Priority Note shall be effective only upon appropriate entries with respect thereto being made in the Priority Register (and each Priority Note shall expressly so provide). Any assignment or transfer of all or part of a Priority Loan evidenced by a Priority Note shall be registered on the Priority Register only upon surrender for registration of assignment or transfer of the Priority Note evidencing such Priority Loan, accompanied by a duly executed Assignment and Acceptance, and thereupon one or more new Priority Notes if requested in the same aggregate principal amount shall be issued to the designated Purchasing Lender (and if the assigning Priority Lender has retained Priority Loans, new Priority Notes if requested to the assigning Priority Lender equal to the amount of Priority Loans retained by it hereunder), and the old Priority Notes shall be returned by the Priority Agent to the Company marked "cancelled". On or prior to the effective date of any Assignment and Acceptance, the Company, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Priority Agent new Priority Notes if requested, and such new Priority Notes shall be dated such effective date and shall otherwise be in the form o f the Priority Notes replaced thereby. The Priority Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it.           (c)      Nothing herein shall prohibit any Priority Lender hereunder from pledging or assigning any Priority Loan or Priority Note to any Federal Reserve Bank as collateral security in accordance with applicable law.           . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.           . If any one or more of the covenants or agreements provided in this Agreement on the part of the parties hereto to be performed should be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, such covenant or agreement shall be deemed and construed to be severable from the remaining covenants and agreements herein contained and shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.           . THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY PRIORITY NOTES AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.           .           (a) Anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in any other Operative Document notwithstanding, no officer, director or shareholder of the Owner (all such Persons being hereinafter referred to collectively as the ""), shall be personally liable in any respect for any liability or obligation hereunder or under any other Operative Document including the payment of the principal of, or interest on, the Priority Notes, or for monetary damages for the breach of performance of any of the covenants contained in this Agreement, the Priority Notes or any of the other Operative Documents. The Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent and the Priority Lenders agree that, in the event any of them pursues any remedies available to them under this Agreement, the Priority Notes or any other Operative Document, none of the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent nor the Priority Lenders shall have any recourse against the Ow ner, nor any other Exculpated Person, for any deficiency, loss or claim for monetary damages or otherwise resulting therefrom and recourse shall be had solely and exclusively against the Collateral; but nothing contained herein shall be taken to prevent recourse against or the enforcement of remedies against the Project in respect of any and all liabilities, obligations and undertakings contained in this Agreement, the Priority Notes or any other Operative Document. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.10(a), nothing in this Agreement or any other Operative Document shall (i) constitute a waiver, release or discharge of any obligation evidenced or secured by this Agreement or any other Operative Document, (ii) limit the right of the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder to name the Company or the Owner as a party defendant in any action or suit for judicial foreclosure and sale under any Security Document, or (iii) affect in any way the validity or enforceability of the Structural Guaranty or any other guaranty (whether of payment and/or performance) given to the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent, the Security Agent or the Priority Lenders, or of any indemnity agreement given by the Company, in connection with the Priority Loans made hereunder.           (b) Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that the Trust Company is (except as otherwise expressly provided herein or therein) entering into this Agreement and the other Operative Documents to which it is a party (other than the Trust Agreement), solely in its capacity as trustee under the Trust Agreement and not in its individual capacity, and that Trust Company shall not be liable or accountable under any circumstances whatsoever in its individual capacity for or on account of any statements, representations, warranties, covenants or obligations stated to be those of the Trustee, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct and as otherwise expressly provided herein or in the other Operative Documents. Except as specifically provided in the Trust Agreement and except to the extent that the Trust Company shall have acted in its individual capacity, all Persons having any claim against the Owner or the Trust Company acting in its capacity as Trustee by reason of the transactions contemplated hereby shall look only to the Trust Estate for payment or satisfaction thereof (and, without limiting the foregoing, no Investor shall have any liability for payment or satisfaction of claims against the Owner or the Trustee except to the extent any such claim arises out of or results from the breach by such Investor of its obligations hereunder or under any other Operative Document).            The Table of Contents and headings of the various Sections and subsections of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not modify, define, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.            In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any other Operative Document, the terms of this Agreement shall control.            It is the express intent of the Operative Documents that the Owner is to be a passive investment vehicle established for the purpose of facilitating the lease financing described in the Operative Documents. In consideration thereof, the Company hereby expressly agrees that all of the obligations of the Owner hereunder shall constitute "Guaranteed Obligations" as such term is defined in the Structural Guaranty the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, waiver, modification or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders ( that notwithstanding the incorporation of such terms, no demand need be made by any Person on the Company under the Structural Guaranty in order for amounts to be due and payable by the Company thereunder in respect of Guaranteed Obligations consisting of the obligations of the Owner hereunder).           . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Company and the Owner herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Priority Loans and issuance of any Priority Working Capital L/C, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Priority Agent, the Priority Working Capital L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Post-Effective Default, Post-Effective Event of Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued int erest on any Priority Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Priority Working Capital L/C is outstanding and so long as the Priority Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.11, 2.13 and Section 9 of this Agreement shall survive and remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.           
provided
2.11     
Requirements of Law
provided
2.12     
Indemnity
2.13
Taxes
Non-Excluded Taxes
provided
however
provided
Non-U.S. Lender
2.14     
Change of Lending Office
2.15     
Reduction and Termination of Commitments.
2.16     
Priority Agent Fee
SECTION 3.      PRIORITY WORKING CAPITAL L/CS
3.1     
Priority Working Capital L/C Commitment
Priority Working Capital L/C
provided
3.2     
Procedure for Issuance, Amendment, Renewal or Extension of Priority Working Capital L/Cs
3.3     
Fees and Other Charges
3.4     
L/C Participations
provided
howeve
3.5     
Reimbursement by the Company
3.6     
Obligations Absolute
3.7     
Priority Working Capital L/C Payments
provided
3.8     
Cash Collateralization
provided
SECTION 4.      CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
4.1     
Conditions to Effectiveness
4.2     
Conditions to Each Priority Construction Loan
Priority Construction Requisition
4.3     
Conditions to Each Priority Working Capital Loan
Priority Working Capital Borrowing Notice
Priority Working Capital Borrowing Date
SECTION 5.      REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
5.1     
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a)      
Organization; Powers
(b)      
Authorization and No Legal Bar
(c)
Enforceability
(d)      
Consents
(e)      
Financial Statements
(f)      
Business
(g)      
Litigation
(h)      
Compliance with Law
(i)      
No Post-Effective Default
(j)      
Federal Reserve Regulations
(k)      
Investment Company Act
(l)      
Utility Regulation
(m)      
Taxes
(n)      
Collateral
(o)      
Intellectual Property
(p)      
ERISA and Employees
(q)      
Governmental Actions
ance of the Project.          (r)      
Utility Services
Use of Proceeds
5.2     
Representations and Warranties of the Owner
      (a)      
Organization; Powers
(b)      
Authorization
No Conflict
(c)      
Enforceability
(d)      
Litigation
(e)      
No Assignment
(f)      
Use of Proceeds
(g)      
Principal Place of Business
5.3     
Representations and Warranties of the Trust Company
(a)      
Due Organization, etc
(b)      
Authorization; No Conflict
(c)      
Trust Company Enforceability, etc
(d)      
Litigation
(e)      
Holding Company Act and Federal Power Act
6.      COVENANTS
6.1     
Affirmative Covenants of the Company
          (a)      
Maintenance of Existence and Governmental Action
(b)      
Inspection of Books and Records
(c)      
Financial Statements
mutatis mutandis
(d)      
Compliance with Laws
(e)      
Notices
mutatis mutandis
(f)      . The Company shall:
EPC Contract Matters; Other Information
(g)      
Maintenance of Insurance
(h)      
Insurance Certificate
(i)      
Taxes
(j)      
Preservation of Security Interests
.
(k)      
Project Budget
provided
(l)      
Annual Budget
(m)      
Market Forecasts
mutatis mutandis
provided
(n)      
Inspection of Project
(o)      
Plans and Specifications; As-built Survey
(p)      
EPC Contract Performance Tests
(q)      
Operation and Maintenance
(r)      
Required Modifications to Facilities
(s)      
EWG Status; Market-Based Rate Authority
(t)      
Operating Agreements
(u)      
After Acquired Property
Weekly Reporting
Use of Proceeds
6.2     
Negative Covenants of the Company
(a)      
Limitation on Fundamental Changes, Subsidiaries and Disposition of Assets
(b)      
Limitation on Nature of Business
(c)      
Limitation on Liens
(d)      
Limitation on Indebtedness
(e)      
Limitation on Transactions with Affiliates
(f)      
Limitation on Changes to PGET Power Purchase and Gas Supply Agreements
(g)      
Limitation on Third Party Power Purchase and Gas Supply Arrangements
(h)      
Limitation on Amendments to Project Contracts
(i)      
Limitation on Distributions and Payments on Subordinated Debt
(j)      
Limitation on Actions Resulting in Regulation of Parties
(k)      
Hazardous Substances
Conversion Date
Optional Modifications
Additional Project Contracts
6.3     
Covenants of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company
(a)      
Discharge of Liens
(b)      
Trust Agreement
(c)      
Successor Trust Company
(d)      
Other Business; Indebtedness
(e)      
Change of Principal Place of Business
(f)      
Disposition of Assets
(g)      
Financial Statements
(h)      
Compliance with Operative Documents; Actions Under Project Contracts
(i)      
No Voluntary Bankruptcy
Use of Proceeds
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
7.1     
Events of Default
Post-Effective Event of Default
Payments
Insurance
No Grace Covenants
Notice Covenants
Other Covenants
Representations, etc
Project Contracts
PGET Power Purchase or Gas Supply Agreements
Approved Replacement Contract
Project Contract Limited Guaranty
Change of Control
Bankruptcy, Insolvency, Dissolution, etc
Judgments
ERISA Violation
Security Interests
tructural Guaranty
Significant Condemnation or Casualty
Regulatory Event of Loss
Completion
Transfer
NEG Guarantee
7.2     .
Remedies
provided
Rescission Direction
SECTION 8.      THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER
8.1     
Company's Owner Loan Agreement Rights
Petition Date
8.2     
Owner's Loan Agreement Rights
9.      THE PRIORITY AGENT
9.1     
Appointment
Delegation of Duties
9.3     
Exculpatory Provisions
9.4     
Reliance by Priority Agent
9.5     
Notice of Default
provided
9.6     
Non-Reliance on Priority Agent and Other Creditors
9.7     
Indemnification
provided
9.8     
Priority Agent in Its Individual Capacity
9.9     
Successor Priority Agent
9.10     
Reports, Etc
SECTION 10.      MISCELLANEOUS
10.1     
Amendments and Waivers
10.2     
Notices
10.3     
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
10. 4     
Successors and Assigns; Participations and Assignments
10.5     
Participations
Participant
provided
provided
further
10.6     
Assignments
Purchasing Lender
Assignment and Acceptance
provided
plus
plus
provided
10.7     
Counterparts
10.8     
Severability
10.9     
GOVERNING LAW
10.10     
Nonrecourse
Exculpated Persons
10.11     
Headings, etc
.
10.12     
Conflicts, etc
.
10.13     
Structural Guaranty
.
mutatis mutandis
provided
10.14     
Survival
The parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
          
 
Additional signature pages omitted

                                     EXHIBIT 99.4                                     EXECUTION COPY                          SECOND OMNIBUS RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT                                          Among                            LAKE ROAD GENERATING COMPANY, L.P.,                                   LAKE ROAD TRUST LTD.,                                 WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY,                        in its individual capacity and as trustee,                                       THE LENDERS,                               THE INTEREST HEDGE PARTIES,                                      CITIBANK, N.A.,                                 as Administrative Agent,                                      CITIBANK, N.A.,                                     as Security Agent,                                      CITIBANK, N.A.,                              as Working Capital L/C Issuer,                                      SOCIETE GENERALE,                                   as DSR/RCE L/C Issuer,                                    THE PRIORITY LENDERS,                                       CITIBANK, N.A.,                                     as Priority Agent,                                            and                              PG&E NATIONAL ENERGY GROUP, INC.                                ____________________________                                Dated as of December 4, 2002                                ____________________________                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                               Page Section 1. Definitions                                          2 Section 2. Participation Agreement                              6 Section 3. Tranche A Loan Agreement                            12 Section 4. Tranche B Loan Agreement                            13 Section 5. Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement          14 Section 6. Security Deposit Agreement                          16 Section 7. Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement       26 Section 8. Mandatory Prepayments                               27 Section 9. Optional Prepayments                                28 Section 10. Roll-Up Loans                                      28 Section 11. Certain Agreements of the Creditors and Parties    29        11.01  Subordination of Liens Securing               Primed Obligations to Liens Securing               Priority Obligations and Certain Related               Bankruptcy Provisions                            29        11.02  Subordination of Liens Securing Residual               Obligations to Liens Securing Roll-Up               Obligations and Certain Related               Bankruptcy Provisions                            36        11.03  Amendments to Operative Documents                43        11.04  Enforcement; Forbearance; Reservation               of Rights                                        43        11.05  Priority Credit Agreement; Authorization         44        11.06  DIP Facility                                     45        11.07  Further Assurances with respect               to  Recharacterization                           45        11.08  No Bankruptcy Proceedings, Etc                   46        11.09  Further Agreements of NEG                        46        11.10  Further Acknowledgment by the Company            46        11.11  Accession                                        47        11.12  Action by Priority Lenders                       47        11.13  Structural Guaranty                              48        11.14  NEG Guarantee                                    49        11.15  Reservation of Lease Rights by Owner             49        11.16  Working Capital L/C                              50 Section 12.  Interest on Settlement Amounts; Roll-Up Loans;              Residual Loans                                    50 Section 13.  Certain Agreements and Confirmations Regarding              Termination and Acceleration                      51         13.01 Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement       52         13.02 Interest Hedge Contracts                         52         13.03 Acceleration of Obligations; Termination of               Commitments                                      52         13.04 Liability of Trustee                             52         13.05 DSR L/C                                          52 Section 14. Conditions Precedent                               53 Section 15. Further Representations and Warranties             55 Section 16. Miscellaneous                                      55         16.01 Notices                                          55         16.02 Counterparts                                     55         16.03 Amendments                                       56         16.05 GOVERNING LAW                                    56         16.06 Severability                                     56         16.07 Further Assurances                               56         16.08 Successors and Assigns                           56         16.09 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies                   56         16.10 Conflicts                                        56         16.12 RELEASE OF CLAIMS                                57         16.13 Lease                                            57         16.14 Survival                                         58 SCHEDULE I   - Priority Commitments; Roll-Up Loans; Residual Loans EXHIBIT A    - Form of Priority Credit Agreement EXHIBIT B    - Form of Proposed DIP Facility Agreement EXHIBIT C    - Notice Information            THIS SECOND OMNIBUS RESTRUCTURING AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of December 4, 2002, is entered into among LAKE ROAD GENERATING COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Company"); LAKE ROAD TRUST LTD., a Delaware statutory trust (the "Owner"), WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, in its individual capacity (the "Trust Company") and as trustee of the Owner (the "Trustee"); the LENDERS and INTEREST HEDGE PARTIES; SOCIETE GENERALE, as issuer of the DSR L/C and the RCE L/C under the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement (as defined below); CITIBANK, N.A., as issuer of the Working Capital L/Cs under the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement (as defined below); CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"); CITIBANK, N.A., as security agent for the Creditors (in such capacity, the "Security Agent"); the PRIORITY LENDERS; CITIBANK, N.A., as agent for the Priority Lenders (in such capacity, the "Priority Agent"); and PG&E NATIONAL ENERGY GROUP, INC. ("NEG"), a Delaware corporation.             WHEREAS, the Company, the Owner, the Trust Company, the Trustee, the Lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent are parties to the Participation Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1999 (as amended, the "Participation Agreement");             WHEREAS, the Owner, the Tranche A Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Tranche A Loan Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1999 (as amended, the "Tranche A Loan Agreement");             WHEREAS, the Owner, the Tranche B Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Tranche B Loan Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1999 (as amended, the "Tranche B Loan Agreement");             WHEREAS, the Company, Citibank, N.A., as the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Working Capital Lenders party thereto, Socit Gnrale, as the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the L/C Banks party thereto and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1999 (as amended, the "Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement");             WHEREAS, the Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company, the Lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent are parties to the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1999 (as amended, the "Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement");             WHEREAS, the Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent are parties to the Security Deposit Agreement, dated as of August 28, 1999 (as amended, the "Security Deposit Agreement");             WHEREAS, pursuant to the Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents, the Company and the other parties thereto agreed, among other things, to the terms and conditions of the construction and lease financing of the Project;             WHEREAS, (i) an Incipient NEG Downgrade Event with respect to NEG occurred on August 5, 2002, and pursuant to Section 5.1(w) of the Participation Agreement, the Company became obligated to pay or cause to be paid to the Security Agent all Scheduled Debt Service as such amounts became due and payable and (ii) the Company has advised the Security Agent and the Lenders that it will no longer comply with such payment obligation (and the Lenders have reserved all rights with respect thereto);             WHEREAS, additional funding is required to pay for general working capital needs, certain debt service and to finance draws on letters of credit issued to support gas supply and transportation arrangements and power sales arrangements;             WHEREAS, the Company has, in light of existing Defaults and Events of Default, requested (i) certain amendments, consents and waivers with respect to the Participation Agreement and certain other Operative Documents and (ii) new financing to fund payments for Operating Costs and certain debt service obligations; and             WHEREAS, the Priority Lenders have agreed to provide financing to fund Operating Costs and general working capital needs, and the existing Creditors have agreed to amend the Participation Agreement and certain other Operative Documents in connection with such new financing, including the amendment of certain intercreditor provisions.             NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:             Section 1.  Definitions.             1.01 Except as otherwise defined in this Agreement, terms defined in Annex A to the Participation Agreement are used herein (including in the recitals hereto) as defined therein (and the principles of interpretation set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement shall apply to such terms).  The following terms used herein shall have the following respective meanings:             "75% Priority Lenders" means, at any time, Priority Lenders holding at least in excess of 75% of the aggregate amount of the Priority Commitments outstanding at such time (or, in the case of Priority Commitments that have expired or been terminated, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Loans made under such Priority Commitments and outstanding at such time).             "Case" means, with respect to a Debtor, a case commenced under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code where such Person is the debtor and debtor-in-possession.             "Collateral Proceeds" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.01(f) of this Agreement.             "Court" means the United States Bankruptcy Court having jurisdiction over the Case from time to time.             "Cover" means, with respect to any letter of credit, cash collateral with respect to the related Letter of Credit Liabilities.  The term "Cover" used as a verb shall have a correlative meaning.             "Creditor-Provided DIP Facility" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(a) of this Agreement.             "Debtor" means the Company or the Owner.             "DIP Facility" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(a) of this Agreement.             "DIP Lenders" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(a) of this Agreement.             "Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 14 of this Agreement.             "Excluded Collateral" means the right of the Company to receive payments of (i) Buydown Damages and (ii) other buydown amounts received with respect to performance related liquidated damages.             "Existing Obligations" means the Tranche A Loans, the Tranche B Loans, the L/C Reimbursement Loans, the Working Capital Loans (and, without duplication, the Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) and the Settlement Amounts existing on the Effective Date, after giving effect to the capitalization of unpaid amounts with respect to such Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, L/C Reimbursement Loans, Working Capital Loans (and, without duplication, Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) and Settlement Amounts as provided for in Section 2.8 of the Tranche A Loan Agreement, Section 2.8 of the Tranche B Loan Agreement, Section 2.10 of the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement and Section 12 of this Agreement.             "Interest Reserve Schedule" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.             "Letter of Credit Liabilities" means, at any time in respect of any letter of credit, the sum, computed without duplication, of the following: (a) the undrawn stated amount of such letter of credit plus (b) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all reimbursement obligations of the Company at such time due and payable in respect of all drawings made under such letter of credit.             "NEG Demand Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.14 of this Agreement.             "NEG Restructuring" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.12(b) of this Agreement.             "Non-Participating Creditors" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(a) of this Agreement.             "Primed Creditors" means, collectively, Roll-Up Holders and Residual Holders in their capacities as such.             "Primed Obligation Deficiency" means the amount of any claims of the Primed Creditors in respect of the Primed Obligations which are determined to constitute an unsecured claim (or equivalent) in a Proceeding.             "Primed Obligations" means Roll-Up Obligations and Residual Obligations.             "Priority Borrowing Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Collateral" means all Collateral other than Excluded Collateral.             "Priority Credit Facility" means the financing provided pursuant to the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Obligation Deficiency" means the amount of any claims of the Priority Lenders in respect of the Priority Obligations which are determined to constitute an unsecured claim (or equivalent) in a Proceeding.             "Proceeding" means, with respect to the Company or any other Debtor, any case, proceeding or other action by or against under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, agreement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors.             "Proposed DIP Facility Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.06(a) of this Agreement.             "Required Roll-Up Holders" means, at any time, Roll-Up Holders holding at least in excess of 50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Roll-Up Loans outstanding at such time.             "Residual Holder Agent" means the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Residual Holders (or a sub-     agent of the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Residual Holders appointed in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement for purposes of Section 11.02 of this Agreement).             "Residual Holders" means holders of Residual Obligations in their respective capacities as such.             "Residual Loans" means Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, L/C Reimbursement Loans, Working Capital Loans (and, without duplication, Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) and Settlement Amounts that, as of the date of             determination, have not been subject to the "roll-up" provision of Section 10 of this Agreement.  The Residual Loans held by each Priority Lender or other Creditor as of the Effective Date are set forth in the column entitled "Current Residual Loans" on Schedule I to this Agreement on the Effective Date and shall, from time to time after the Effective Date, be set forth on Schedule I to this Agreement as updated in accordance with Section 10 of this Agreement.             "Residual Obligations" means, at any time, all indebtedness, financial liabilities and obligations of the Company and the Owner, of whatsoever nature and howsoever evidenced (including, but not limited to, principal, interest, fees, reimbursement obligations, penalties, indemnities and legal and other expenses, whether due after acceleration or otherwise) to the Creditors pursuant to the Operative Documents and arising under or in connection with the Residual Loans.             "Roll-Up Collateral" means all Collateral, subject to the provisions of Section 11.01 of this Agreement.             "Roll-Up Collateral Proceeds" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.02(f) of this Agreement.             "Roll-Up Holder Agent" means the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Roll-Up Holders (or a sub-     agent of the Administrative Agent acting for the benefit of the Roll-Up Holders appointed in accordance with Section 2.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement for purposes of Section 11.02 of this Agreement).             "Roll-Up Holders" means holders of Roll-Up Obligations in their respective capacities as such.             "Roll-Up Loans" means Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, L/C Reimbursement Loans, Working Capital Loans (and, without duplication, Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) and Settlement Amounts that, as of the date of determination, have been designated as or have become Roll-     Up Loans in accordance with Section 10 of this Agreement.  The Roll-Up Loans held by each Priority Lender as of the Effective Date are set forth in the column entitled "Current Roll-Up Loans" on Schedule I to this Agreement on the Effective Date and shall, from time to time after the Effective Date, be set forth on Schedule I to this Agreement as updated in accordance with Section 10 of this Agreement.             "Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency" means the amount of any claims of the Roll-Up Holders in respect of the Roll-Up Obligations which are determined to constitute an unsecured claim (or equivalent) in a Proceeding.           "Roll-Up Obligations" means, at any time, all indebtedness, financial liabilities and obligations of the Company and the Owner, of whatsoever nature and howsoever evidenced (including, but not limited to, principal, interest, fees, reimbursement obligations, penalties, indemnities and legal and other expenses, whether due after acceleration or otherwise) to the Creditors pursuant to the Operative Documents and arising under or in connection with the Roll-Up Loans.             "Roll-Up Turnover Property" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.02(l) of this Agreement.             "Settlement Amounts" means the Tranche A Settlement Amounts and the Tranche B Settlement Amounts.             "Structural Guaranty Demand Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13 of this Agreement.             "Super-Majority Priority Lenders" means, at any time, Priority Lenders holding at least in excess of 66 2/3% of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Commitments outstanding at such time (or, in the case of Priority Commitments that have expired or been terminated, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Loans made under such Priority Commitments and outstanding at such time).             "Tranche A Settlement Amounts" means, collectively, all of the Owner's and Company's payment obligations under each Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract on the Effective Date, after giving effect to the termination thereof.             "Tranche B Settlement Amounts" means, collectively, all of the Owner's and Company's payment obligations under each Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract on the Effective Date, after giving effect to the termination thereof.             "Turnover Property" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.01(l) of this Agreement.             1.02 Principles of Interpretation.  In addition to the Rules of Usage set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement which automatically apply to this Agreement mutatis mutandis, any reference in the Operative Documents, Project Documents or Security Documents to any provision which has been amended by this Agreement, shall be deemed to be a reference to such provision as amended hereby.             Section 2.  Participation Agreement.  The Participation Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           2.01 Section 6.5(a)(ii) of the Participation Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:             "(ii)  Remaining Proceeds of the NEG Guarantee or a Substitute Credit Support Instrument.  The proceeds of the NEG Guarantee or a Substitute Credit Support Instrument remaining after payment of all amounts due in respect of the Tranche A Loans shall be applied by the Security Agent to prepay the Tranche B Loans and the Settlement Amounts on a pro rata basis; provided that (i) with respect to prepayments to be made to a Tranche B Lender, prepayments shall be applied (x) ratably to such Tranche B Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Loans held by such Tranche B Lender (without regard as to whether, at the time of payment, such Tranche B Loans constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (y) with respect to such Tranche B Lender, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Tranche B Lender's Residual Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans and thereafter to such Tranche B Lender's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans and (ii) with respect to prepayments to be made to an Interest Hedge Party, payments shall be applied (x) ratably to such Interest Hedge Party on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Settlement Amounts held by such Interest Hedge Party (without regard as to whether, at the time of prepayment, such Settlement Amounts constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (y) with respect to such Interest Hedge Party, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Interest Hedge Party's Residual Loans consisting of Settlement Amounts and thereafter to such Interest Hedge Party's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Settlement Amounts."             2.02 Section 7.1 of the Participation Agreement is amended by inserting a new clause (t) as follows:             "(t) Post-Effective Event of Default.  The Priority Agent shall have notified the Administrative Agent, in writing, that a Post-Effective Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing."             2.03 Section 10.3 of the Participation Agreement is hereby amended as follows:             (a)  Clause (d) is deleted and replaced, in its entirety by the following clause:             "(d) to the arrangers, the Agents and the Priority Agent, all fees specified in the Fee Letters at the time and in the manner required by the Fee Letters (or, in the case of the Priority Agent, all fees referenced in Section 2.15 of the Priority Credit Agreement);"             (b)  Clause (f) is amended by deleting the phrase "other than principal and interest on the Loans," and replacing it with the phrase "other than principal and interest on the Loans and Priority Loans,".             2.04 The first sentence of Section 10.7 of the Participation Agreement is amended as follows:             (a)  Part (a) of the proviso is amended by deleting and replacing the phrase "the Investors" with the phrase "the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders".             (b)  Part (c) of the proviso is amended by deleting and replacing the phrase "any Investor" with the phrase "the Priority Agent, any Priority Lender".             2.05 Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement is hereby amended by inserting after the contact information for the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the following additional contact information:             "If to the Priority Agent:             Citibank, N.A.           Two Penns Way, Suite 200           New Castle, DE  19720           Tel:  (302) 894-6084           Fax:  (302) 894-6120           Attention:  David Chiu             with a copy to:             Citibank, N.A.           388 Greenwich Street           New York, NY  10013           Tel:  (212) 816-1048           Fax:  (212) 816-0485           Attention:  Nasir Khan, Vice President             If to the Priority L/C Issuer:             Citibank, N.A.           Two Penns Way, Suite 200           New Castle, DE  19720           Tel:  (302) 894-6084           Fax:  (302) 894-6120           Attention:  David Chiu             with a copy to:             Citibank, N.A.           388 Greenwich Street           New York, NY  10013           Tel:  (212) 816-1048           Fax:  (212) 816-0485           Attention:  Nasir Khan, Vice President"             2.06 The following new defined terms are hereby inserted into Annex A of the Participation Agreement in the appropriate alphabetical order:             "Additional Project Contract" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Available Priority Commitment" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Cash Collateralization Accounts" means the Priority L/C Account and the Priority Commitment Account.             "Cover Amount" means the outstanding unpaid amount of the Cover Obligation.             "Cover Obligation" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.16 of this Agreement.             "DIP Lenders" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Interest Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Liquidation Waterfall" means the cash waterfall set forth in Section 5.13(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.             "Post-Effective Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in the Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Agent" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Commitment Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.             "Priority Commitment Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Commitments" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Credit Agreement" means the Priority Credit and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002, among the Company, the Owner, Citibank, N.A., as Priority L/C Issuer, the Priority Lenders party thereto, the Administrative Agent and Citibank, N.A., as Priority Agent thereunder.             "Priority L/C" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority L/C Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.             "Priority L/C Issuer" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Lenders" means the lenders party to the Priority Credit Agreement as "Priority Lenders".             "Priority Loans" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Notes" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Obligations" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Priority Scheduled Debt Service" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Proposed DIP Facility Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Required Priority Lenders" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             "Residual Loans" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Revenue Account Waterfall" means the cash waterfall set forth in Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement.           "Roll-Up Loans" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement" means the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002, among the Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company, each Tranche A Lender, each Tranche B Lender, each Interest Hedge Party, the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Priority Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Priority Agent and NEG.             "Settlement Amounts" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Tranche A Settlement Amounts" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Tranche B Settlement Amounts" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.             "Waterfall Commencement Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             2.07 Annex A of the Participation Agreement is hereby further amended as follows:             (i)  The definition of "Applicable Margin" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following definition:             "Applicable Margin" means 5.50%.             (ii) The definition of "Imposition" is amended by deleting the phrase "Lender Holder or Investor" in clause (iii) thereof and replacing such phrase with "Lender or Priority Lender".             (iii) The title of the definition "Lender and Investor Obligations" is hereby amended to read "Lender Obligations".             (iv) The definition of "Operating Costs" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following definition:             "Operating Costs" means, for any period, cash amounts incurred and paid by the Company or the Owner for the operation and maintenance of the Project or any portion thereof, including premiums for insurance policies, fuel supply and fuel transportation costs, costs of obtaining any other materials, supplies or services for the Project, utilities, costs of maintaining, renewing and amending Governmental Actions, franchise, licensing, property, real estate, sales and excise taxes (excluding federal or state income taxes), general and administrative expenses, employee salaries, wages and other employment-related costs, business management and administrative services fees, costs required to be paid by the Company or the Owner under any Operative Document (other than Priority Scheduled Debt Service, Scheduled Debt Service and other amounts due to the Lenders and Interest Hedge Parties in respect of the Loans or Interest Hedge Obligations) or Project Contract (other than Project Costs), legal and other transaction costs, expenses and fees incurred by the Creditors or at their direction with marketing the Project for sale, and all other fees payable to the Priority Lenders (other than amounts included in Priority Scheduled Debt Service), necessary capital expenditures and all other fees and expenses necessary for the continued operation and maintenance of the Project and the conduct of the business of the Company.             (v)  The definition of "Operative Documents" is amended by (A) deleting the word "and" at the end of line (xix), (B) replacing the period at the end of line (xx) with a semicolon and (C) inserting at the end thereof, the following new lines: "(xxi) the Priority Credit Agreement; and (xxii) the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement."             (vi) The definition of "Project Budget" is amended by inserting the phrase "and the Priority Credit Agreement." at the end thereof.             (vii)  The definition of "Project Contracts" is amended by (A) deleting the word "and" at the end of line (xvii), (B) replacing the period at the end of line (xviii) with "; and" and (C) inserting at the end thereof, the following new line: "(xix)  any Additional Project Contract approved by Required Priority Lenders."             2.08 Schedule I to the Participation Agreement is hereby amended as follows:             (a)  The section entitled "Financing Terms" is hereby deleted.     (b)  The section entitled "Notices" is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the notice information set forth on Exhibit C to this Agreement.             Section 3.  Tranche A Loan Agreement.  The Tranche A Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:             3.01 Clause (e) of Section 2.8 of the Tranche A Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clauses (e), (f) and (g):             "(e) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche A Loans (and all other amounts due and owing (other than principal) with respect to the Tranche A Loans) will be payable in accordance with Section 5.2(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.             (f)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche A Loans from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (g)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche A Loans from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Loans that constitute Residual Loans shall be     accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount."             3.02 The second sentence of Section 2.11(a) of the Tranche A Loan Agreement is hereby amended by inserting, at the end thereof, the following proviso:             "; provided that (i) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Roll-Up Loans which are Tranche A Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche A Loans which constitute Roll-Up Loans then held by the Tranche A Lenders and (ii) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Residual Loans which are Tranche A Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche A Loans which constitute Residual Loans then held by the Tranche A Lenders."             Section 4.  Tranche B Loan Agreement.  The Tranche B Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:             4.01 Clause (d) of Section 2.8 of the Tranche B Loan Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clauses (d), (e) and (f):             "(d) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche B Loans (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to the Tranche B Loans) will be payable in accordance with Section 5.2(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.             (e)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche B Loans from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (f)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche B Loans from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Loans that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount."             4.02 The second sentence of Section 2.11(a) of the Tranche B Loan Agreement is hereby amended by inserting, at the end thereof, the following proviso:             "; provided that (i) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Roll-Up Loans which are Tranche B Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche B Loans which constitute Roll-Up Loans then held by the Tranche B Lenders and (ii) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Residual Loans which are Tranche B Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Tranche B Loans which constitute Residual Loans then held by the Tranche B Lenders."             Section 5.  Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement.  The Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement is hereby amended as follows:             5.01 Clause (d) of Section 2.10 of the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clauses (d), (e) and (f):             "(d) On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans (and, without duplication, Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) and all other amounts due and owing (other than principal) with respect to such Loans and obligations will be payable in accordance with Section 5.2(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.             (e)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such L/C Reimbursement Loans and/or Working Capital Loans from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of L/C Reimbursement Loans or Working Capital Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans, as the case may be and (B) each payment of L/C Reimbursement Loans or Working Capital Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans, as the case may be shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (f)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to L/C Reimbursement Loans or Working Capital Loans that constitute Residual Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such L/C Reimbursement Loans and/or Working Capital Loans from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans that constitute Residual Loans, as the case may be and (B) each payment of L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans that constitute Residual Loans, as the case may be shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount."             5.02 The second sentence of Section 2.13(a) of the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement is hereby amended by inserting, at the end thereof, the following proviso:             "; provided that (i) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Roll-Up Loans which are L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans, as the case may be, shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans that constitute Roll-Up Loans then held by the L/C Banks and Working Capital Lenders respectively and (ii) any payment made on account of principal of and interest on Residual Loans which are L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans, as the case may be, shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the L/C Reimbursement Loans and Working Capital Loans that constitute Residual Loans then held by the L/C Banks and Working Capital Lenders respectively."             Section 6.  Security Deposit Agreement.             6.01 The following defined terms are hereby inserted into Section 1.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement in the appropriate alphabetical order:             "Interest Reserve Account" means the L/C Reimbursement Interest Accrual Account.             "Interest Reserve Account Deposit" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(c)(i) of this Agreement.             "Interest Reserve Creditor" means any Lender, Interest Hedge Party, DSR/RCE L/C Issuer and Working Capital L/C Issuer.             "Interest Reserve Schedule" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(c)(ii) of this Agreement.             "Current Interest Reserve Obligations" means, as of each Interest Date, unpaid interest on the Pre-Existing Obligations that has accrued at a rate equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Margin applicable to each such Pre-Existing Obligation in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date; provided that unpaid interest on Pre-Existing Obligations that constitute Settlement Amounts shall have been deemed to accrue at a rate equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Margin applicable to Tranche B Loans in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date; provided further that for purposes of calculating interest above, interest shall accrue only on the Pre-Existing Obligations and not on any amount which has been capitalized thereon in accordance with Section 2.8 of the Tranche A Loan Agreement, Section 2.8 of the Tranche B Loan Agreement, Section 2.10 of the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement or Section 12 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement, respectively.             "Pre-Existing Obligations" means Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Working Capital Loans, L/C Reimbursement Loans, Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations, DSR L/C Reimbursement Obligations, Interest Hedge Obligations and all other obligations owing to the Creditors immediately prior to the Effective Date.             "Priority L/C Account" means the L/C Reimbursement Principal Accrual Account.           "Priority Commitment Account" means the Working Capital Principal Accrual Account.             "Required L/C Deposit Amount" means, on any Interest Date, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the total aggregate undrawn face amount of all Priority L/Cs outstanding on such Interest Date over (b) the amount on deposit in the Priority L/C Account on such Interest Date after giving effect to any transfers (i) into such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(b)(i) of this Agreement and (ii) from such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(a)(iii) of this Agreement.             "Required Commitment Deposit Amount" means, on any Interest Date, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the total aggregate amount of Priority Commitments over (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate undrawn face amount of all Priority L/Cs plus (ii) the amount then on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account after giving effect to any transfers (A) from such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(b)(i) of this Agreement and (B) into such account on such date pursuant to Section 5.2(a)(iii) of this Agreement.             The "Series" of a Pre-Existing Obligation refers to whether such obligation is owed in respect of a Tranche A Loan, Tranche B Loan, Working Capital Loan, Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation, L/C Reimbursement Loan, Tranche A Settlement Amount or Tranche B Settlement Amount.             "Supplemental Request Letter" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.13(a) of this Agreement.             "Working Capital L/C Account" means the Working Capital Principal Accrual Account.             6.02 Section 2.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso after the second sentence of such section:             "; provided, that the Security Agent shall hold and safeguard the Cash Collateralization Accounts (and the cash, cash equivalents, instruments, investments and other securities on deposit therein) during the term of this Agreement and shall treat the cash, cash equivalents, instruments, investments and other securities in the Cash Collateralization Accounts as pledged by the Company and the Owner (to the extent of their respective rights and interests therein) to the Security Agent for the exclusive benefit of the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent, to be held by the Security Agent in trust for the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent in accordance with the provisions hereof and of the other Security Documents."           6.03  Section 4.2(d) of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by adding "and Priority Loans" immediately following the term "Working Capital Loans".             6.04 Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:             "SECTION 5.1  Revenue Account.  After the Effective Date, the Security Agent shall, on each Interest Date, transfer from the Revenue Account the following amounts in the following order of priority:             first, to the Persons specified in the related Request Letter delivered in connection with such Interest Date, (i) the amounts specified in the related Request Letter to be the amount of Operating Costs then due and payable or payable prior to the next Interest Date and (ii) the bonuses payable to the EPC Contractor (but only to the extent such bonuses do not constitute Project Costs) then due and payable or payable prior to the next Interest Date;             second, (i) to the Security Agent, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Security Agent, (ii) to the Administrative Agent, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Administrative Agent, (iii) to the Trust Company, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Trustee and (iv) to the Priority Agent, the amount of any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Priority Agent;             third, to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders (i) an amount equal to the amount of all interest on the Priority Loans and Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations which is then due and payable and (ii) an amount equal to the amount of all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts then due and payable under, or in respect of, the Priority Credit Agreement;             fourth, (i) first, to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority L/C Issuer, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of all Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations then due and payable for the payment thereof and (ii) second, to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Priority Loans for the prepayment thereof (or, in the event that such Interest Date is the Priority Maturity Date, the payment thereof);           fifth, (i) first, into the Priority L/C Account, an amount equal to the then-applicable Required L/C Deposit Amount and (ii) second, into the Priority Commitment Account, an amount equal to the then-     applicable Required Commitment Deposit Amount;             sixth, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders holding Roll-Up Loans, an amount equal to the amount of all interest on the Roll-     Up Loans which is then due and payable;             seventh, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders holding Roll-Up Loans, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Roll-Up Loans for the payment thereof;             eighth, (A) to the Administrative Agent (i) for the account of the Tranche B Lenders, an amount equal to the sum of (x) interest on the Tranche B Loans that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable and (y) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) then payable to such Tranche B Lenders on account of all Tranche B Loans, (ii) for the account of the Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Parties, an amount equal to the amount of all interest on and outstanding principal of the Tranche B Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans, (iii) for the account of the Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties, an amount equal to the interest on the Tranche A Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable to such Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties, (iv) for the account of the L/C Banks, an amount equal to the sum of (x) interest on the L/C Reimbursement Loans that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable and (y) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) then payable to such L/C Banks on account of all L/C Reimbursement Loans and (v) for the account of the Working Capital Lenders, an amount equal to the sum of (x) interest on the Working Capital Loans (and, without duplication, the Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable and (y) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) then payable to such Working Capital Lenders on account of all Working Capital Loans and (B) into the Working Capital L/C Account, an amount equal to the Cover Amount;             ninth, to the Administrative Agent (i) for the account of the Tranche B Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Loans that are Residual Loans for the payment thereof, (ii) for the account of the Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche A Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans owed to such Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties for the payment thereof, (iii) for the account of the L/C Banks, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the L/C Reimbursement Loans that are Residual Loans for the payment thereof and (iv) for the account of the Working Capital Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Working Capital Loans that are Residual Loans (and, without duplication, the Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations) for the payment thereof;             tenth, so long as the Distribution Conditions are satisfied on such Interest Date (other than the condition that requires that the Tranche A Loans have been paid in full), to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Tranche A Lenders, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the interest on the Tranche A Loans that are Residual Loans which is then due and payable plus (ii) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal) then payable to such Tranche A Lenders on account of all Tranche A Loans;             eleventh, so long as the Distribution Conditions are satisfied on such Interest Date (other than the condition that requires that the Tranche A Loans have been paid in full), to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Tranche A Lenders, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Tranche A Loans that are Residual Loans for the payment thereof; and             twelfth, to each Creditor, any fee, cost, expense, indemnity or other amount payable to such Creditor on such date pursuant to the Operative Documents (other than on account of amounts identified in clauses first through eleventh above)             In the event any amounts contemplated by clause first above are due and payable on any date which is not an Interest Date, the Security Agent shall make transfers on account of such amounts in accordance with Section 5.13(a) of this Agreement.             In the event any amounts contemplated by clause second above are due and payable on any date which is not an Interest Date, the Security Agent shall make the transfers contemplated by clause second as directed in writing by the Administrative Agent from the Revenue Account on such date.           To the extent that there shall be insufficient funds in the Revenue Account to pay the Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations when due on any Interest Date as provided in this Section 5.1, the Security Agent shall make such transfers with funds withdrawn from the Priority L/C Account as provided in Section 5.2(a)(i) of this Agreement.             Any amount not transferred to another Account on any date shall be retained in the Revenue Account pending further application pursuant to this Agreement."             6.05 Section 5.2 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following section:             "SECTION 5.2.  Other Accounts.             (a)  Priority L/C Account.             (i)  On any Interest Date, if the cash on deposit in the Revenue Account is insufficient to pay, in full, all Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations then due and unpaid in accordance with the Revenue Account Waterfall, then the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Priority Agent, transfer funds on deposit in the Priority L/C Account (if any) to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority L/C Issuer in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the amount of such deficiency and (B) the amount then on deposit in the Priority L/C Account.             (ii)  In the event that payment of a Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation is due on any date other than an Interest Date and the conditions to the borrowing of Priority Loans set out in Section 4.2 of the Priority Credit Agreement have not been satisfied or waived as of such due date, then the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Priority Agent, transfer funds on deposit in the Priority L/C Account (if any) to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority L/C Issuer in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation that is then due and (B) the amount then on deposit in such account.             (iii)  If, on any date, the aggregate amount on deposit in the Priority L/C Account exceeds the aggregate undrawn face amount of all Priority L/Cs then outstanding, the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Priority Agent, transfer from the Priority L/C Account to the Priority Commitment Account an amount equal to such excess.             (iv)  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 5.2(a)(iv)), the Security Agent shall not transfer funds on deposit in the Priority L/C Account to make any payments under the Liquidation Waterfall, and the provisions of this Section 5.2(a) shall remain in effect until the expiry of all Priority L/Cs and the payment in full of all Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations.             (b)  Priority Commitment Account.             (i)  If, on any date prior to the end of the Priority Commitment Period, the Priority Agent notifies the Security Agent that the amount on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account exceeds the sum of (A) the Available Priority Commitments as of such date plus (B) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Priority Loans as of such date, then the Security Agent, acting at the direction of the Priority Agent, shall transfer such excess from the Priority Commitment Account to the Priority L/C Account.             (ii) On the earlier to occur of (A) the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated and (B) the Priority Maturity Date, the Security Agent, acting at the direction of the Priority Agent, shall transfer to the Priority Agent from the Priority Commitment Account an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the total aggregate amount then on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account and (2) the aggregate principal amount of Priority Loans then due and payable together with all accrued interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due in respect thereof.  To the extent that, after giving effect to the transfer contemplated by this Section 5.2(b)(ii) there shall remain any amount on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account, the Security Agent shall transfer such amount to the Revenue Account for application in accordance with the terms of Section 5.1 of this Agreement.             (iii) In the event that the Security Agent receives (A) a Notice of Action specifying that action be taken pursuant to Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement or (B) written notice from the Administrative Agent that the Lease has been terminated pursuant to Section 12.1 or 13.5 of the Lease (other than, in the event that, in connection with any such termination of the Lease, the Company has assumed all of the Owner's obligations in respect of the Tranche B Loans pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Participation Agreement), the Security Agent shall, prior to making any transfers under Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement, transfer to the Priority Agent from the Priority Commitment Account for the payment of Priority Loans together with all accrued interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due in respect thereof an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the total aggregate amount then on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account and (2) the aggregate principal amount of Priority Loans then due and payable together with all accrued interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due in respect thereof.  To the extent that, after giving effect to the transfer contemplated by this Section 5.2(b)(iii) there shall remain any amount on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account, the Security Agent shall transfer such amount to the Revenue Account for application in accordance with the terms of Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement.             (iv) Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents, except to the extent provided in Section 5.2(b)(iii) above, the Security Agent shall not transfer funds on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account to make any payments under the Liquidation Waterfall.             (c)  Interest Reserve Account.             (i)  On the Effective Date, there shall be deposited into the Interest Reserve Account the proceeds of Priority Loans in the amount of $6,000,000 (the Interest Reserve Account Deposit").  In furtherance of the foregoing, if the Company or the Owner shall receive any amounts in respect of the Interest Reserve Account Deposit, it shall immediately deliver such amounts in the exact form received to the Security Agent, and the Security Agent shall deposit such proceeds upon receipt thereof into the Interest Reserve Account.  The Security Agent shall have the right to receive all Interest Reserve Account Deposits directly from the Persons owing the same.  All such Interest Reserve Account Deposits received by or on behalf of the Security Agent shall be deposited upon receipt thereof into the Interest Reserve Account.             (ii)  On the Effective Date, the Security Agent shall transfer from the Interest Reserve Account to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Interest Reserve Creditors, $4,065,887.13 (which amount is net of amounts applied from a draw on the DSR L/C as described in Section 13.05 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement), in satisfaction of the accrued and unpaid interest on the Pre-Existing Obligations and all other fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts due and owing (including any default interest) with respect to the Pre-Existing Obligations which shall be paid by the Administrative Agent to the Interest Reserve Creditors in accordance with a schedule setting forth such amount (the "Interest Reserve Schedule").             (iii)  On any Interest Date and prior to giving effect to the transfers contemplated by Section 5.1 of this Agreement to be made on such date, the Security Agent shall, at the direction of the Administrative Agent, transfer funds on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account (if any) to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Interest Reserve Creditors in an amount equal to the amount of Current Interest Reserve Obligations owed to such Interest Reserve Creditors.             (iv) To the extent that, on any Interest Date, there shall be insufficient funds in the Interest Reserve Account to make all payments referred to in clause (iii) above, the Security Agent shall transfer any remaining funds in the Interest Reserve Account to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Interest Reserve Creditors on a pro rata basis based on the aggregate amount of the Current Interest Reserve Obligations owed to such Interest Reserve Creditor (without regard as to whether, at the time of payment, such Current Investor Reserve Obligations constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans); provided that amounts so received by an Interest Reserve Creditor shall be, notwithstanding any provision in any of the Operative Documents to the contrary, applied by such Interest Reserve Creditor to the applicable Series of Pre-     Existing Obligations with respect to which such Current Interest Reserve Obligation was paid and, to the extent that such amount is insufficient to pay all Current Interest Reserve Obligations with respect to a Series of Pre-Existing Obligations, then ratably against the Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans held by such Interest Reserve Creditor in respect of such Series of Pre-     Existing Obligations based on the outstanding principal amount of such Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans of such Series.             (d)  Working Capital L/C Account.             (i)  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 5.2(d)(ii)), upon any drawing under a Working Capital L/C, the Security Agent shall, in accordance with a direction issued by the Administrative Agent, transfer funds on deposit in the Working Capital L/C Account (if any) to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Working Capital L/C Issuer in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) the amount of Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligations related to such drawing and (B) the amount then on deposit in the Working Capital L/C Account; provided, that the transfers contemplated in this clause (i) shall occur prior to any transfer to be made pursuant to Section 5.1 of this Agreement.             (ii) To the extent that the outstanding Working Capital L/C is returned or cancelled, the Security Agent shall transfer all amounts on deposit in the Working Capital L/C Account to the Revenue Account for application in accordance with the terms of Section 5.1 of this Agreement."             6.06 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting clause (a) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:             "(a)  Request Letters.  The Company shall not have the right to issue a notice pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement or otherwise direct the transfer of funds from any Account, subject to the provisions of this Section 5.13(a).  The Company shall issue Request Letters in respect of the transfers and disbursements contemplated by Section 5.13(b) of this Agreement, and the Security Agent shall (i) promptly deliver a copy of each such Request Letter to the Priority Agent and Priority Lenders and (ii) make such transfers and disbursements contemplated by the related Request Letter unless otherwise directed by the Required Priority Lenders.  The Company may issue supplemental Request Letters (each, a "Supplemental Request Letter") in respect of transfers and disbursements for amounts contemplated by clause first of Section 5.01 of this Agreement that are due and payable on a date which is not an Interest Date and that were not contemplated by the then-applicable Request Letter, and the Security Agent shall, upon confirmation by the Administrative Agent and unless otherwise directed by the Required Priority Lenders, make such transfers and disbursements contemplated by any such Supplemental Request Letter."             6.07 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting clause (b) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:             "(b)  Transfer Prior to Notice of Action.  Until the Security Agent receives a Notice of Action directing that action be taken pursuant to Section 5.13(c) of this Agreement, the Security Agent shall make the specified transfers contemplated by priorities first through twelfth of Section 5.1 of this Agreement and the specified transfers contemplated by Section 5.2 of this Agreement."             6.08 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (c) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:             "(c)  Transfer After Notice of Action.  Subject to the first sentence of Section 5.13(e) of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.2(a) and (b) and Section 5.19(b) of this Agreement, at any time after the Security Agent receives (i) a Notice of Action specifying that action be taken pursuant to this Section 5.13(c) or (ii) written notice from the Administrative Agent that the Lease has been terminated pursuant to Section 12.1 or 13.5 of the Lease (other than, in the event that, in connection with any such termination of the Lease, the Company has assumed all of the Owner's obligations in respect of the Tranche B Loans pursuant to Section 6.4 of the Participation Agreement), the Security Agent shall transfer all amounts available in the Accounts in the following order of priority:             first, (i) to the Security Agent for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Security Agent, (ii) to the Priority Agent for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Priority Agent, (iii) to the Administrative Agent for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Administrative Agent and (iv) to the Trust Company for any unpaid fees, costs, indemnities and expenses then due and payable to it as Trustee under the Operative Documents,             second, to the Priority Agent for distribution (i) to each Priority Lender, an amount equal to the sum of (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Priority Loans and Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations made or held by such Priority Lender plus (B) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon plus (C) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts then payable to such Priority Lender under, or in respect of, the Priority Credit Agreement and (ii) into the Priority L/C Account, an amount equal to the excess of (A) the aggregate undrawn face amount under all Priority L/Cs over (B) the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Priority L/C Account;             third, to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Priority Lenders with Roll-Up Loans outstanding, an amount equal to the sum of (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Roll-Up Loans made by such Creditor plus (B) (B) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon plus (C) all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts then payable to such Creditor in respect of such Roll-Up Loans;             fourth, to the Administrative Agent for distribution (i) to each Tranche A Lender, each Tranche B Lender, each L/C Bank and each Working Capital Lender, the outstanding principal amount of Loans that are Residual Loans made by such Creditor and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and (ii) to the Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Parties and the Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Parties, the Settlement Amounts that are Residual Loans and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon;             fifth, to each Creditor, all fees, costs, expenses, indemnities and other amounts payable to such Creditor pursuant to the Operative Documents (other than on account of amounts identified in clauses first through fourth above); and             sixth, any surplus then remaining shall be paid to the Administrative Agent for distribution as directed by the Creditors, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.             6.09 Section 5.13 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (e) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following clause:             "(e)  NEG Guarantee.  The proceeds of (1) any payment made pursuant to Section 2.01 of the NEG Guarantee or (2) any payment made pursuant to a Substitute Credit Support Instrument, shall be applied promptly upon receipt thereof by the Security Agent to the payment in whole of the Tranche A Loans as required by Section 6.5(a)(i) of the Participation Agreement, together with all accrued interest and other amounts due in respect of the Tranche A Loans.  In the event that any proceeds of such payment under the NEG Guarantee or the Substitute Credit Support Instrument, as the case may be, remain after payment in full of all amounts due in respect of the Tranche A Loans, such proceeds shall be applied by the Security Agent in accordance with Section 6.5(a)(ii) of the Participation Agreement."             6.10 Section 5.16 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso at the end of the second sentience:             "; provided that the transfers made pursuant to clauses fourth and fifth of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall not be deemed to share the same level of priority, but shall have the priority set forth in such clauses fourth and fifth, respectively."             6.11  Section 9.6 of the Security Deposit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the phrase ", the Required Priority Lenders" after the term "Required Lenders".             Section 7.  Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement.             7.01 Section 1.1 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended as follows:           (i)  the definition of "Creditors" is amended by inserting the phrase ", the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent" at the end thereof.             (ii)  the definition of "Participants" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following definition:             "Participants" means the Lenders and the Priority Lenders.             (iii)  clause (b) of the definition of "Required Participants" is deleted and replaced, in its entirety, with the following clause:             "(b) in all other cases, the Required Lenders and Required Priority Lenders."             7.02 Section 3.8 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following phrase after the term "Participant":             ", "Priority Lender", "Priority L/C Issuer""             7.03  Section 8.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following new paragraphs at the end thereof:             "The Priority Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in the Priority Credit Agreement) delivered to it pursuant the Priority Credit Agreement and a register (the "Priority Register") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Priority Lenders and the Priority Commitment of, and principal amount of the Priority Loans owing to, each Priority Lender from time to time.  The entries in the Priority Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Company, the Owner and the Creditors shall treat each Person whose name is recorded as a Priority Lender in the Priority Register as the owner of the Priority Loan and any Priority Note evidencing such Priority Loan recorded therein for all purposes of this Agreement, the Priority Credit Agreement and any other Operative Document.  The Priority Register shall be available for inspection by such parties at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.             The Priority Agent shall also maintain a register (the "Roll-Up Register") for the recordation of the amounts of, and character or type of, each Roll-Up Loan held by each Priority Lender.  The entries in the Roll-Up Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Company, the Owner and the Creditors shall treat each Person whose name is recorded as a Roll-Up Lender in the Roll-Up Register as the owner of the Roll-Up Loan recorded therein for all purposes of this Agreement, the Priority Credit Agreement and any other Operative Document.  The Roll-Up Register shall be available for inspection by such parties at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice."             Section 8.  Mandatory Prepayments.             8.01 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement or any other provision of any other Operative Document to the contrary, but subject to the proviso set out below and the other provisions of this Section 8.01, any amounts required to be used to prepay Secured Obligations as provided in Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement shall be first used to prepay the following Priority Obligations or provide cash collateral in respect of outstanding Priority L/Cs and Priority Commitments in the following order of priority:             (a)  first, to pay Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations then due and unpaid together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon;             (b)  second, to prepay outstanding Priority Loans together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon;             (c)  third, to provide cash collateral with respect to Priority L/Cs through the deposit into the Priority L/C Account of an amount equal to the excess of: (i) the total aggregate undrawn face amount of Priority L/Cs then outstanding over (ii) the amount then on deposit in the Priority L/C Account; and             (d)  fourth, to provide cash collateral with respect to the Priority Commitments through the deposit into the Priority Commitment Account of an amount equal to the excess of (i) the total Priority Commitments over (ii) the sum of (A) the total aggregate undrawn face amount of Priority L/Cs then outstanding plus (B) the amount then on deposit in the Priority Commitment Account; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any proceeds of the NEG Guarantee and the EPC Buydown Damages (and other buydown amounts received with respect to performance related liquidated damages) shall be applied in accordance with Sections 8.02 and 8.03 of this Agreement. After making the prepayment referred to in clauses (a) through (d) above, any remaining amounts required to be used to prepay Secured Obligations shall be applied, with respect to each tranche or class of Secured Obligations, first to such portion of such tranche or class that consists of Roll-Up Loans and then to such portion which consists of Residual Loans.           8.02 Any proceeds of the NEG Guarantee shall be applied in accordance with Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement and Section 5.13(e) of the Security Deposit Agreement; provided that prepayments shall be applied (a) ratably to each Tranche A Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche A Loans held by such Tranche A Lender (without regard as to whether, at the time of prepayment, such Tranche A Loans constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (b) with respect to each Tranche A Lender, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Tranche A Lender's Residual Loans consisting of Tranche A Loans and thereafter to such Tranche A Lender's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Tranche A Loans.             8.03 All EPC Buydown Damages (including the proceeds of any letter of credit issued in connection with the EPC Contract) and other buydown amounts received with respect to performance related liquidated damages shall be applied in accordance Section 6.5(a)(iii) of the Participation Agreement; provided that with respect to prepayments to be made to a Tranche B Lender, prepayments shall be applied (a) ratably to such Tranche B Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Loans held by such Tranche B Lender (without regard as to whether, at the time of payment, such Tranche B Loans constitute Residual Loans or Roll-Up Loans) and (b) with respect to such Tranche B Lender, such prepayment is to be applied first to such Tranche B Lender's Residual Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans and thereafter to such Tranche B Lender's Roll-Up Loans consisting of Tranche B Loans.             Section 9.  Optional Prepayments.  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 9), the Company may make (or require the Owner to make) optional prepayments in accordance with Section 6.5(b) of the Participation Agreement only after such time as (a) the Priority Loans and Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations have been repaid or prepaid in full and (b) the Priority L/Cs and Priority Commitments have been cash collateralized in full.             Section 10.  Roll-Up Loans.             10.01 The parties hereto hereby agree that:             (a)  each Priority Lender shall be entitled to select three dollars of its Existing Obligations to be designated as Roll-Up Loans for each dollar of Priority Commitment committed by such Priority Lender as of the Effective Date;             (b)  interest capitalized on Roll-Up Loans in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents shall increase the principal amount of such Roll-Up Loans in respect of which interest was capitalized;             (c)  any assignment of Priority Commitments and/or Priority Loans under the Priority Credit Agreement shall adjust the Roll-Up Loans held by the assigning Priority Lender and the purchasing Priority Lender as set forth in Schedule I to the Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in the Priority Credit Agreement) executed in connection with such assignment;             (d)  if a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility is executed as contemplated under Section 10.06 of this Agreement and, pursuant to such DIP Facility the DIP Lenders are permitted to identify certain Residual Obligations to be treated as Roll-Up Loans hereunder, such amounts shall be treated as Roll-Up Loans hereunder;             (e)  if a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility described in the foregoing clause (d) is in effect, then any assignment of commitments and/or loans under such DIP Facility shall adjust the Roll-Up Loans held by the assigning DIP Lender and purchasing DIP Lender as identified in the instrument of assignment giving effect to such assignment; and             (f)  Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans are to be designated after giving effect to the payments contemplated pursuant to Section 13.05(d) of this Agreement to be made on the Effective Date.             10.02  Notwithstanding any designation or deemed designation of any Existing Obligations consisting of Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Settlement Amounts, Working Capital Loans or L/C Reimbursement Loans as Roll-Up Loans, such Existing Obligations shall maintain their character as Tranche A Loans, Tranche B Loans, Settlement Amounts, Working Capital Loans or L/C Reimbursement Loans under the Operative Documents.             10.03  On the date that is five Business Days following each Interest Date, the Administrative Agent shall (a) in consultation with the Priority Agent, update Schedule I to this Agreement to reflect each Creditor's current Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans as of such corresponding Interest Date and (b) distribute such updated Schedule I to each Creditor; provided that the obligation referred to in this Section 9.03 shall commence in connection with the Interest Date occurring in January, 2003.             10.04  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 10.04), no assignment of Roll-Up Loans or Residual Loans may be made unless made in connection with an assignment of (a) Priority Loans and/or Priority Commitments under the Priority Credit Agreement and/or (b) commitments and/or loans under a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility executed as contemplated under Section 11.06 of this Agreement.             Section 11.  Certain Agreements of the Creditors and Parties.      11.01   Subordination of Liens Securing Primed Obligations to Liens Securing Priority Obligations and Certain Related Bankruptcy Provisions.             (a)  Notwithstanding any provision contained herein, in the Priority Credit Agreement or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary but subject to Section 8.03 of this Agreement, any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created as security for the Primed Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Primed Obligations and without regard to whether there shall be a Lien on such asset securing the Priority Obligations or whether any such Lien shall be perfected or avoidable) and all of the Administrative Agent's and the Primed Creditors' rights and remedies under such Liens (other than any Lien on Excluded Collateral) are hereby expressly made, and at all times will be, subject and subordinate in all respects to any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created (x) as security for the Priority Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Priority Obligations), or (y) as security for any of the Priority Lenders', the Priority L/C Issuer's or the Priority Agent's claims (i) under the Priority Credit Agreement or (ii) arising out of the Priority Credit Facility (including Priority Lenders' and the Priority L/C Issuer's rights to receive payment and performance of the Priority Obligations).             In order to preserve the lien priority provided for hereunder, neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor shall, without prior written consent of the Security Agent (acting on the instruction of the Priority Agent), take a Lien to secure any Primed Obligation in any asset in which Security Agent does not hold a perfected Lien securing the Priority Obligations other than Excluded Collateral.  To the extent the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor shall take any such Lien (whether or not the Security Agent has consented thereto), for all purposes hereunder the asset subject to such Lien shall be deemed "Priority Collateral" hereunder and there shall be deemed to be a first priority Lien securing the Priority Obligations prior to the Lien securing the Primed Obligations as if such Lien were fully perfected.             (b)  In exercising rights and remedies under the Priority Credit Agreement or arising out of the Priority Credit Facility, the Required Priority Lenders directly, or the Priority Agent or Security Agent on behalf of the Required Priority Lenders, may enforce the provisions of the Operative Documents and exercise remedies thereunder or otherwise (or refrain from enforcing rights and exercising remedies), all in such order and in such manner as they may determine in the exercise of their sole business judgment.  Such exercise and enforcement shall include, without limitation, the rights to collect, sell, dispose of or otherwise realize upon all or any part of the Priority Collateral, to incur expenses in connection with such collection, sale, disposition or other realization and to exercise all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code of any applicable jurisdiction or under other applicable law with respect to the Priority Collateral.  Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor shall contest or otherwise challenge any such collection, sale, disposition or other realization of or upon all or any of the Collateral (other than the Excluded Collateral).             (c)  Notwithstanding any provisions herein, in the Priority Credit Agreement or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary, the provisions of this Agreement, automatically, and without any notice to, consent of, or action by the Administrative Agent or the Primed Creditors, or any other Person whatsoever, shall extend to all modifications, renewals, refinancings, restructurings, replacements and extensions whatsoever of the Priority Credit Agreement.  In addition, no release or waiver by the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent of any of their rights against any Person under the Priority Credit Agreement shall require notice to or consent of the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor, nor shall any such release or waiver operate as a defense to or release of any of the obligations of the Administrative Agent and the Primed Creditors or affect the rights or priority of the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent hereunder and under the Priority Credit Agreement.  The Security Agent acknowledges that the provisions of this Agreement nonetheless constitute notice from the Administrative Agent and the Primed Creditors of their Liens for purposes of  9-608(a)(1)(c) and  9-615(a)(3)(A) of the New York UCC (provided that, to the extent that the provisions of  9-608(a)(1)(c) or  9-615(a)(3)(A) of the New York UCC conflict with the provisions hereof, the provisions hereof shall control).  In furtherance of and without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of the terms of this Agreement) hereby agree and consent that, without notice to or assent by the Administrative Agent or Primed Creditors:             (i)  the obligations and liabilities of any Person with respect to the Priority Obligations and the terms and provisions of the Priority Credit Agreement, may, from time to time, in whole or part, be modified, supplemented, renewed, refinanced, restructured, replaced or extended or accelerated;             (ii)  the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may exercise or refrain from exercising any right, remedy or power granted to them under the Priority Credit Agreement or any other right, remedy or power at law or in equity or otherwise; and             (iii)  the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may, from time to time, release or waive, in whole or part, any and all Priority Collateral, security, funds, accounts and/or Liens at any time, present or future, held, given or intended to be given in connection with the Priority Obligations without impairing the Priority Lenders' or the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's rights hereunder with respect to any Priority Collateral, or Liens not so released or waived.             (d)  Any Liens on any of the Priority Collateral heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter granted to secure the Primed Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Primed Obligations), shall remain subordinate to all Liens heretofore or hereafter granted to secure the Priority Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Priority Obligations) irrespective of:             (i)  the time or order or method of attachment or perfection of the Liens heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter created to secure the Priority Obligations including the Liens created by any of the Security Documents;             (ii) the time or order of filing or recording of financing statements or other documents filed or recorded to perfect any security interest in any Priority Collateral;             (iii)     anything contained in any filing or agreement to which the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, or any of them collectively, now or hereafter may be a party;             (iv) the rules for determining priority under the Uniform Commercial Code or any other law governing the relative priorities of secured creditors; and             (v)  perfection of or avoidability of such Liens or claims secured thereby.             (e)  Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor will directly or indirectly oppose or otherwise defend against the Priority Lenders', the Priority Agent's or Security Agent's effort to obtain relief from the automatic stay with respect to the Priority Collateral in any Proceeding.  The Administrative Agents and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent shall be entitled to the lifting of the stay with respect to the Priority Collateral without the necessity of an evidentiary hearing and without the necessity or requirement that the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent establish or prove the value of the Priority Collateral, the lack of adequate protection of the Priority Lenders', the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's interests in all or any portion of the Priority Collateral, the lack of any reasonable prospect of reorganization with respect to the Company, any other Debtor or the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof, or the Company's, or any other Debtor's lack of equity in the Priority Collateral.  In furtherance thereof, to the extent permitted by law, the Administrative Agent, and by its acceptance of this Agreement, the Primed Creditors, hereby, waive and agree not to assert or take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Priority Lenders, any assertion or claim that the automatic stay provided by 11 U.S.C.  362 (arising upon any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code involving the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof) or any other stay provided under any other debtor relief law (whether statutory, common law, case law or otherwise) of any jurisdiction whatsoever, now or hereafter in effect, which may be or become applicable, shall operate or be interpreted to stay, interdict, condition, reduce or inhibit the ability of the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or Security Agent to enforce any rights, whether now or hereafter acquired, which the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, may have against the Company, any other Debtor, the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof.             (f)  The Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby acknowledge and agree that, as between the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent on the one hand and the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors on the other hand, the Security Documents grant the Security Agent for the benefit of Priority Lenders the benefit of first priority Liens on and security interests in, inter alia, all rents, fees, charges, accounts, revenues or other payments for the use or occupancy of any portion of the Priority Collateral and any other revenues, proceeds or profits from the Priority Collateral (the "Collateral Proceeds"), whether existing before or after the commencement of any Proceeding involving the Company, any other Debtor, the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof, that such Liens on the Priority Collateral have the benefit of full perfection under applicable law and that the revenues generated from the Priority Collateral will, notwithstanding any provision of the Bankruptcy Code which could be construed to the contrary (including, without limitation, the provisions of sections 552 and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code), constitute cash collateral of the Priority Lenders within the meaning of Bankruptcy Code section 363(a).  The Administrative Agent and, by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Primed Creditors, covenant and agree that they will not hereafter assert or cause to be asserted in any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code, either as a claim or as a defense, any contrary position as to the character of the Collateral Proceeds.             (g)  To the extent that the Company, any other Debtor or any other Person makes a payment or payments to the Priority Lenders (or the Priority Agent on their behalf), which payment or proceeds or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other Person under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds received, the Priority Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, and any and all Liens created by the Security Documents on the Priority Collateral in respect of the Priority Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, shall be revived and continue in full force and effect, as if such payment or proceeds had not been received by the Priority Lenders and any payments or other value received by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent or Primed Creditors from Priority Collateral or proceeds thereof or from any other source shall be deemed to be received in trust for the benefit of, and shall, upon request by the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent, be paid over to, the Priority Agent for distribution to the Priority Lenders in accordance with the provisions of the Priority Credit Agreement.             (h)  Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the court having jurisdiction over the Proceeding is hereby authorized to preserve the provisions hereof regarding payments and lien priority in approving any plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent or Primed Creditors.             (i)  To the extent permitted by law, the Administrative Agent, and by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Primed Creditors, hereby waive and agree not to assert or to take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Priority Lenders:             (i)  any right to require the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf to proceed against the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or to proceed against or exhaust any security held by the Priority Lenders or the Security Agent on their behalf at any time or to pursue any other remedy in the Priority Lenders' or the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's power under any other agreement before proceeding against the Priority Collateral;             (ii)  demand, presentment for payment, notice of nonpayment, protest, notice of protest and all other notices of any kind, or the lack of thereof, including notice of amendments to the Priority Credit Agreement except to the extent any notice is expressly required to be given hereunder;            (iii)  any right of claim or right to cause a marshaling of the assets of the Company, any Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or proration of the Lien of Priority Lenders (or Security Agent on their behalf) in the Priority Collateral; or             (iv)  any lack of notice of disposition or of manner of disposition of any Priority Collateral or any portion thereof.             (j)  In any Proceeding, if the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors, or any of them, has failed to file any claims or proofs of claim in respect of the debt evidenced by the Operative Documents (other than the Priority Credit Agreement and this Agreement) prior to the date 30 days prior to the last date to timely file such claim or proof of claim, the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent and the Security Agent on their behalf are hereby irrevocably authorized and empowered (in their own name or in the name of the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors) but shall have no obligation to file claims and proofs of claim in respect of the secured debt evidenced by the Operative Documents (other than the Priority Credit Agreement and this Agreement) and take such other action (including, without limitation, voting the secured debt of the Primed Obligations or enforcing any provision of the Operative Documents (other than Priority Credit Agreement and this Agreement)) as the Priority Lenders or Priority Agent or Security Agent on their behalf may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights or interests of Priority Lenders under this Agreement.             (k)  If any Proceeding is commenced in respect of the Company, any other Debtor or the Priority Collateral or any portion thereof, neither the Administrative Agent nor any Primed Creditor shall (i) vote their secured claims in favor of any plan of the Company or any other Debtor or any other Person except with the written consent of the Priority Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Priority Lenders; and (ii) oppose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing proposed by the Priority Agent at the request or direction of the Required Priority Lenders or propose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing opposed by Required Priority Lenders.  If requested to do so by the Priority Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Priority Lenders, the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors shall vote in favor of a plan that is substantially equivalent to a chapter 7 liquidation or permits the Security Agent to foreclose the Security Documents.             (l)  Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, any payment or distribution of any kind (whether in cash, cash equivalents, securities or other property) which otherwise would be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to the Primed Obligations, including, without limitation, any amount or distribution on account of a Primed Obligations Deficiency, but excluding any amount received on account of the Excluded Collateral or the NEG Guarantee, which is received by the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor will be paid or delivered directly to the Priority Agent for application to (in the case of cash or cash equivalents) or as collateral for (in the case of non-cash Property or securities which non-cash Property or securities are referred to as "Turnover Property") the payment of the Priority Obligations until Priority Agent has received, for application to the Priority Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the full amount of the Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency).  If any such payment or distribution is received by the Administrative Agent or any Primed Creditor before the Priority Agent has received, for application to the Priority Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency), then the Administrative Agent and such Primed Creditors will be deemed to have received the same in trust for the Priority Lenders, and will immediately remit such payment or distribution to the Priority Agent for distribution to the Priority Lenders in accordance with the provisions of the Priority Credit Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Priority Agent of cash or cash equivalents in an amount equal to the Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency) for application to the Priority Obligations, the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors shall be entitled to receive any payments to which they are otherwise entitled.             (m)  To the extent the payments or distributions described in clause (l) above (i) are cash or cash equivalents, the amount thereof shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency), or (ii) are Turnover Property, the amount of cash or cash equivalents realized by the Priority Lenders from disposition or other realization of such Turnover Property shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Priority Obligations (including the amount of any Priority Obligation Deficiency).  If the Priority Lenders elect to dispose of any Turnover Property, at any time after receipt of Turnover Property, the Priority Lenders (or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf) may exercise in respect of the Turnover Property, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for in this Agreement or otherwise available to them, all the rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the New York UCC (whether or not the New York UCC applies to the affected Turnover Property), and the Priority Lenders may also in their sole discretion, without notice except as specified below, sell the Turnover Property or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange or broker's board or at any of the Priority Agent's or the Security Agent's offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at such time or times and at such price or prices and upon such other terms as the Priority Lenders may deem commercially reasonable, irrespective of the impact of any such sales on the market price of the Turnover Property.  Any Priority Lender may be the purchaser of any or all of the Turnover Property at any such sale.  Each purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors, and the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors hereby waive (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) all rights of redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted.  The Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, ten days' notice to the Administrative Agent of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification.  The Priority Lenders shall not be obligated to make any sale of Turnover Property regardless of notice of sale having been given.  The Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so adjourned.  The Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby waive any claims against the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent arising by reason of the fact that the price at which any Turnover Property may have been sold at such a private sale was less than the price which might have been obtained at a public sale, even if the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf accept the first offer received and do not offer such Turnover Property to more than one offeree.  If the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the Turnover Property are sufficient to pay the entire amount of the Priority Obligations (including the Priority Credit Agreement Deficiency) in full in cash or cash equivalents, the Priority Agent shall promptly remit to the Administrative Agent the amount of any excess proceeds, less the reasonable fees, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Priority Lenders, Priority Agent or Security Agent in conducting such sales and collecting the proceeds thereof for distribution to the Priority Lenders.  Upon payment of the Priority Obligations in full in cash or cash equivalents, Priority Agent or the Security Agent (acting on the instructions of the Priority Agent) shall promptly remit to the Administrative Agent any excess proceeds. To the extent any of the Turnover Property constitutes securities for which registration or other qualification is required pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or other Governmental Authorities), then to the extent required by Priority Lenders, Priority Agent or Security Agent on their behalf, the Administrative Agent and Primed Creditors shall cooperate with the Priority Lenders in good faith to facilitate such registration or satisfaction of other qualifications requirements.            11.02   Subordination of Liens Securing Residual Obligations to Liens Securing Roll-Up Obligations and Certain Related Bankruptcy Provisions.  The provisions of this Section 11.02 are subject in all respects to the provisions of Section 11.01 of this Agreement.             (a)  Subject to Section 11.01 of this Agreement but notwithstanding any other provision contained herein or in the other Operative Documents to the contrary but subject to Section 8.03 of this Agreement, any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created as security for the Residual Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Residual Obligations and without regard to whether there shall be a Lien on such asset securing the Roll-Up Obligations or whether any such Lien shall be perfected or avoidable) and all of the Residual Holder Agent's and the Residual Holders' rights and remedies under such Liens (other than any Lien on Excluded Collateral) are hereby expressly made, and at all times will be, subject and subordinate in all respects to any Liens now existing or that may in the future be created (x) as security for the Roll-Up Obligations or otherwise in connection therewith (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Roll-Up Obligations), or (y) as security for any of the Roll-Up Holders' or the Roll-Up Holder Agent's claims (i) under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents or (ii) arising out of the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Roll-Up Obligations (including Roll-Up Holders' and the Priority L/C Issuer's rights to receive payment and performance of the Roll-Up Obligations).             In order to preserve the lien priority provided for hereunder, neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder shall, without prior written consent of the Security Agent (acting on the instruction of the Required Roll-Up Holders), take a Lien to secure any Residual Obligation in any asset in which Security Agent does not hold a perfected Lien securing the Roll-Up Obligations other than Excluded Collateral.  To the extent the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder shall take any such Lien (whether or not the Security Agent has consented thereto), for all purposes hereunder the asset subject to such Lien shall be deemed "Roll-Up Collateral" hereunder and there shall be deemed to be a first priority Lien securing the Roll-Up Obligations prior to the Lien securing the Residual Obligations as if such Lien were fully perfected.             (b)  In exercising rights and remedies under the Priority Credit Agreement or arising out of the Priority Credit Facility, the Required Roll-Up Holders directly, or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent (acting on the instructions of the Required Roll-Up Holders), may enforce the provisions of the Operative Documents and exercise remedies thereunder or otherwise (or refrain from enforcing rights and exercising remedies), all in such order and in such manner as they may determine in the exercise of their sole business judgment.  Such exercise and enforcement shall include, without limitation, the rights to collect, sell, dispose of or otherwise realize upon all or any part of the Roll-Up Collateral, to incur expenses in connection with such collection, sale, disposition or other realization and to exercise all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code of any applicable jurisdiction or under other applicable law with respect to the Roll-Up Collateral but always subject to Section 8.03 of this Agreement.  Neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder shall contest or otherwise challenge any such collection, sale, disposition or other realization of or upon all or any of the Roll-Up Collateral except to the extent such collection, sale, disposition or realization is inconsistent with Section 8.03 of this Agreement.             (c)  Subject to Section 11.01 of this Agreement but notwithstanding any other provision in the Operative Documents to the contrary, the provisions of this Agreement, automatically, and without any notice to, consent of, or action by the Residual Holder Agent or the Residual Holders, or any other Person whatsoever, shall extend to all modifications, renewals, refinancings, restructurings, replacements and extensions whatsoever of any of the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Roll-Up Obligations.  In addition, no release or waiver by the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent of any of their rights against any Person under the this Agreement or the other Operative Documents shall require notice to or consent of the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder, nor shall any such release or waiver operate as a defense to or release of any of the obligations of the Residual Holder Agent and the Residual Holders or affect the rights or priority of the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent hereunder and under the other Operative Documents.  The Security Agent acknowledges that the provisions of this Agreement nonetheless constitute notice from the Residual Holder Agent and the Residual Holders of their Liens for purposes of  9-608(a)(1)(c) and  9-615(a)(3)(A) of the New York UCC (provided that, to the extent that the provisions of  9-608(a)(1)(c) or  9-615(a)(3)(A) of the New York UCC conflict with the provisions hereof, the provisions hereof shall control).  In furtherance of and without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Residual Holder Agent and the Residual Holders (by their acceptance of the terms of this Agreement) hereby agree and consent that, without notice to or assent by the Residual Holder Agent or Residual Holders:             (i)  the obligations and liabilities of any Person with respect to the Roll-Up Obligations and the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents, may, from time to time, in whole or part, be modified, supplemented, renewed, refinanced, restructured, replaced or extended or accelerated;             (ii) the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may exercise or refrain from exercising any right, remedy or power granted to them under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents or any other right, remedy or power at law or in equity or otherwise; and             (iii)  the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may, from time to time, release or waive, in whole or part, any and all Roll-Up Collateral, security, funds, accounts and/or Liens at any time, present or future, held, given or intended to be given in connection with the Roll-Up Obligations without impairing the Roll-Up Holders' or the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's rights hereunder with respect to any Roll-Up Collateral, or Liens not so released or waived.             (d)  Except for any Lien on Excluded Collateral, any Liens on any of the Roll-Up Collateral heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter granted to secure the Residual Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Residual Obligations), shall remain subordinate to all Liens heretofore or hereafter granted to secure the Roll-Up Obligations (including the Liens created by the Security Documents to the extent they secure the Roll-Up Obligations) irrespective of:             (i)  the time or order or method of attachment or perfection of the Liens heretofore, concurrently herewith or hereafter created to secure the Roll-Up Obligations including the Liens created by any of the Security Documents;             (ii)  the time or order of filing or recording of financing statements or other documents filed or recorded to perfect any security interest in any Roll-Up Collateral;             (iii)  anything contained in any filing or agreement to which the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, or any of them collectively, now or hereafter may be a party;             (iv) the rules for determining priority under the Uniform Commercial Code or any other law governing the relative priorities of secured creditors; and             (v)  perfection of or avoidability of such Liens or claims secured thereby.             (e)  Neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder will directly or indirectly oppose or otherwise defend against the Roll-Up Holders', the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or Security Agent's effort to obtain relief from the automatic stay with respect to the Roll-Up Collateral in any Proceeding.  The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent shall be entitled to the lifting of the stay with respect to the Roll-Up Collateral without the necessity of an evidentiary hearing and without the necessity or requirement that the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent establish or prove the value of the Roll-Up Collateral, the lack of adequate protection of the Roll-Up Holders', the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's interests in all or any portion of the Roll-Up Collateral, the lack of any reasonable prospect of reorganization with respect to the Company, any other Debtor or the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof, or the Company's, or any other Debtor's lack of equity in the Roll-Up Collateral.  In furtherance thereof, to the extent permitted by law, the Residual Holder Agent, and by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Residual Holders, hereby, waive and agree not to assert or take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Roll-Up Holders, any assertion or claim that the automatic stay provided by 11 U.S.C.  362 (arising upon any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code involving the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof) or any other stay provided under any other debtor relief law (whether statutory, common law, case law or otherwise) of any jurisdiction whatsoever, now or hereafter in effect, which may be or become applicable, shall operate or be interpreted to stay, interdict, condition, reduce or inhibit the ability of the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent to enforce any rights, whether now or hereafter acquired, which the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf, may have against the Company, any other Debtor, the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof.  None of the foregoing shall affect any rights of a Tranche B Lender, whether as a Roll-Up Holder or as a Residual Holder, pursuant to Section 8.03 of this Agreement or prevent any such Tranche B Lender from taking any step to protect, preserve and/or enforce any such right, in each case, in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents.             (f)  The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby acknowledge and agree that, as between the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent on the one hand and the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders on the other hand, except as otherwise provided in Section 8.03 of this Agreement, the Security Documents grant the Security Agent for the benefit of Roll-Up Holders the benefit of first priority Liens on and security interests in, inter alia, all rents, fees, charges, accounts, revenues or other payments for the use or occupancy of any portion of the Roll-Up Collateral and any other revenues, proceeds or profits from the Roll-Up Collateral (the "Roll-Up Collateral Proceeds"), whether existing before or after the commencement of any Proceeding involving the Company, any other Debtor, the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof, that such Liens on the Roll-Up Collateral have the benefit of full perfection under applicable law and that the revenues generated from the Roll-Up Collateral will, notwithstanding any provision of the Bankruptcy Code which could be construed to the contrary (including, without limitation, the provisions of sections 552 and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code), constitute cash collateral of the Roll-Up Holders within the meaning of Bankruptcy Code section 363(a).  The Residual Holder Agent and, by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Residual Holders, covenant and agree that they will not hereafter assert or cause to be asserted in any Proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code, either as a claim or as a defense, any contrary position as to the character of the Roll-Up Collateral Proceeds except as otherwise provided in Section 8.03 of this Agreement.             (g)  To the extent that the Company, any other Debtor or any other Person makes a payment or payments to the Roll-Up Holders (or the Roll-Up Holder Agent on their behalf), which payment or proceeds or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other Person under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds received, the Roll-Up Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, and any and all Liens created by the Security Documents on the Roll-Up Collateral in respect of the Roll-Up Obligations or part thereof intended to be satisfied, shall be revived and continue in full force and effect, as if such payment or proceeds had not been received by the Roll-Up Holders and, except as otherwise provided in Section 8.03 of this Agreement, any payments or other value received by or on behalf of the Residual Holder Agent or Residual Holders from Roll-Up Collateral or proceeds thereof or from any other source shall be deemed to be received in trust for the benefit of, and shall, upon request by the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent be paid over to the Roll-Up Holder Agent for distribution to the Roll-Up Holders in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents.             (h)  Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the court having jurisdiction over the Proceeding is hereby authorized to preserve the provisions hereof regarding payments and lien priority in approving any plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation without the prior written consent of the Residual Holder Agent or Residual Holders.             (i)  To the extent permitted by law, the Residual Holder Agent, and by their acceptance of this Agreement, the Residual Holders, hereby waive and agree, except as otherwise provided in Section 8.03 of this Agreement, not to assert or to take advantage of (as a defense or otherwise) as against the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent in its capacity as the Security Agent for the Roll-Up Holders:             (i)  any right to require the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf to proceed against the Company, any other Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or to proceed against or exhaust any security held by the Roll-Up Holders or the Security Agent on their behalf at any time or to pursue any other remedy in the Roll-Up Holders' or the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's power under any other agreement before proceeding against the Roll-Up Collateral;             (ii)  demand, presentment for payment, notice of nonpayment, protest, notice of protest and all other notices of any kind, or the lack of thereof, including notice of amendments to the Priority Credit Agreement except to the extent any notice is expressly required to be given hereunder;             (iii)  any right of claim or right to cause a marshaling of the assets of the Company, any Debtor or any other obligor under the Priority Credit Agreement or proration of the Lien of Roll-Up Holders (or Security Agent on their behalf) in the Roll-Up Collateral; or             (iv)  any lack of notice of disposition or of manner of disposition of any Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof.             (j)  In any Proceeding, if the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders, or any of them, has failed to file any claims or proofs of claim in respect of the debt evidenced by the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Residual Obligations (other than this Agreement) prior to the date 30 days prior to the last date to timely file such claim or proof of claim, the Roll-Up Holders and the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent on their behalf are hereby irrevocably authorized and empowered (in their own name or in the name of the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders) but shall have no obligation to file claims and proofs of claim in respect of the secured debt evidenced by the Operative Documents as the same relate to the Residual Obligations (other than this Agreement) and take such other action (including, without limitation, voting the secured debt of the Residual Obligations or enforcing any provision of such other Operative Documents (other than this Agreement)) as Lenders or Agent or Security Agent on their behalf may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights or interests of Roll-Up Holders under this Agreement.             (k)  If any Proceeding is commenced in respect of the Company, any other Debtor or the Roll-Up Collateral or any portion thereof, neither the Residual Holder Agent nor any Residual Holder shall (i) vote their secured claims in favor of any plan of the Company or any other Debtor or any other Person except with the written consent of the Roll-Up Holder Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Roll-Up Holders; and (ii) oppose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing proposed by the Roll-Up Agent at the request or direction of the Required Roll-Up Holders or propose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing opposed by Required Roll-Up Holders.  If requested to do so by the Roll-Up Holder Agent acting upon the direction or request of Required Roll-Up Holders, the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders shall vote in favor of a plan that is substantially equivalent to a chapter 7 liquidation or permits the Security Agent to foreclose the Security Documents.             (l)  Upon the occurrence of any Proceeding, any payment or distribution of any kind (whether in cash, cash equivalents, securities or other property) which otherwise would be payable or deliverable upon or with respect to the Residual Obligations, including, without limitation, any amount or distribution on account of a Residual Obligations Deficiency, but excluding any amount received on account of the Excluded Collateral or the NEG Guarantee, which is received by the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder will be paid or delivered directly to the Roll-Up Holder Agent for application to (in the case of cash or cash equivalents) or as collateral for (in the case of non-cash Property or securities which non-cash Property or securities are referred to as "Roll-Up Turnover Property") the payment of the Roll-Up Obligations until the Roll-Up Holder Agent has received, for application to the Roll-Up Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the full amount of the Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency).  If any such payment or distribution is received by the Residual Holder Agent or any Residual Holder before the Roll-Up Holder Agent has received, for application to the Roll-Up Obligations, an amount in cash or cash equivalents equal to the Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency), then the Residual Holder Agent and such Residual Holders will be deemed to have received the same in trust for the Roll-Up Holders, and will immediately remit such payment or distribution to the Roll-Up Holder Agent for distribution to the Roll-Up Holders in accordance with the provisions of the Operative Documents to the extent that the same relate to the Roll-Up Obligations.  Upon receipt by the Roll-Up Holder Agent of cash or cash equivalents in an amount equal to the Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency) for application to the Roll-Up Obligations, the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders shall be entitled to receive any payments to which they are otherwise entitled.             (m)  To the extent the payments or distributions described in clause (l) above (i) are cash or cash equivalents, the amount thereof shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency), or (ii) are Roll-Up Turnover Property, the amount of cash or cash equivalents realized by the Roll-Up Holders from disposition or other realization of such Roll-Up Turnover Property shall be applied to reduce the outstanding Roll-Up Obligations (including the amount of any Roll-Up Obligation Deficiency).  If the Roll-Up Holders elect to dispose of any Roll-Up Turnover Property, at any time after receipt of Roll-Up Turnover Property, the Roll-Up Holders (or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf) may exercise in respect of the Roll-Up Turnover Property, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for in this Agreement or otherwise available to them, all the rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the New York UCC (whether or not the New York UCC applies to the affected Roll-Up Turnover Property), and the Roll-Up Holders may also in their sole discretion, without notice except as specified below, sell the Roll-Up Turnover Property or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange or broker's board or at any of the Roll-Up Holder Agent's or the Security Agent's offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, at such time or times and at such price or prices and upon such other terms as the Roll-Up Holders may deem commercially reasonable, irrespective of the impact of any such sales on the market price of the Roll-Up Turnover Property.  Any Roll-Up Holder may be the purchaser of any or all of the Roll-Up Turnover Property at any such sale.  Each purchaser at any such sale shall hold the property sold absolutely free from any claim or right on the part of the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders, and the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders hereby waive (to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law) all rights of redemption, stay and/or appraisal which it now has or may at any time in the future have under any rule of law or statute now existing or hereafter enacted.  The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) agree that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, ten days' notice to the Residual Holder Agent of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification.  The Roll-Up Holders shall not be obligated to make any sale of Roll-Up Turnover Property regardless of notice of sale having been given.  The Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so adjourned.  The Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders (by their acceptance of this Agreement) hereby waive any claims against the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent and the Security Agent arising by reason of the fact that the price at which any Roll-Up Turnover Property may have been sold at such a private sale was less than the price which might have been obtained at a public sale, even if the Roll-Up Holders or the Roll-Up Holder Agent or the Security Agent on their behalf accept the first offer received and do not offer such Roll-Up Turnover Property to more than one offeree.  If the proceeds of any sale or other disposition of the Roll-Up Turnover Property are sufficient to pay the entire amount of the Roll-Up Obligations (including the Roll-Up Deficiency) in full in cash or cash equivalents, the Roll-Up Holder Agent shall promptly remit to the Residual Holder Agent the amount of any excess proceeds, less the reasonable fees, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent in conducting such sales and collecting the proceeds thereof for distribution to the Roll-Up Holders.  Upon payment of the Roll-Up Obligations in full in cash or cash equivalents, Roll-Up Holder Agent shall promptly remit to the Residual Holder Agent any excess proceeds. To the extent any of the Roll-Up Turnover Property constitutes securities for which registration or other qualification is required pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or other Governmental Authorities), then to the extent required by Roll-Up Holders, the Roll-Up Holder Agent or Security Agent on their behalf, the Residual Holder Agent and Residual Holders shall cooperate with Roll-Up Holders in good faith to facilitate such registration or satisfaction of other qualifications requirements.             (n)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any of the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.02, none of the rights of the Tranche B Lenders, whether as Roll-Up Holders or as Residual Holders, as set forth in Section 8.03 of this Agreement shall be affected, limited or prejudiced by any provision of this Section 11.02 in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents and none of the Tranche B Lenders, whether as Roll-Up Holders or as Residual Holders, or any agent therefor, shall be restricted or prevented from asserting any such right in any manner or from taking any steps to protect, preserve and enforce such rights under Section 8.03 of this Agreement to the full extent permitted by law and in accordance with the terms of the Operative Documents and any waiver, agreement or consent of the Tranche B Lenders, whether as Roll-Up Holders or as Residual Holders, contained in this Section 11.02 shall, in each case, be deemed to have been qualified by this Section 11.02(n).             11.03   Amendments to Operative Documents.  Notwithstanding any provision contained herein or in the other Operative Documents, the Administrative Agent and, by their acceptance of this Agreement, each Primed Creditor hereby agrees that so long as any of the Priority Obligations remain outstanding or any Priority Commitments remain in effect, without the prior written consent of the Priority Agent (acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders), the Primed Creditors shall not waive or agree with the Company, any other Debtor or any other party to an Operative Document to amend, modify or supplement any of the provisions of any Operative Documents if the effect of such waiver, amendment, modification or supplement, together with all other waivers, amendments, modifications or supplements theretofore made, is (a) to confer any additional rights on the Primed Creditors or the Administrative Agent which is adverse in any material respect to the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent, (b) to otherwise adversely affect the rights or remedies of the Priority Lenders or the Priority Agent or (c) to adversely affect the ability of the Company, any other Debtor or any other party to an Operative Document to perform its obligations under, with respect to, or otherwise directly or indirectly affecting, the Priority Credit Agreement or any other Operative Document to the extent that the same relates to the Priority Obligations.             11.04   Enforcement; Forbearance; Reservation of Rights.             (a)  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11.04), until all obligations arising in connection with the Priority Credit Facility have been repaid or prepaid in full and all Priority Commitments have been terminated: (i) each Creditor (other than the Priority Lenders) hereby agrees to forbear on all Defaults and Events of Default in existence as of the Effective Date and as may arise thereafter under the Participation Agreement unless and until the Required Priority Lenders elect to take enforcement action by delivering a Notice of Action to the Security Agent or otherwise; (ii) no Creditor (other than the Priority Lenders) shall have any right to take, or to direct the Security Agent to take, any action in respect of the Collateral (including the issuance of a Notice of Action) unless the Required Priority Lenders have consented to the taking of such action; and (iii) subject to Section 11.12 of this Agreement, the Required Priority Lenders shall have the exclusive right to direct the Security Agent to take action (without regard to the forbearance set out above) in respect of the Collateral during any Enforcement Period (as defined in the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement) and the Debtors hereby acknowledge that an Event of Default Period and Enforcement Period are continuing from the date hereof.             (b)  Subject to Section 11.04(a) of this Agreement and the other intercreditor provisions set out in this Agreement, the Administrative Agent and each of the other Creditors, expressly reserves any and all of their rights and remedies relating to any Default or Event of Default existing as of the date hereof (whether known or unknown) or arising after the date hereof, including under the Participation Agreement and other Operative Documents and waives none of such rights by executing this Agreement.  The failure to exercise or any delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Creditor, any right, remedy, power or privilege under the Operative Documents with respect to the Defaults and/or Events of Default referred to in the preceding sentence shall not be deemed, or operate as, a waiver thereof and all such rights and remedies are hereby reserved (subject to the intercreditor provisions in Section 11.04(a) of this Agreement and the other intercreditor provisions set out in this Agreement).             11.05   Priority Credit Agreement; Authorization.             (a)  Each party hereto hereby consents and agrees to the execution of (i) this Agreement by the other parties hereto and (ii) the Priority Credit Agreement (substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto) by the Company, the Owner, the Priority L/C Issuer, each Priority Lender party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent.             (b)  Each party hereto hereby agrees that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11.05), until the date on which (i) the Priority Loans and the Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations have been repaid or prepaid in full and (ii) the Priority L/Cs and Priority Commitments have been cash collateralized in full, upon the written instructions of the Required Priority Lenders, the Trustee shall take or refrain from taking such action or actions as may be specified in such instructions.             (c)  The Creditors hereby authorize and direct the Trustee, the Trust Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent to execute, deliver and perform their respective obligations, if any, under this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement.             (d)  The Creditors hereby agree that with respect to matters requiring the Independent Engineer to provide advice or otherwise assist the Priority Agent in its administration of the Priority Credit Agreement that they shall cause the Independent Engineer to provide such advice or assistance in the manner and in accordance with the terms under which it currently provides advice and assistance to the Administrative Agent under the Participation Agreement.             11.06   DIP Facility.             (a)  Those Creditors (the "Non-Participating Creditors") who elect not to participate in a debtor-in-possession financing facility (a "DIP Facility") hereby authorize the execution of a DIP facility agreement by those Persons who are parties to this Agreement and that elect to participate therein (the "DIP Lenders") in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B (the "Proposed DIP Facility Agreement"), or, if not in such form, then in such form as is approved by the Court in an interim order or final order (the "Creditor-Provided DIP Facility") so long as the agreement as so approved in an interim order or final order issued in by the Court in such Case is not materially more burdensome when taken as a whole on the rights of the Non-Participating Creditors than the Proposed DIP Facility Agreement.  The Non-Participating Creditors (by their acceptance of this Agreement) and to the extent permitted by law, hereby agree (a) not to oppose or otherwise defend against (and hereby waive any and all rights that they may have to oppose or defend against), directly or indirectly, any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing proposed by the DIP Lenders or (b) propose any provision for adequate protection, use of cash collateral or debtor-in-possession financing opposed by the DIP Lenders.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that a debtor-in-possession financing facility is proposed to or approved by the Court involving lenders other than Persons party to this Agreement, the restrictions on activities by the Creditors to oppose such financing set out in this Section 11.06(a) shall not apply.  Each Priority Lender party to this Agreement shall have the right to participate in a Creditor-Provided DIP Facility in an amount equal to its Priority Commitment Percentage of the total amount of Commitments provided for under such Facility.             (b)  The Creditors hereby (i) authorize and direct the Trustee, the Trust Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent and the Security Agent to execute, deliver and perform their respective obligations, if any, under, or with respect to, the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility; (ii) agree (in their capacity as Pre-Petition Parties (as defined in the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility)) that, by execution of the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility by the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent, such Creditors accede to, and agree to be bound by, the provisions of Section 8 (or any correlative section) of the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility with respect to any and all Pre-Petition Obligations of such Creditors (and any Liens securing such Pre-Petition Obligations); and (iii) acknowledge and agree to the appointment of the Security Agent as agent of the Superpriority Parties (as defined in the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility) for the purposes set forth in the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility.  The authorizations, directions, acknowledgments and agreements set forth in this Section 11.06(b) relate solely to the Creditor-Provided DIP Facility and are not intended to (and shall not be interpreted so as to) apply directly or indirectly to any other DIP Facility.             11.07   Further Assurances with respect to Recharacterization.  Each of the parties hereto confirms the intention of the parties to characterize the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as set forth in Section 6.1 of the Lease.  In the event of the commencement of a Case, NEG, the Company and the Owner hereby agree to file such motions and take such other actions as may be available to them to give effect to the characterization of the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as set forth in Section 6.1 of the Lease and each Creditor hereby agrees not to oppose any motion by the Company to characterize the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as a secured financing transaction that preserves all rights of the Creditors in, to and under all Collateral.             11.08   No Bankruptcy Proceedings, Etc.  Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees (or shall be deemed to have covenanted and agreed) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the date that the Priority Obligations are paid in full, it will not (without the prior written consent of the Priority Agent (acting on the instruction of the Required Priority Lenders)) institute against the Company or any other Debtor, or join with any other Person in instituting against the Company or any other Debtor, any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, agreement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, or other relief with respect to it or its debts, or seek appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets, or make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors or take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts hereinabove set forth.  It is the express intent of this Section 11.08 that the consent of Required Priority Lenders (and as between all Creditors the consent of the Required Priority Lenders only) shall be required in connection with the acts hereinabove set forth and, in the event of any inconsistency between this Section 11.08 and any other the provisions of any other Operative Document relating to the matters hereinabove set forth, this Section 11.08 shall govern.  The provisions of this Section 11.08 shall survive the termination of the Operative Documents.  Nothing contained herein shall preclude participation by any the parties hereto in the assertion or defense of its claims in any such proceeding involving the Company or any Debtor.             11.09   Further Agreements of NEG.             (a)  If required by the Administrative Agent, NEG shall provide written reaffirmation of NEG's agreement to continue to manage the construction of the Project (in cooperation with the Company) until requested otherwise by the Administrative Agent, and if requested otherwise, to cooperate in a transition to a third party management company.             (b)  To the extent requested by the Administrative Agent, NEG agrees that it shall cooperate in a transition from PGET to third party power purchasers and fuel suppliers;             11.10   Further Acknowledgment by the Company.  The Company hereby acknowledges that:            (a)  it has been advised by counsel in the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement;             (b)  neither the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent nor any Lender or Priority Lender has any fiduciary relationship with or duty to the Company arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the Priority Credit Agreement or any of the other Operative Documents, and the relationship between the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Lenders and the Priority Lenders, on one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, in connection herewith or therewith is solely that of debtor and creditor; and             (c)  no joint venture is created hereby or by the Priority Credit Agreement or the other Operative Documents or otherwise exists by virtue of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Priority Credit Agreement among the Lenders and Priority Lenders or among the Company and the Lenders and Priority Lenders.             11.11   Accession.             (a)  The Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent agree to be bound by, and to benefit from, the Participation Agreement as if a party thereto.  Each other party to the Participation Agreement hereby consents and agrees to the accession by the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent to the Participation Agreement.             (b)  The Priority Agent, as agent for and on behalf of the Priority Lenders, agrees to be bound by, and to benefit from, the Security Deposit Agreement as if a party thereto.  Each other party to the Security Deposit Agreement hereby consents and agrees to the accession by the Priority Agent, on behalf of the Priority Lenders, to the Security Deposit Agreement.             (c)  The Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent (i) agree to be bound by, and to benefit from, the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement as if a party thereto and (ii) irrevocably designate and appoint Citibank, N.A. as the Security Agent under the Transaction Documents and authorize Citibank, N.A., in the capacity of Security Agent, to take such action on their behalf in accordance with the provisions of the Transaction Documents.  By its signature below, Citibank, N.A. accepts such appointment.  Each other party to the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement hereby consents and agrees to the accession by the Priority Lenders and the Priority Agent to the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement.             11.12   Action by Priority Lenders.             (a)  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11.12), each Creditor hereby agrees that unless and until the Priority Loans have been repaid in full and the Priority Commitments have terminated (i) the 75% Priority Lenders may or, with the consent of the 75% Priority Lenders, the Security Agent or the Priority Agent may initiate an auction process or otherwise solicit bids for the purchase of all or any part of the Collateral or equity in the Project or the Company held by the Creditors or otherwise agree to or accept a consensual transfer of the Project (through deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise) in accordance with a process approved by or otherwise on terms acceptable to the 75% Priority Lenders, (ii) the 75% Priority Lenders may or, with the consent of the 75% Priority Lenders, the Security Agent or the Priority Agent may sell or otherwise transfer all or any part of the Collateral in connection with such auction or other sale process or otherwise accept any bids (whether solicited or unsolicited) for purchase of any Collateral or equity in the Project or otherwise agree to or accept a consensual transfer of the Project (through deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise) and undertake such transactions as may be necessary to consummate such sale or other transfer and (iii) other than the consent of the 75% Priority Lenders referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above, no other consent or approval of the Creditors is required for any action provided for, or referred to, in this Section 11.12(a).             (b)  In connection with any proposed restructuring, adjustment, compromise or other action addressing of the liabilities of NEG whether or not in connection with any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, agreement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition, or other relief with respect to it or its debts (an "NEG Restructuring"), in addition to any consent from any Creditor or class thereof required under the terms of the Operative Documents as in effect on the Effective Date (subject to the rights granted to the Super-Majority Priority Lenders under Section 11.12(a) of this Agreement with respect to matters covered thereby), the consent of the Super-Majority Priority Lenders shall be required in connection with any release, modification or other adjustment of any claims (howsoever described) against NEG (whether under the NEG Guarantee or otherwise) or any amendments, modifications, supplements or waivers with respect to any of the Operative Documents proposed or requested in connection with any such NEG Restructuring; provided that, notwithstanding any provision in any Operative Document, no "Participant" (as such term is defined in the Tranche A Loan Agreement and Tranche B Loan Agreement) shall have or be granted by any Creditor any consent rights with respect to any transactions undertaken in connection with an NEG Restructuring.             11.13   Structural Guaranty.  By their execution of this Agreement and notwithstanding any provision herein or in the other Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 11.13), the Beneficiaries (as such term is defined in the Structural Guaranty) hereby make demand on the Company for payment under the Structural Guaranty in an amount equal to the full amount of the Guaranteed Obligations (as such term is defined in the Structural Guaranty) due and payable through the Effective Date after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 13 of this Agreement (such amount, the "Structural Guaranty Demand Amount").  The Company hereby acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding any provision of the Structural Guaranty to the contrary:             (a)  the demand made by the Beneficiaries hereunder is a valid and effective demand under the Structural Guaranty;             (b)  the Structural Guaranty Demand Amount is due from it on and as of the Effective Date;             (c)  it does not have any defenses, counterclaims, offsets, cross-complaints, claims or demands of any kind or nature whatsoever that can be asserted to reduce or eliminate all or any part of liability of the Company to pay the Beneficiaries the Structural Guaranty Demand Amount; and             (d)  nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent the Beneficiaries from making further demands under the Structural Guaranty.             11.14   NEG Guarantee.  By their execution of this Agreement, the Tranche A Lenders constituting Required Tranche A Lenders hereby direct the Security Agent pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement to draw on the NEG Guarantee by delivery of a Payment Demand (as defined in Section 2.1 of the NEG Guarantee) thereunder.  The Security Agent hereby demands payment on the NEG Guarantee pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the NEG Guarantee in an amount equal to the full amount of the Guaranteed Obligations (as such term is defined in the NEG Guarantee) due and payable through the Effective Date after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 13 of this Agreement (such amount, the "NEG Demand Amount").  NEG hereby acknowledges and agrees that, notwithstanding any provision of the NEG Guarantee to the contrary:             (a)  the demand made by the Security Agent pursuant to this Section 11.14 is a valid and effective Payment Demand under the NEG Guarantee;             (b)  the lesser of the NEG Demand Amount and the Maximum Guarantee Amount (as defined in the NEG Guarantee) in effect on the Effective Date is due from it on the Effective Date pursuant to the terms of the NEG Guarantee;             (c)  it does not have any defenses, counterclaims, offsets, cross-complaints, claims or demands of any kind or nature whatsoever that can be asserted to reduce or eliminate all or any part of liability of NEG to pay to the Security Agent for the benefit of the Creditors entitled thereto the amount determined pursuant to clause (b) above; and             (d)  nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent the Security Agent from making further demands under the NEG Guarantee.             11.15   Reservation of Lease Rights by Owner.  The Owner hereby expressly reserves any and all of its rights and remedies under the Lease relating to (a) any Default or Event of Default existing as of the date hereof (whether known or unknown) or arising after the date hereof and (b) any failure by the Company to pay Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent thereunder when due and waives none of such rights by executing this Agreement.  The failure to exercise or any delay in exercising, on the part of the Owner, any right, remedy, power or privilege under the Lease with respect to the Defaults and/or Events of Default referred to in the preceding sentence shall not be deemed, or operate as, a waiver thereof and all such rights and remedies are hereby reserved.             11.16   Working Capital L/C.             (a)  On the Effective Date, the Company shall be obligated to pay or provide Cover (the "Cover Obligation") for the Working Capital L/C (No. NY-03439-30026406) through deposit into the Working Capital L/C Account of an amount equal to the total aggregate undrawn face amount of such Working Capital L/C plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon.             (b)  In the event that, at any time on or after the Effective Date, a draw is made on the Working Capital L/C, the Working Capital Lenders hereby acknowledge and confirm their unconditional and absolute obligation to purchase from the Working Capital L/C Issuer their ratable participation in the Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation arising as a result thereof.  Such Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation will be treated as a Residual Loan hereunder unless the applicable Working Capital Lender is then permitted or otherwise becomes permitted under Section 10.01 of this Agreement to designate such Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation as a Roll-Up Loan and elects to so designate such Working Capital L/C Reimbursement Obligation.             Section 12.  Interest on Settlement Amounts; Roll-Up Loans; Residual Loans.             (a)  The Company and each Interest Hedge Party hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 12) or other Interest Hedge Contracts to the contrary, the Settlement Amounts shall accrue interest monthly in arrears at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Margin.            (b)  The Company and each Tranche A Interest Hedge Contract Party hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 12) or other Interest Hedge Contracts to the contrary:             (i)  On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche A Settlement Amounts (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to the Tranche A Settlement Amounts) will be payable in accordance with Section 5.2(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.             (ii) From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche A Settlement Amounts from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (iii)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche A Settlement Amounts from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche A Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (c)  The Company and each Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party hereby agree that, notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 12) or other Interest Hedge Contracts to the contrary:             (i)  On the Effective Date, accrued but unpaid interest on existing Tranche B Settlement Amounts (and all other amounts due and owing with respect to the Tranche B Settlement Amounts) will be payable in accordance with Section 5.2(c) of the Security Deposit Agreement.             (ii)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche B Settlement Amounts from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Roll-Up Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (iii)  From and after the Effective Date, with respect to Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans, interest will accrue monthly in arrears and shall be payable on each Interest Date; provided that (A) to the extent that the sum of (i) cash flow available under the Revenue Account Waterfall and (ii) interest paid in respect of such Tranche B Settlement Amounts from amounts on deposit in the Interest Reserve Account is insufficient (or cash is otherwise unavailable pursuant to the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement) to pay in full such interest due on such Interest Date, the portion of such interest that is not paid shall, on such Interest Date, be capitalized and added to the principal amount outstanding of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans and (B) each payment of Tranche B Settlement Amounts that constitute Residual Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such payment on such amount.             (d)  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents to the contrary (but subject to this Section 12(d)), from and after the Effective Date, Roll-Up Loans and Residual Loans shall accrue interest monthly in arrears at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Margin.             Section 13.  Certain Agreements and Confirmations Regarding Termination and Acceleration.             13.01   Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement.  The Company, Citibank, N.A., as the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Working Capital Lenders party there, Socit Gnrale, as the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the L/C Banks party thereto, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement is hereby terminated and shall no longer be of any force or effect.             13.02   Interest Hedge Contracts.  Each Interest Hedge Party and the Company confirm that (a) each Interest Hedge Contract has been terminated and (b) such parties have agreed on the payment due by the Company to such Interest Hedge Party on the Effective Date pursuant to the terms of the relevant Interest Hedge Contract.  Each Interest Hedge Party acknowledges that it is bound by the provisions of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement.             13.03   Acceleration of Obligations; Termination of Commitments.  In the event that all Loans have not been accelerated or otherwise have become due in full, the Required Participants hereby instruct and request that the Administrative Agent provide the notice in the succeeding sentence.  Pursuant to Section 7.1 of the Participation Agreement, the Administrative Agent hereby (i) declares (A) the Commitments to be terminated forthwith and (B) the Loans (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing under the Operative Documents to be due and payable forthwith and (ii) provides notice to the Owner and the Company of such declaration; provided that each party hereto agrees that the action afforded by this Section 13.03 shall occur immediately after the events set forth in Section 13.05 of this Agreement.             13.04   Liability of Trustee.  Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that the Trust Company is (except as otherwise expressly provided herein or therein) entering into this Agreement and the other Operative Documents to which it is a party (other than the Trust Agreement), solely in its capacity as trustee under the Trust Agreement and not in its individual capacity, and that the Trust Company shall not be liable or accountable under any circumstances whatsoever in its individual capacity for or on account of any statements, representations, warranties, covenants or obligations stated to be those of the Trustee, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct and as otherwise expressly provided herein or in the other Operative Documents.  Except as specifically provided in the Trust Agreement and except to the extent that the Trust Company shall have acted in its individual capacity, all Persons having any claim against the Owner or the Trust Company acting in its capacity as Trustee by reason of the transactions contemplated hereby shall look only to the Trust Estate for payment or satisfaction thereof. Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 13.04), (i) the indemnification provisions set forth in the Trust Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and (ii) if the Trustee is unsure of the application of any provision of any Operative Document, the Trustee shall promptly request and rely upon instructions of the Required Priority Lenders and shall have no liability to the extent it fails to act after prompt request for clarification from such Required Priority Lenders and prior to the receipt of instructions from such Required Priority Lenders.             13.05   DSR L/C.             (a)  Each party hereto hereby consents, agrees and instructs (i) the Security Agent, as Beneficiary, to draw on the DSR L/C for the Available Amount (as defined in the DSR L/C) thereunder on the Effective Date and (ii) Socit Gnrale, as DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, to permit such draw for the Available Amount on the Effective Date.  The Security Agent agrees to use the proceeds from such draw on the DSR L/C in accordance with clause (d) below.             (b)  Immediately following such draw on the DSR L/C, each L/C Bank agrees to make an L/C Reimbursement Loan to the Company (in an amount equal to such L/C Bank's Commitment Percentage), with the proceeds of such L/C Reimbursement Loan to be applied to the DSR L/C Reimbursement Obligation of the Company in respect of such draw.             (c)  Immediate following the make of such L/C Reimbursement Loans referred to in clause (b) above, each party to the Company Credit and Reimbursement Agreement hereby agree to terminate the Available Commitments in respect of the L/C Commitments as more fully set forth in Section 13.03 of this Agreement.             (d)  The proceeds of the draw on the DSR L/C referred to in clause (a) above shall be applied by the Security Agent, on the Effective Date, to pay on a pro rata basis (i) interest on the Tranche B Loans which is then due and payable and (ii) interest on and outstanding principal of the Tranche B Settlement Amounts which is then due and payable; provided that (i) with respect to payments to be made to a Tranche B Lender, payments shall be made ratably to each Tranche B Lender on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Loans held by such Tranche B Lender and (ii) with respect to payments to be made to a Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party, payments shall be made (x) ratably to each Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of Tranche B Settlement Amounts held by such Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party and (y) with respect to such Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party, such payment is to be applied in the following order of priority: first, to pay interest due and payable on such Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party's Tranche B Settlement Amounts; and second, to pay the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Tranche B Interest Hedge Contract Party's Tranche B Settlement Amounts.  All payments shall be made prior to the designation of Tranche B Loans and Tranche B Settlement Amounts as Roll-Up Loans or Residual Loans.           Section 14.  Conditions Precedent.  This Agreement shall become effective on the date (the "Effective Date") on which the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied, or waived, in the sole discretion of the Administrative Agent:             (a)  each of this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto and shall be in full force and effect;             (b)  each of the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent shall have received: (i) a certified copy of the resolutions or minutes or other appropriate documents evidencing the corporate actions of NEG and the Company authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of NEG and the Company, as the case may be, as of the Effective Date, which certificate shall state that such resolutions or minutes or other appropriate documents have not been amended, modified, revoked or rescinded; (ii) an incumbency certificate of each of NEG and the Company regarding the officers thereof authorized to execute and deliver on its behalf this Agreement and the Priority Credit Agreement and any other documents and agreements to be delivered in connection therewith, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of NEG and the Company, as the case may be, as of the Effective Date; and (iii) true and complete copies of the certificate of formation, limited liability agreement and other organizational documents (if any) of NEG and the Company, certified as of the Effective Date as complete and correct copies thereof by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of NEG and the Company, as the case may be;             (c)  each of the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent shall have received an Officer's Certificate of each of the Company and NEG, dated the Effective Date, stating that:  (i) in the case of the Officer's Certificate of the Company, the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5.1 of the Priority Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date; (ii) in the case of the Officer's Certificate of NEG, the representations and warranties set forth in Section III of the NEG Guarantee (other than Section 3.04(d) of the NEG Guarantee) are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date; and (iii) an Officer's Certificate of each of NEG and the Company stating that (x) all conditions precedent required to be fulfilled on the Effective Date have been fulfilled and (y) no Post-Effective Date Default or Post-Effective Date Event of Default has occurred or will occur on the Effective Date;             (d)  each of the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent shall have received such opinions of the Company, the Owner, the Trust Company and NEG as are reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent;             (e)  all fees payable to any Priority Lender, the Priority Agent, the Security Agent or the Administrative Agent (including the fees of any consultant, advisor or legal counsel to any such lender or agent) shall have been paid;             (f)  the Administrative Agent shall have received, in its sole discretion, sufficient information to prepare the Interest Reserve Schedule; and             (g)  the Priority Agent shall have received a Priority Borrowing Notice for funding the Interest Reserve Account Deposit as provided in the last paragraph of Section 4.2 of the Priority Credit Agreement.             Section 15.  Further Representations and Warranties.  To induce the Creditors to enter into this Agreement, each of the Company and the Owner hereby further represents and warrants that:             (i)  as of December 11, 2002, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of (a) Tranche A Loans will be $226,973,684, (b) Tranche B Loans will be $219,226,316, (c) Working Capital Loans will be $9,195,122 and (d) L/C Reimbursement Loans will be $9,260,539;             (ii)  as of December 11, 2002, the aggregate undrawn face amount of (a) Working Capital L/Cs will be $4,000,000, (b) DSR L/Cs will be $0 and (c) RCE L/Cs will be $0; and             (iii)  as of and on the date hereof, the obligations of the Owner under the Tranche A Loan Agreement, the Tranche B Loan Agreement and other Operative Documents and the Company under the Structural Guaranty and other Operative Documents to repay the Loans and pay the other Secured Obligations, together with all interest, fees, expenses, indemnities and other amounts accrued thereon, is absolute and unconditional, and there exists no right of set off or recoupment, counterclaim or defense of any nature whatsoever to payment of the Secured Obligations.           Section 16.  Miscellaneous.             16.01  Notices.  All notices, requests, demands or other communications given to the Company, the Owner, the Security Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Creditor shall be given in writing (including telex or facsimile transmission) and shall be deemed to have been duly given when personally delivered or when duly deposited in the mails, registered or certified mail postage prepaid, or when transmitted by telex or facsimile transmission, addressed (i) if to the Company, the Owner, the Security Agent, the Administrative Agent or the Priority Agent, to such party at its address specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement or any other address which such party shall have specified as its address for the purpose of communications hereunder, by notice given in accordance with this subsection to the party sending such communication or (ii) if to any Creditor, to it at its address as provided by such Creditor, including the addresses specified in the Participation Agreement, as the case may be; provided that any notice, request or demand to the Security Agent shall not be effective until received by the Security Agent at the office designated by it pursuant to this subsection.             16.02  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.             16.03  Amendments.  Any provision of this Agreement (other than Sections 11.01 through 11.08 and Sections 11.11 through 11.16 of this Agreement) may be amended, modified or supplemented only by an instrument in writing signed by each party hereto (other than NEG).  Sections 11.01 through 11.08 and Sections 11.11 through 11.16 of this Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented only by an instrument in writing signed by the Creditors (other than the Trust Company).             16.04  Headings.  The headings of the various Sections of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not modify, define, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.             16.05  GOVERNING LAW.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.             16.06  Severability.  Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.           16.07  Further Assurances.  The parties hereto shall promptly cause to be taken, executed, acknowledged or delivered, at the sole expense of the Company, all such further acts, conveyances, documents and assurances as the other parties may from time to time reasonably request in order to carry out and effectuate the intent and purposes of this Agreement, the other Operative Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (including, without limitation, the preparation, execution and filing of any and all Uniform Commercial Code financing statements and other filings or registrations which the parties hereto may from time to time request to be filed or effected).  The Company, at its own expense, shall take such action as may be reasonably requested in order to maintain and protect all security interests provided for hereunder or under any other Operative Document.             16.08  Successors and Assigns.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns             16.09  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of any Creditor, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under the other Operative Documents shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.             16.10  Conflicts.  In case of any conflict or inconsistency between this Agreement and any other Operative Document (other than the Priority Credit Agreement), this Agreement shall control.             16.11  Ratification.  The Company, the Owner, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Lenders and the Interest Hedge Parties hereby ratify and confirm the following prior amendments and waivers to the Operative Documents:             (i)  the Omnibus Restructuring Agreement (Lake Road), dated as of April 6, 2001; and             (ii)  the Second Amendment (Lake Road), dated as of June 5, 2002;             16.12  RELEASE OF CLAIMS.  EACH OF NEG, THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT DOES NOT HAVE ANY DEFENSES, COUNTERCLAIMS, OFFSETS, CROSS-COMPLAINTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS OF ANY KIND OR NATURE WHATSOEVER THAT CAN BE ASSERTED TO REDUCE OR ELIMINATE ALL OR ANY PART OF LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER TO REPAY THE LENDERS OR THE PRIORITY LENDERS AS PROVIDED IN THE OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS OR TO SEEK AFFIRMATIVE RELIEF OR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE FROM THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE PRIORITY AGENT OR ANY OTHER CREDITOR.  EACH OF NEG, THE COMPANY AND THE OWNER HEREBY VOLUNTARILY AND KNOWINGLY RELEASES AND FOREVER DISCHARGES THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE PRIORITY AGENT AND THE OTHER CREDITORS, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S, THE PRIORITY AGENT'S AND EACH OTHER CREDITOR'S PREDECESSORS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, FROM ALL POSSIBLE CLAIMS, DEMANDS, ACTIONS, CAUSES OF ACTION, DAMAGES, COSTS, OR EXPENSES, AND LIABILITIES WHATSOEVER, KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, ANTICIPATED OR UNANTICIPATED, SUSPECTED OR UNSUSPECTED, FIXED, CONTINGENT, OR CONDITIONAL, AT LAW OR IN EQUITY, ORIGINATING IN WHOLE OR IN PART ON OR BEFORE THE DATE THIS AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED, WHICH ANY OF NEG, THE COMPANY OR THE OWNER MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE PRIORITY AGENT OR ANY OTHER CREDITOR, AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S, THE PRIORITY AGENT'S OR ANY OTHER CREDITOR'S PREDECESSORS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, IF ANY, IN THEIR CAPACITIES AS SUCH, AND IRRESPECTIVE OF WHETHER ANY SUCH CLAIMS ARISE OUT OF CONTRACT, TORT, VIOLATION OF LAW OR REGULATIONS, OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS AND REMEDIES UNDER THE OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS, AND NEGOTIATION AND EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT.             16.13  Lease.  Notwithstanding any provision in the Operative Documents (but subject to this Section 16.13), each party hereto hereby agrees that, with respect to the Lease, none of the Priority Lenders, the Priority L/C Issuer or the Priority Agent shall have any responsibility or liability to the Company or any other Person with respect to any of the following:  (x) any liability, loss or damage caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by the Project or any part thereof or by any inadequacy thereof or deficiency or defect therein or by any other circumstances in connection therewith; (y) the use, operation or performance of the Project or any part thereof or any risks relating thereto; or (z) the delivery, operation, servicing, maintenance, repair, improvement, replacement or decommissioning of the Project or any part thereof.             16.14  Survival.  All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Company and the Owner herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Priority Loans and issuance of any Priority L/C, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Priority Agent, the Priority L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Post-Effective Default, Post-Effective Event of Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Priority Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Priority L/C is outstanding and so long as the Priority Commitments have not expired or terminated.  The provisions of Section 11 shall survive and remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.               IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.     [signature pages to follow]

 
 
EXHIBITS
SCHEDULES
PRIORITY CREDIT AND REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of December 4, 2002 (this ""), among LAKE ROAD GENERATING COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, as borrower (the ""), LAKE ROAD TRUST LTD., a Delaware statutory trust as co-obligor with the Company (the "") acting by and through the Wilmington Trust Company, not in its individual capacity, but solely as Trustee under the Trust Agreement, WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, in its individual capacity (in such capacity, the "") and as trustee of the Owner (in such capacity, the ""), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to this Agreement as lenders of the Priority Loans referred to herein and participants in the Priority L/Cs referred to herein (in such capacity, the ""), CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as the issuer of the Priority L/Cs referred to herein (in such capacity, the "
Agreement
Company
Owner
Trust Company
Trustee
Priority Lenders
Priority L/C Issuer"), CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as agent for the Priority Lenders hereunder (in such capacity and together with its successors in such capacity, the "") and CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as agent for the Lenders under the Operative Documents (in such capacity, the "").
Priority Agent
Administrative Agent
, pursuant to the Participation Agreement dated as of August 28, 1999 among the Company, the Trust Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Lenders party thereto, the Security Agent and the Administrative Agent (as amended, the ""), and the other Operative Documents, the Company, the Owner and the other parties thereto agreed, among other things, to the terms and conditions of the construction and lease financing of the Project;
WHEREAS
Participation Agreement
the Company and the Owner have defaulted on various payment obligations owing to the Creditors pursuant to the Operative Documents;
WHEREAS,
the Company, the Owner, the Trust Company, the Trustee and the Creditors, as of the date hereof, have entered into the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement pursuant to which the parties have agreed to certain amendments to, and modifications of, the Operative Documents to induce certain of the Creditors to extend credit to the Company and the Owner for general working capital purposes;
WHEREAS,
, the Priority Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent have agreed to enter into this Agreement to provide for additional funding to pay general working capital needs, certain debt service and to finance draws on Priority L/Cs upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
WHEREAS
, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ACCORDINGLY
In addition, as used herein the following terms shall have the following meanings:
"" means any contract or agreement relating to the ownership, leasing, occupation, construction, testing, repair, operation, maintenance and use of the Project (other than Non-Material Project Contracts) entered into by the Company subsequent to the Effective Date.
Additional Project Contract
"" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.
Administrative Agent
"" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.
Agreement
"" means a contract with PGET or a third party energy manager acceptable to the Required Priority Lenders in form and substance satisfactory to the Required Priority Lenders whereby PGET or such third party energy manager and the Company agree that PGET or such third party energy manager will act as agent for the Company in connection with: (A) the marketing of the Company's electrical capacity, output and ancillary services and (B) the procurement of gas for use in the Project.
Approved Replacement Contract
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.6(a) of this Agreement.
Assignment and Acceptance
"" means as to any Priority Lender at any time an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the amount of such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Priority Loans made by such Priority Lender which are then outstanding (ii) the product of such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage and the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Priority L/Cs outstanding at such time.
Available Priority Commitment
over
plus
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to close.
Business Day
"" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.
Company
"" has the meaning given to that term in the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.
Effective Date
"" means (a) the 10 calendar day of each calendar month (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) and (b) the Priority Maturity Date; that the initial Interest Date shall occur on December 11, 2002.
Interest Date
th
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.12(a) of this Agreement.
Non-Excluded Taxes
"" shall mean any contracts or agreements entered into by the Company in the ordinary course of business in connection with the ownership, leasing, occupation, construction, testing, repair, operation, maintenance and use of the Project under which the Company shall have obligations not in excess of $50,000 in total over the term of such contract.
Non-Material Project Contracts
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.12(b) of this Agreement.
Non-US Lender
"" has the meaning set forth in the caption hereto.
Owner
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of this Agreement.
Participant
"" has the meaning set forth in the first recital hereto.
Participation Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1 of this Agreement.
Petition Date
"" means 5.50%.
PL Applicable Margin
"" means any condition or event which, with notice or lapse of time, determination of materiality or any combination of the foregoing, would become a Post-Effective Event of Default.
Post-Effective Default
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1 of this Agreement.
Post-Effective Event of Default
"" or "" means, for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Priority Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by the Priority Agent in connection with extensions of credit to debtors); each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change is publicly announced as effective. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1% of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with memb ers of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Priority Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized national standing selected by it. If for any reason the Priority Agent shall have determined that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Priority Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms thereof, the Priority ABR shall be determined without regard to clause (b) of the first sentence of this definition, as appropriate, until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Priority ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such chan ge in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
Priority ABR
Priority Alternate Base Rate
Prime Rate
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means Priority Loans the rate of interest applicable to which is based upon the ABR.
Priority ABR Loans
"" has the meaning given to that term in the caption hereto.
Priority Agent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement.
Priority Borrowing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement.
Priority Borrowing Notice
"" means 6.50% per annum.
Priority Commission Rate
"" means, on each Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date, a fee computed at 1.00% per annum for the Priority Commitments (calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for actual days elapsed) on the average daily amount of the Available Priority Commitments during the related Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period.
Priority Commitment Fee
"" means as to any Priority Lender, the obligation of such Priority Lender to make Priority Loans to the Company and the Owner and/or participate in(or, in the case of the Priority L/C Issuer, retain an interest in) any Priority L/C under this Agreement in an aggregate principal and/or face amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Priority Lender's name on Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The initial aggregate amount of the Priority Commitments of all Priority Lenders is $37,000,000.
Priority Commitment
"" means, with respect to any Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date during the Priority Commitment Period, each monthly period ending on an Interest Date; that (a) the initial Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period shall be the period from and including the Effective Date to and including December 10, 2002, and (b) the last Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period shall be the period from and including the Interest Date immediately preceding the last day of the Priority Commitment Period to and including the last day of the Priority Commitment Period.
Priority Commitment Fee Calculation Period
provided
"" means each Interest Date and the last day of the Priority Commitment Period.
Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date
"" means, as to any Priority Lender at any time, the percentage which the Priority Commitment of such Priority Lender then constitutes of the aggregate Priority Commitments of all Priority Lenders (or, at any time after such Priority Commitments shall have expired or terminated, the percentage which the aggregate principal amount of such Priority Lender's Priority Loans which are then outstanding constitutes of the aggregate principal amount of all Priority Loans which are then outstanding).
Priority Commitment Percentage
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but not including the earlier to occur of: (a) the Priority Expiration Date and (b) the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated.
Priority Commitment Period
"" means date four calendar days prior to the Priority Maturity Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day).
Priority Expiration Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 of this Agreement.
Priority L/C
"" means $20,000,000.
Priority L/C Commitment
"" means, for each Priority Lender, such Priority Lender's participation interest (or, in the case of the Priority L/C Issuer, such Priority L/C Issuer's retained interest) in the Priority L/C Issuer's liability under Priority L/Cs and such Priority Lender's rights and interests in Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations and fees, interest and other amounts payable in respect of Priority L/Cs and Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations.
Priority L/C Interest
"" has the meaning set forth in the caption of this Agreement.
Priority L/C Issuer
"" means the obligation of the Company and the Owner, on a joint and several basis, to reimburse the Priority L/C Issuer pursuant to Section 3.5(a) of this Agreement for amounts drawn on Priority L/Cs.
Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation
"" has the meaning set forth in the caption to this Agreement.
Priority Lenders
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 of this Agreement.
Priority Loans
"" means the date falling 364 days after the Effective Date.
Priority Maturity Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b) of this Agreement.
Priority Note
"" means, at any time, all indebtedness, financial liabilities and obligations of the Company and the Owner, of whatsoever nature and howsoever evidenced (including, but not limited to, principal, interest, fees, reimbursement obligations, penalties, indemnities and legal and other expenses, whether due after acceleration or otherwise) to the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders and the Priority L/C Issuer under or pursuant to this Agreement.
Priority Obligations
"" means (a) with respect to any Priority Loan, the rate that would otherwise be applicable thereto plus 2%, and (b) with respect to any other amount, the amount that would be applicable to Priority Loans plus 2%.
Priority Overdue Rate
"" means, for any period, an amount equal to the aggregate of (a) interest due and payable on (i) the Priority Loans and (ii) Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations and (b) Priority Commitment Fees, letter of credit fees with respect to Priority L/Cs and other amounts payable pursuant to Section 3.3 of this Agreement.
Priority Scheduled Debt Service
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.6(a) of this Agreement.
Purchasing Lender
"" shall mean an amount equal to $6,000,000 to be deposited by the Security Agent in the Interest Reserve Account for application in accordance with the terms of the Security Deposit Agreement.
Required Interest Deposit
"" means, at any time, Priority Lenders holding at least in excess of 50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Commitments outstanding at such time (or, in the case of Priority Commitments that have expired or been terminated, the sum of the aggregate principal amount of the Priority Loans made under such Priority Commitments and outstanding at such time).
Required Priority Lenders
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.2 of this Agreement.
Rescission Direction
"" has the meaning given to that term in the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.
Roll-Up Loans
"" means the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement dated as of December 4, 2002, among the Company, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company, each Tranche A Lender, each Tranche B Lender, each Interest Hedge Party, the DSR/RCE L/C Issuer, the Working Capital L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, the Security Agent, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent and NEG.
Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement
"" means that certain Transfer Agreement dated on or about June 21, 2002 among the Company, Bankers Commercial Corporation, Credit Lyonnais Leasing Corp. and ING (U.S.) Capital, LLC.
Transfer Agreement
  The rules of usage set forth in Annex A to the Participation Agreement are hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders.
1.2  
Rules of Usage
.
mutatis mutandis
  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Priority Lender severally agrees to make loans (collectively, the "") to the Company and the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) from time to time during the Priority Commitment Period in an aggregate principal amount at any time not in excess of such Priority Lender's Available Priority Commitment at such time: (a) for the purpose of enabling the Company or the Owner to pay (i) Operating Costs and (ii) Priority Scheduled Debt Service; (b) in accordance with Section 3.5(c) of this Agreement and (c) on the Effective Date, for the purpose of making the Required Interest Deposit. The Company may use the Priority Commitments by borrowing, repaying the Priority Loans in whole or in part, and reborrowing, all in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof. All Priority Loans shall be Priority ABR Loans.
2.1  
Priority Commitments
.
Priority Loans
  The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender the principal of such Priority Lender's Priority Loans outstanding on the Priority Maturity Date in a single installment on the Priority Maturity Date.
2.2  
Priority Maturity Date
.
.  The Company and the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) may borrow under the Priority Commitments during the Priority Commitment Period on any Business Day; that the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) shall have delivered (except as the same is deemed delivered pursuant to Section 3.5(c) of this Agreement) to the Priority Agent an irrevocable Priority Borrowing Notice in accordance with Section 4.2 of this Agreement, specifying (i) the amount to be borrowed and (ii) the requested Priority Borrowing Date. Each borrowing under the Priority Commitments shall be in an amount equal to at least $500,000 (or, if (A) the then aggregate Available Priority Commitments of the Priority Lenders are less than $500,000, (B) the proceeds of such borrowing are to be used to refinance a Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation in an amount less than $500,00 0 or (C) the request is for the issuance of a Priority L/C in a stated amount less than $500,000, such lesser amount). Upon receipt of any such Priority Borrowing Notice from the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement), the Priority Agent shall promptly notify each Priority Lender thereof. Each Priority Lender will make the amount of its pro rata share of each borrowing available to the Priority Agent for the account of the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) at the Priority Agent's offices specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the Priority Borrowing Date requested by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) in immediately available funds to the Priority Agent, and the Priority Agent shall make such amounts available to the Security Agent for application in accordance with the provisions of the Security Deposit Agreement at the office of the Security Agent sp ecified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on such Priority Borrowing Date in immediately available funds to the Security Agent.
2.3  
Procedure for Borrowing Priority Loans
provided
   . The Priority Agent, on behalf of the Company and the Owner, shall maintain the Priority Register relating to Priority Loans pursuant to Section 8.2 of the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement in which shall be recorded (i) the amount of each Priority Loan made hereunder and any Priority Note evidencing such Priority Loan, (ii) the amount of each Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation arising hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Priority Agent hereunder from the Company or the Owner and each Priority Lender's share, if any, thereof.
2.4  
Evidence of Debt
.
Priority Register
(b)   The Company agrees that, upon the request of the Priority Agent after a request by any Priority Lender, the Company will execute and deliver to such Priority Lender a promissory note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, with appropriate insertions as to date and principal amount (each, a "") evidencing the Priority Loans of such Priority Lender.
Notes.
Priority Note
.  The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay in arrears to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender the Priority Commitment Fee applicable to its Priority Commitment on each Priority Commitment Fee Payment Date. Promptly after receipt of payment of any Priority Commitment Fees payable to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof, the Priority Agent shall distribute such payment to the Priority Lenders pro rata according to their respective Priority Commitment Percentages.
2.5  
Commitment Fees
.   The Company and the Owner shall only prepay the Priority Loans in accordance with (i) Section 6.5 of the Participation Agreement (as the same is in effect on and as of the Effective Date (after giving effect to the transactions intended to occur on such date) and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, waiver or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders) as modified by Section 8 of the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement and (ii) Section 5.1 of the Security Deposit Agreement with cash flow available on the Revenue Account Waterfall as required pursuant to such section.
2.6  
Prepayments
(b) Amounts prepaid on account of the Priority Loans may be reborrowed in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof.
.  (a) The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Priority Loan made by such Priority Lender for the period from and including the date such Priority Loan is made to but excluding the date on which such Priority Loan is repaid in full at a rate per annum equal to the Priority ABR the PL Applicable Margin.
2.7  
Interest Rates and Interest Dates
plus
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent for the account of each Priority Lender interest at the applicable Priority Overdue Rate on any principal of any Priority Loan made by such Priority Lender, any Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation held by such Priority Lender and on any other amount payable by the Company or the Owner hereunder (including interest on any Priority Loan or Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation) which shall not be paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by mandatory prepayment or otherwise and as well after as before judgment) for the period from and including the due date thereof to but excluding the date that the same shall be paid in full.
(c) Interest shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Date and on the date on which the Priority Loans are accelerated; provided that (i) interest accruing pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 2.7 shall be payable from time to time on demand (and, in the event demand is not made, on each Interest Date) and (ii) each prepayment of the Priority Loans shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the amount prepaid.
.  (a) Whenever it is calculated on the basis of the Prime Rate, interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed; and, otherwise, interest shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year for the actual days elapsed. Any change in the interest rate on a Priority Loan resulting from a change in the Priority ABR shall become effective as set forth in the definition of Priority ABR based on whether the same is calculated on the basis of the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate. The Priority Agent shall as soon as practicable notify the Company, the Owner and the Priority Lenders of the effective date and the amount of each such change in interest rate.
2.8  
Computation of Interest
(b) Each determination of an interest rate by the Priority Agent pursuant to any provision of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, the Owner and the applicable Priority Lenders in the absence of manifest error. At the request of the Company, the Priority Agent shall deliver a statement showing the quotations used by the Priority Agent in determining any interest pursuant to Section 2.8(a) of this Agreement where the Priority ABR is determined based on the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
.  (a) Each borrowing by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) from the Priority Lenders hereunder and any reduction of the Priority Commitments of the Priority Lenders shall be made pro rata according to the respective Priority Commitment Percentages of the Priority Lenders. Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.6 of this Agreement, each payment (including each prepayment) by the Company or the Owner on account of principal of and interest on the Priority Loans shall be made pro rata according to the respective outstanding principal amounts of the Priority Loans then held by the Priority Lenders.
2.9  
Computation Pro Rata Treatment and Payments
(b) All payments (including prepayments) to be made by the Company and the Owner hereunder, whether on account of principal, interest or otherwise, shall be made without setoff or counterclaim and shall be made prior to 12:00 Noon, New York City time, on the due date therefor to the Priority Agent, for the account of the applicable Priority Lender or the Priority L/C Issuer hereunder, as the case may be, at the Priority Agent's office specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement, in Dollars and in immediately available funds, and the Priority Agent shall make available to each applicable Priority Lender or the Priority L/C Issuer, as the case may be, its pro rata share of each such payment prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time, in immediately available funds. If any payment hereunder becomes due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day. In the case of any extension of any payment of principal pursuant to the preceding t wo sentences, interest thereon shall be payable at the then applicable rate during such extension.
(c) Unless the Priority Agent shall have been notified in writing by any Priority Lender hereunder prior to a borrowing that such Priority Lender will not make its share of such borrowing available to the Priority Agent, the Priority Agent may assume that such Priority Lender is making such amount available to the Priority Agent, and the Priority Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Security Agent a corresponding amount. If such amount is not made available to the Priority Agent by the required time on the Priority Borrowing Date therefor, such Priority Lender shall pay to the Priority Agent, on demand, such amount with interest thereon at a rate equal to the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate for the period until such Priority Lender makes such amount immediately available to the Priority Agent. A certificate of the Priority Agent submitted to any Priority Lender hereunder with respect to any amounts owing under this Section 2.9(c) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. If such Priority Lender's share of such borrowing is not made available to the Priority Agent by such Priority Lender within three (3) Business Days of such Priority Borrowing Date, the Priority Agent shall also be entitled to recover such amount with interest thereon at the rate per annum applicable to Priority Loans hereunder, on demand, from the Company and the Owner as joint and several obligors; , that if the Company or the Owner repays such corresponding amount to the Priority Agent and such Priority Lender subsequently makes available its share of the borrowing to the Priority Agent, the Priority Agent shall promptly make such loan proceeds available to the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement). If such Priority Lender shall repay to the Priority Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Priority Lender's share of such borrowing. Upon receipt of notice from a Priority Lender that it will not make available to the Priority Agent its share of a borrowing or upon any failure of a Priority Lender to fund its portion of any such borrowing, the Priority Agent shall promptly provide the Company and the Owner with notice thereof.
provided
.  (a) If the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by any Priority Lender hereunder with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority made subsequent to the date hereof:
2.10  
Requirements of Law
(i) shall subject any Priority Lender hereunder to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Priority L/C, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Priority Lender in respect thereof (except for Non-Excluded Taxes covered by Section 2.12 of this Agreement and changes in the rate of tax on the overall net income of such Priority Lender) or a franchise tax in lieu of net income taxes;
(ii) shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Priority Lender; or
(iii) shall impose on such Priority Lender any other condition relating to the issuance of any Priority L/C;
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Priority Lender, by an amount which such Priority Lender deems to be material, of issuing or participating in Priority L/Cs or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder in respect thereof, then, in any such case, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally agree to pay to such Priority Lender, on an After-Tax Basis, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such Priority Lender for such increased cost or reduced amount receivable on the next Interest Date (or, if earlier, the next date on which principal is due in respect of such Priority Lender) after the Company receives the notice required pursuant to the next sentence. If any Priority Lender hereunder becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this paragraph, it shall deliver to the Company and the Owner a notice setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of such increased costs or reduced amount receivable and the basis for the determination of such a mount, , that neither the Company nor the Owner shall be obligated to compensate such Priority Lender for the amount of such increased cost or reduced amount receivable incurred with respect to a period of time prior to the date which is 90 days before the date on which such Priority Lender first notifies the Company and the Owner that it intends to claim such compensation or that an event had occurred which will entitled it to such compensation.
provided
(b) If any Priority Lender hereunder shall have determined that any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by such Priority Lender or any corporation controlling such Priority Lender with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority, in each case made subsequent to the date hereof, has the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Priority Lender's or such corporation's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder or under any Priority L/C to a level below that which such Priority Lender or such corporation could have achieved but for such change or compliance (taking into consideration such Priority Lender's or such corporation's policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Priority Lender to be material, then from time to time, after submission by such Priority Lender to the Company and the Owner of a wri tten request (setting forth in reasonable detail the amount being charged by such Priority Lender and the basis for determination of such amount) therefor, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally agree to pay, on an After-Tax Basis, on the next Interest Date (or, if earlier, on the next date on which principal is due in respect of the Priority Loans) after the Company first receives such notice, to such Priority Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Priority Lender for such reduction, except that the Company and the Owner shall only be obligated to compensate such Priority Lender for the amount or amounts incurred with respect to a period of time from and after the date occurring 90 days before the date on which such Priority Lender first notifies the Company and the Owner.
(c) A certificate as to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.10 submitted by such Priority Lender to the Company and the Owner (with a copy to the Priority Agent setting forth in reasonable detail the basis and calculation of such additional amounts) shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. The agreements in this Section 2.10 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Priority Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
.  The Company and the Owner shall jointly and severally indemnify each Priority Lender hereunder against any direct (as opposed to consequential) loss or expense which such Priority Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of default by the Company or the Owner in making any prepayment after the Company or the Owner has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Participation Agreement. A certificate of any Priority Lender hereunder setting forth any amount or amounts (and in reasonable detail, the basis therefor) which such Priority Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 2.11 and evidencing a loss suffered by such Priority Lender of such amount or amounts shall be delivered to the Company and the Owner. The provisions of this Section 2.11 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Priority Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
2.11  
Indemnity
.  (a) All payments made by the Company or the Owner under this Agreement shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any present or future income, stamp or other taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings, now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority, excluding net income taxes and franchise taxes (imposed in lieu of net income taxes) imposed on the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder as a result of a present or former connection between the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforce d, this Agreement) (the provisions of this sentence shall not be deemed to limit any obligation of the Company and the Owner to pay any amount hereunder on an After-Tax Basis). If any such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings ("") are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder, the amounts so payable to the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender hereunder shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to the Priority Agent or such Priority Lender (on an After-Tax Basis) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rates or in the amounts specified in this Agreement; , , that neither the Company nor the Owner shall be required to increase any such amounts payable to any Priority Lender described in paragraph (b) below of this Section 2.12 if such Priority Lender fails to comply with the requirements of such paragraph (b). Whene ver such Non-Excluded Taxes are payable by the Company or the Owner, as promptly as possible thereafter the Company or the Owner shall send to the Priority Agent for its own account or for the account of such Priority Lender, as the case may be, a certified copy of an original official receipt received by the Company or the Owner showing payment thereof. If the Company or the Owner fails to pay any Non-Excluded Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to the Priority Agent the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, the Company and the Owner shall jointly and severally indemnify the Priority Agent and the Priority Lenders hereunder for any incremental taxes, interest or penalties that may become payable by the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder as a result of any such failure. The agreements in this Section 2.12(a) shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Priority Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder. No provisi on of this Section 2.12 shall be interpreted to limit any party's rights for indemnification under any provision of any other Operative Document; that no party shall be entitled to a double recovery with respect to any claim under this Section 2.12.
2.12  
Taxes
Non-Excluded Taxes
provided
however
provided
(b) Each Priority Lender or assignee under Section 10.6 of this Agreement that is not a citizen or resident of the United States of America, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States of America, or any estate or trust that is subject to federal income taxation regardless of the source of its income (a "") shall deliver to the Company and the Priority Agent (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Priority Lender hereunder from which the related participation shall have been purchased) two copies of either IRS Form W-8BEN, or Form W-8ECI, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto, properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from, or a reduced rate of, U.S. federal withholding tax on all payments by the Company or the Owner under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents. Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Lender on or before the date it become s a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of any Participant, on or before the date such Participant purchases the related participation). In addition, each Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Lender. Each Non-U.S. Lender shall promptly notify the Company and the Owner at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate to the Company and the Owner (or any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose).
Non-U.S. Lender
. Each Priority Lender hereunder agrees that if it makes any demand for payment under Section 2.10 or 2.12(a) of this Agreement, or if any applicable Requirement of Law prevents the issuance by it of any Priority L/C it will use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions and so long as such efforts would not be disadvantageous to it, as determined in its sole discretion) to designate a different lending office if the making of such a designation would reduce or obviate the need for the Company or the Owner to make payments under Section 2.10 or 2.12(a) of this Agreement, or would permit the issuance of any Priority L/C in the event any applicable Requirement of Law would o
2.13  
Change of Lending Office
therwise prevent such issuance.
2.14  
Reduction and Termination of Commitments.
(a) The Priority Commitments shall terminate on the last day of the Priority Commitment Period.
(b) Without the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, there shall be no reduction in the Priority Commitment prior to the end of the Priority Commitment Period other than in connection with a Post-Effective Event of Default as provided in Section 7.2 of this Agreement.
.  The Priority Agent shall be paid a fee of $150,000 per annum for performing the duties of the Priority Agent under the Operative Documents. The Company shall pay such fee to the Priority Agent on the Effective Date and on each anniversary thereof. This fee, once paid, shall be non-refundable.
2.15  
Priority Agent Fee
(b) Each Priority L/C shall expire no later than the date that is five (5) Business Days prior to the Priority Expiration Date. At the time of any disbursement made by the Priority L/C Issuer under any Priority L/C, the amount available to be drawn under such Priority L/C shall be reduced by the amount of such disbursement.
(c) The Priority L/C Issuer shall not at any time be obligated to issue any Priority L/C hereunder if such issuance would conflict with, or cause the Priority L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender participating therein to exceed any limits imposed by, any applicable Requirement of Law.
(d) Each Priority L/C shall (i) provide for at least three Business Days from the receipt by the Priority L/C Issuer of a draft demanding payment on such Priority L/C from the beneficiary thereunder until payment is due by the Priority L/C Issuer to the beneficiary thereunder, (ii) be otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Priority L/C Issuer and (iii) be subject to the Uniform Customs and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the law of the State of New York.
.  To request the issuance of a Priority L/C (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Priority L/C), the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) shall hand deliver to the Priority L/C Issuer and the Priority Agent (reasonably in advance of (but, in any event, at least three Business Days prior to) the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a Priority Borrowing Notice (a) (i) requesting the issuance of a Priority L/C or (ii) identifying the Priority L/C to be amended, renewed or extended and (b) specifying (i) the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the date on which such Priority L/C is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (b) of Section 3.1 of this Agreement), (iii) the amount of such Priority L/C, (iv) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and (v) such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Priority L/C. If requested by the Priority L/C Issuer, the Company also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Priority L/C Issuer's standard form in connection with any request for a Priority L/C. The Priority L/C Issuer shall not amend, renew or extend any Priority L/C if, after giving effect to such amendment, renewal or extension: (x) the aggregate undrawn stated amount of all Priority L/Cs outstanding at such time would exceed the Priority L/C Commitment or (y) the aggregate amount of the Available Priority Commitments after giving effect to such amendment, renewal or extension would be less than zero. The Priority L/C Issuer shall furnish a copy of each Priority L/C to the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) promptly following the issuance thereof or any amendment, renewal or extension thereto. The Priority L/C Issuer shall promptly furnish t o the Priority Agent, which shall in turn promptly furnish to the Priority Lenders, notice of the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Priority L/C (including the amount thereof).
3.2  
Procedure for Issuance, Amendment, Renewal or Extension of Priority L/Cs
.  (a) The Company and the Owner jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent, for the account of each Priority Lender, a Priority L/C commission with respect to each Priority L/C, computed for the period from and including the date of issuance of such Priority L/C to the date upon which such Priority L/C expires, at the rate equal to the Priority Commission Rate, calculated on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed, on the product of (i) such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage and (ii) the average daily amount available to be drawn under such Priority L/C during the period for which payment is made, payable monthly in arrears on each Interest Date occurring after the issuance date for such Priority L/C. Such commissions shall be nonrefundable.
3.3  
Fees and Other Charges
(b) The Company and the Owner jointly and severally promise to pay to the Priority Agent, for the account of the Priority L/C Issuer, a fronting fee with respect to each Priority L/C, computed for the period from and including the date of issuance of such Priority L/C to the date upon which such Priority L/C expires, at the rate per annum equal to the product of (i) 0.25% and (ii) the sum of the Priority Commitment Percentages of the Priority Lenders other than the Priority Lender which is the Priority L/C Issuer, on the average daily amount available to be drawn under such Priority L/C during the period for which payment is made, payable monthly in arrears on each Interest Date occurring after the issuance date of such Priority L/C and on the expiration date of such Priority L/C. Such fronting fee shall be non-refundable.
(c) In addition to the foregoing fees, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally promise to pay or reimburse the Priority L/C Issuer on demand for (i) such normal and customary costs and expenses as are incurred or charged by the Priority L/C Issuer in issuing, amending or otherwise administering any Priority L/C and (ii) any taxes, fees, charges or other costs or expenses incurred by the Priority L/C Issuer in connection with effecting payment under any Priority L/C.
(d) The Priority Agent shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, distribute to the Priority L/C Issuer and the Priority Lenders all fees and commissions received by the Priority Agent pursuant to this Section 3.3 as their interests appear.
3.4  
L/C Participations
.
(a) By the issuance of a Priority L/C (or an amendment to a Priority L/C increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Priority L/C Issuer or the Priority Lenders, the Priority L/C Issuer irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each Priority Lender, and, to induce the Priority L/C Issuer to issue Priority L/Cs hereunder, each Priority Lender irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and hereby accepts and purchases from the Priority L/C Issuer, on the terms and conditions hereinafter stated, for such Priority Lender's own account and risk an undivided interest equal to such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage in the Priority L/C Issuer's obligations and rights under each Priority L/C issued hereunder and the amount of each draft paid by the Priority L/C Issuer thereunder. Each Priority Lender unconditionally and irrevocably agrees with the Priority L/C Issuer that, if a draft is paid under any Priority L/C for which the Priority L/C Issuer is no t reimbursed in full by the Company or the Owner pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, such Priority Lender shall pay to the Priority L/C Issuer upon demand by the Priority L/C Issuer at the Priority L/C Issuer's address for notices specified in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement an amount equal to such Priority Lender's Priority Commitment Percentage of such Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation or any part thereof which is not so reimbursed. Each Priority Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Priority L/Cs is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Priority L/C or the occurrence and continuance of a Post-Effective Default or reduction or termination of the Priority Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Any payment made by a Priority Lend er pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Priority L/C Issuer for any draft paid by the Priority L/C Issuer under any Priority L/C (other than the funding of Priority Loans) shall not constitute a Priority Loan and shall not relieve the Company or the Owner of their joint and several obligation to pay the outstanding Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation.
(b) If any amount required to be paid by any Priority Lender to the Priority L/C Issuer pursuant to Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement is paid to the Priority L/C Issuer within three (3) Business Days after the date such payment is due, such Priority Lender shall pay to the Priority L/C Issuer on demand an amount equal to the product of (i) such amount, times (ii) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate during the period from and including the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Priority L/C Issuer, times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of which is 360. If any such amount required to be paid by any Priority Lender pursuant to Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement is not made available to the Priority L/C Issuer by such Priority Lender within three (3) Business Days after the date such payment is due, the Priority L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Priority Lender, on demand, such amount with interest thereon calculated from such due date at the rate per annum applicable to Priority Loans. A certificate of the Priority L/C Issuer submitted to any Priority Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this Section shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
(c) Whenever, at any time after the Priority L/C Issuer has made payment under the Priority L/C and has received from any Priority Lender its pro rata share of such payment in accordance with Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement, the Priority L/C Issuer receives any payment related to such Priority L/C (whether directly from the Company, the Owner, the Priority Agent or otherwise, including proceeds of Collateral applied thereto by the Security Agent), or any payment of interest on account thereof, the Priority L/C Issuer will distribute to such Priority Lender its pro rata share thereof; , r, that in the event that any such payment received by the Priority L/C Issuer shall be required to be returned by the Priority L/C Issuer, such Priority Lender shall return to the Priority L/C Issuer the portion thereof previously distributed by the Priority L/C Issuer to it.
provided
howeve
3.5  
Reimbursement by the Company
.
(a) The Company and the Owner hereby jointly and severally agree to reimburse the Priority L/C Issuer on each date on which the Priority L/C Issuer notifies the Company or, if the Owner is the account party, the Owner of the date and amount of a draft presented under any Priority L/C and paid by the Priority L/C Issuer for the amount of such draft so paid. Each such payment shall be made without set-off or counterclaim to the Priority Agent for the account of the Priority L/C Issuer as provided in Section 2.9(b) of this Agreement in lawful money of the United States and in immediately available funds.
(b) Interest shall be payable on Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations and any and all other amounts remaining unpaid by the Company or the Owner under this Section from the date such amounts become payable until payment in full at the Priority Overdue Rate with respect to Priority Loans.
(c) Each drawing under a Priority L/C shall constitute a request by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) for a borrowing pursuant to Section 2.1 of this Agreement of Priority Loans in the amount of such drawing. The Priority Borrowing Date with respect to such borrowing shall be the date of payment by the Priority L/C Issuer of such drawing. If the conditions to such borrowing are met or waived in accordance with Section 4.2 of this Agreement, the proceeds of such borrowing shall be applied to finance the Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligation as and when the same arises.
.  The Company's and the Owner's joint and several reimbursement obligations in respect of any drawing under a Priority L/C shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment that the Company or the Owner may have or have had against the Priority L/C Issuer, any beneficiary of a Priority L/C or any other Person. The Company and the Owner also agree with each Priority Lender that such Priority Lender shall not be responsible for, and the Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even though such documents shall in fact prove to be invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Company or the Owner and any beneficiary of any Priority L/C or any other party to which such Priority L/C may be transferred or any claim s whatsoever of the Company or the Owner against any beneficiary of such Priority L/C or any such transferee. The Priority L/C Issuer shall not be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Priority L/C, except for errors or omissions found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Priority L/C Issuer. The Company and the Owner agree that any action taken or omitted by the Priority L/C Issuer under or in connection with any Priority L/C or the related drafts or documents, if done in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct and in accordance with the standards of care specified in the Uniform Customs and, to the extent not inconsistent therewith, the law of the State of New York, shall be binding on the Company and the Owner and shall not result in any liability of the Priorit y L/C Issuer to the Company or the Owner.
3.6  
Obligations Absolute
.  If any draft shall be presented for payment under any Priority L/C, the Priority L/C Issuer shall promptly notify the Company, the Owner, the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent and the Security Agent of the date and amount thereof; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Company or the Owner of its obligation to reimburse the Priority L/C Issuer and the Priority Lenders with respect to any such payment. The responsibility of the Priority L/C Issuer to the Company in connection with any draft presented for payment under any Priority L/C shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such Priority L/C, be limited to determining that the documents (including each draft) delivered under such Priority L/C in connection with such presentment are substantially in conformity with such Priority L/C.
3.7  
Priority L/C Payments
provided
.  If any Post-Effective Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Company or the Owner receives notice from the Priority Agent or the Required Priority Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Company and the Owner jointly and severally agree to deposit in the Priority L/C Account for the benefit of the Priority Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Priority L/Cs as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Post-Effective Event of Default with respect to the Company or the Owner described in clause (k)(ii) of Section 7.1 of this Agreement. Moneys in such account shall be applied in accordance with the Security Deposit Agreement.
3.8  
Cash Collateralization
provided
.  The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the occurrence of the Effective Date under the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement.
4.1  
Conditions to Effectiveness
.  The obligations of the Priority Lenders to provide Priority Loans under Section 2.1 of this Agreement and the obligation of the Priority L/C Issuer to issue, amend or extend any Priority L/C are subject to the fulfillment to the satisfaction of, or waiver by the Priority Agent (acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders) of, each of the following conditions precedent on such Priority Borrowing Date.
4.2  
Conditions to Each Priority Loan
(a) Except with respect to a Priority Borrowing Notice deemed delivered pursuant to Section 3.5(c) of this Agreement (for which no notice need be delivered pursuant to this Section 4.2(a)), the Priority Agent shall have received a duly executed counterpart of an appropriately completed borrowing notice in the form of Exhibit B (a "") delivered by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) not later than 11:00 a.m. New York City time at least one Business Day prior to a proposed borrowing date under Section 2.1 of this Agreement or three Business Days prior to a proposed issuance date for a Priority L/C under Section 3.2 of this Agreement (such proposed date, a ""). Each Priority Borrowing Notice shall include the following:
Priority Borrowing Notice
Priority Borrowing Date
(i) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (both before and after giving effect to the requested borrowing);
(ii) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement and the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are true and accurate in all material respects as if made on and as of the Priority Borrowing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date;
(iii) a description by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) as to the use of the proceeds of the Priority Loans being requested and a certification by the Independent Engineer that such Priority Loans are required by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) to pay Operating Costs and/or Priority Scheduled Debt Service;
(iv) in the event that the Priority Borrowing Notice requests the issuance of a Priority L/C, the information required by Section 3.2 of this Agreement;
(v) certification by the Company or the Owner (as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement) that since the Effective Date, no event, condition or circumstance has occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(b) no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (both before and after giving effect to the requested borrowing);
(c) since the Effective Date, no event, condition or circumstance has occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(d) the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement and the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement are true and accurate in all material respects as if made on and as of such Priority Borrowing Date, except to the extent such representations and warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company may submit a Priority Borrowing Notice at such time as is necessary to request that Priority Loans be made available on the Effective Date for the purpose of making the Required Interest Deposit.
.  The Company (i) is a limited partnership duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (ii) has all requisite partnership power, authority and legal right to own, lease and operate the Project and other property and assets it purports to own or lease and to carry on its business as now being conducted and as proposed to be conducted in respect of the Project; (iii) is duly qualified as a foreign limited partnership in the State of Connecticut and is duly authorized to do business in each other jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify would not materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents; and (iv) has all requisite partnership power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each Trans action Document and each other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby to which it is a party.
(a)
Organization; Powers
  The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each Transaction Document to which it is a party and the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby (i) have been duly authorized by all requisite action, including, if required, partner action on the part of the Company and (ii) will not (A) violate, result in the breach of or constitute a default under, any Legal Requirement or Requirement of Law or Contractual Obligation applicable to or binding on it as of the date hereof, (B) be in conflict with or result in a breach of the partnership agreement of the Company or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a Default, Event of Default, Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default or (C) result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) upon or with respect to any o f the Collateral.
(b)
Authorization and No Legal Bar
.
.  Each Transaction Document to which the Company is a party has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability (i) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (ii) is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(c)
Enforceability
.  No consent or other action by (i) any holder or trustee of any indebtedness or other obligations of the Company or (ii) any other Person under any Legal Requirement, Requirement of Law or Contractual Obligation applicable to or binding on the Company is or will be required by the Company in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each Transaction Document to which it is a party and the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except such as have been made or obtained and are in full force and effect.
(d)
Consents
.  The financial statements of the Company furnished to the Creditors pursuant to Section 5.1(c)(i) and (ii) of the Participation Agreement most recently prior to the Effective Date fairly present, and each financial statement of the Company delivered on or after the Effective Date pursuant to this Agreement will fairly present, the financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of such dates and for such periods. All such financial statements were or will be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.
(e)
Financial Statements
.  The Company has not engaged in any business or activity other than in connection with the development, acquisition, construction, leasing, operation and financing of the Project.
(f)
Business
.  Except as set forth on Schedule 5.1(g) to this Agreement, there is no (i) injunction, writ, preliminary restraining order or other order of any nature by an arbitrator, court or any other Governmental Authority, or (ii) action, suit, arbitration, investigation or proceeding at law or in equity by or before any arbitrator, court or any Governmental Authority pending against the Company or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened against the Company or any property or other assets or rights of the Company with respect to any Transaction Document, the Project or against any other Material Project Participant, that would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(g)
Litigation
.  Except as set forth on Schedule 5.1(h) to this Agreement and with respect to which arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Agent have been made, the Company and the Project are in compliance with all Legal Requirements, Governmental Actions applicable to either the Company or the Project and all material terms and provisions of all Project Contracts, except for such noncompliance as in any case would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(h)
Compliance with Law
.  No Post-Effective Event of Default or Post-Effective Default has occurred and is continuing.
(i)
No Post-Effective Default
.  Neither the Company nor any of the members in the Company is engaged, directly or indirectly, principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending, or arranging for the extension of, credit for the purposes of purchasing or carrying any margin stock, within the meaning of Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. No part of the proceeds of any loans will be used for "purchasing" or "carrying" any "margin stock" as so defined, or for extending credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, or for any purpose which would violate, or cause a violation of, any such regulation.
(j)
Federal Reserve Regulations
.  The Company is not an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act.
(k)
Investment Company Act
.
(l)
Utility Regulation
(i) The Company was determined by an order of the FERC issued March 5, 1999, in Docket No. EG99 -67-000, 86 FERC Paragraph 62,178 (1999), to be an EWG. No motions to intervene or comments were filed with the FERC in Docket No. EG99-67-000. Such order was validly issued by the FERC. The Company on August 30, 1999, filed in good faith a new application for a determination of EWG status from the FERC (the "") to reflect that the Trust would own the Project and lease it to the Company. The Company was determined by an order of the FERC issued October 14, 1999, in Docket No. EG99-220-000, 89 FERC Paragraph 62,027 (1999), to be an EWG. No motions to intervene or comments were filed with the FERC in Docket No. EG99-220-000. Such order was validly issued by the FERC. As a result of such orders, the Company is an EWG, and as a result cannot by considered to be an "electric utility company" or a "public utility company" under PUHCA, and is exempt from all provisions of PUHCA (other than section 9(a)(2) thereof).
New Company EWG Application
(ii) The Company has been granted by an order of the FERC issued March 31, 1999, in Docket No. ER99 -1714 -000, 86 FERC Paragraph 61,337 (1999), and currently has the authority to sell at wholesale, from the Project or otherwise, electric capacity and energy at market-based rates (not subject to any rate cap or other market power mitigation measure). Such order was validly issued by the FERC and is final and in full force and effect, and all applicable periods for the filing of any request for rehearing or application for judicial review of such order have expired without any such request or application having been filed. Neither such order nor such authority of the Company is the subject of any pending or threatened judicial or administrative proceeding.
(iii) The Owner was determined by an order of the FERC issued October 14, 1999 in Docket No. EG99-221-000, 89 FERC Paragraph 62,028 (1999), to be an EWG. As a result of such order, the Owner is an EWG and as such cannot be considered to be an "electric utility company" or a "public utility company" under PUHCA and is exempt from all provisions of PUHCA (other than section 9(a)(2) thereof). Such order was validly issued by the FERC and is final and in full force and effect. Neither such order nor the status of the Owner as an EWG is the subject of any pending or threatened judicial or administrative proceeding.
(iv) The Company is not subject to any public utility regulation under Connecticut law that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company is not, and will not by reason of (A) the leasing, ownership, operation or maintenance of the Project by the Company or (B) any other transaction contemplated by any Transaction Document, be deemed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction to be or otherwise become, a "public service company" or an "electric company" as defined in, or otherwise subject to regulation under, Title 16, Public Service Companies, of the Connecticut General Statutes (including any of the rules and regulations thereunder).
(v) Neither the Owner nor any Creditor will, solely by reason of (A) the leasing, operation or maintenance of the Project by the Company, (B) the making of loans or other extensions of credit or investments or (C) any other transaction contemplated by any Transaction Document, be deemed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction to be or otherwise become a "public utility", a "public utility company", an "electric supplier", a "public utility holding company", a "public service company", an "electric utility", an "electric company", an "electric utility company" or an "electric supplier" (or an affiliate of any thereof) under PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or Title 16, Public Service Companies, of the Connecticut General Statutes or otherwise subject to regulation applicable to any such entity under PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or Title 16, Public Service Companies, of the Connecticut General Statutes.
.  The Company has filed, or caused to be filed, all Federal, state, local and foreign tax and information returns that are required to have been filed by it in any jurisdiction, and has paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes and assessments payable by it, to the extent the same have become due and payable, except to the extent there is a good faith contest thereof by appropriate proceedings by the Company which are described on Schedule 5.1(m) to this Agreement and for which the Company shall have set aside adequate reserves to the extent required by GAAP.
(m)
Taxes
.  The Owner and the Company have good title to, or a valid leasehold, license, easement or other interest in, the Facility Site, the Appurtenant Rights relating to the Facility Site and the tangible personal property forming a part of the Collateral purported to be covered by the Security Documents to which it is a party, subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens and Mechanic's Liens with respect to which the Priority Agent has not yet notified the Company or the Owner that the existence of such Mechanic's Liens constitutes a Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default under Section 7.1(c) of this Agreement. Except to the extent possession is required for perfection, all filings, recordings, registrations and other actions have been made, obtained and taken in all relevant jurisdictions that are necessary to create and perfect the Liens in all right, title, estate and inte rest of the Company and the Owner in the personal property forming the Collateral, subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens and Mechanic's Liens with respect to which the Priority Agent has not yet notified the Company or the Owner that the existence of such Mechanic's Liens constitutes a Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default under Section 7.1(c) of this Agreement.
(n)
Collateral
.  The Company has obtained and holds in full force and effect all patents, trademarks, copyrights and other such rights or adequate licenses therein, free from restrictions which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, which are necessary for the ownership, operation and maintenance of the Project.
(o)
Intellectual Property
.  The Company does not sponsor, maintain, administer, contribute to, participate in, or have any obligation to contribute to or any liability under, any employee benefit plan within the meaning of section 3(3) of ERISA nor since the date which is six years immediately preceding the Effective Date has the Company established, sponsored, maintained, administered, contributed to, participated in, had any obligation to contribute to or liability under, any such plan. The Company and each ERISA Affiliate are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code and all other laws applicable to such plans, including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
(p)
ERISA and Employees
.  (i) All material Governmental Actions necessary for the construction, operation, use, leasing and ownership of the Project, and all Governmental Actions necessary for the routine maintenance of the Project, are identified in Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement, (ii) all Governmental Actions necessary for the construction and operation of the Project, and all Governmental Actions necessary for the routine maintenance of the Project, that have been obtained on or prior to the Effective Date (which Governmental Actions are set forth on Part A of Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement) have been duly obtained and are in full force and effect on the Effective Date and, except as specified on Part A of Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement, are not subject to any appeal or further proceeding and (iii) the Company has no reason to believe that all Governmental Actions nece ssary for the construction, operation, use, leasing, ownership and routine maintenance of the Project that have not been obtained on or prior to the Effective Date (which Governmental Actions are set forth on Part B of Schedule 5.1(q) to this Agreement) will not be obtained in the ordinary course of business on or prior to the date such Governmental Actions will be required to permit the timely construction, operation, use, leasing, ownership and routine maintenance of the Project.
(q)
Governmental Actions
.  All utility services, road way access and fuel and power connection services necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the Project for its intended purposes are or will be available for the Project as and when required on commercially reasonable terms.
(r)
Utility Services
(s) .  Priority L/Cs issued for the account of the Company and the proceeds of the Priority Loans received directly by the Company shall be applied by the Company solely in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.1(t) of this Agreement.
Use of Proceeds
.  The Owner represents and warrants to each of the other parties hereto as follows:
5.2  Repr
esentations and Warranties of the Owner
.  The Owner (i) is a statutory trust duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware; (ii) has all requisite trust power, authority and legal right to own the Project and other property and assets it purports to own and to carry on its business as now being conducted and as proposed to be conducted in respect of the Project; (iii) is duly authorized to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify would not materially and adversely affect the Owner's ability to perform its obligations under the Transaction Documents; and (iv) has all requisite trust power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each Transaction Document and each other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby to which it is a party.
(a)
Organization; Powers
.  The execution, delivery and performance of each Operative Document to which it is a party has been duly authorized by all necessary action on its part and neither the execution and delivery thereof by the Owner, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby by the Owner, nor compliance by it with any of the terms and provisions thereof (i) requires or will require any approval (which approval has not been obtained) of any party or approval or consent of any trustee or holders of any indebtedness or obligations of the Owner; (ii) contravenes or will contravene any Legal Requirement or Requirement of Law applicable to or binding on it as of the date hereof; (iii) does or will contravene or result in any breach of or constitute any default under, or result in the creation of any Lien on any of its property under, any indenture, mortgage, chattel mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, bank loan or credit agreement or other material agreement or material instrument to which it is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound; or (iv) does or will require any Governmental Action by any Governmental Authority.
(b)
Authorization
; No Conflict
.  Each Operative Document to which it is a party has been duly executed and delivered by it and constitutes, or upon execution and delivery will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against it in accordance with the terms thereof except as such enforceability (i) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (ii) is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(c)
Enforceability
.  No litigation, investigation or proceeding of or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending or threatened by or against the Owner (i) with respect to any of the Operative Documents or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (ii) that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets, liabilities, operations, business or financial condition of the Owner.
(d)
Litigation
.  The Owner has not assigned or transferred any of its right, title or interest in or under, any Operative Document or the Project, except in accordance with the Operative Documents.
(e)
No Assignment
.  Priority L/Cs issued for the account of the Owner and the proceeds of the Priority Loans received directly by the Owner shall be applied by the Owner solely in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.3(j) of this Agreement.
(f)
Use of Proceeds
.  The Trust's principal place of business, chief executive office and office where the documents, accounts and records relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and each other Operative Document are kept is located at the offices of the Trust Company in Wilmington, Delaware.
(g)
Principal Place of Business
.  The Trust Company represents and warrants to each of the other parties hereto that:
5.3  
Representations and Warranties of the Trust Company
. It is a Delaware banking corporation duly organized and validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has the power and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under the Trust Agreement and has the corporate power and authority to act as the trustee under the Trust Agreement and to enter into and perform the obligations under each of the other Operative Documents to which Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, is or will be a party and each other agreement, instrument and document to be executed and delivered by it on or before the Effective Date in connection with or as contemplated by each such Operative Document to which the Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, is or will be a party.
(a)
Due Organization, etc
. The execution, delivery and performance of each Operative Document to which it or (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of the Trust Agreement by the Investors) the Owner, as the case may be, is a party has been duly authorized by all necessary action on its part and neither the execution and delivery thereof, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, nor compliance by it with any of the terms and provisions thereof (i) does or will require any approval or consent of any trustee or holders of any of its indebtedness or obligations; (ii) does or will contravene any current United States federal law, governmental rule or regulation relating to its banking or trust powers; (iii) does or will contravene or result in any breach of or constitute any default under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of its property under, its charter o r by-laws, or any indenture, mortgage, chattel mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, bank loan or credit agreement or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound or affected; or (iv) does or will require any Governmental Action by any Governmental Authority of the United States or the State of Delaware regulating its banking or trust powers.
(b)
Authorization; No Conflict
. The Trust Agreement and, assuming the Trust Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Investor, each other Operative Document to which Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, is a party have been, or on or before the Effective Date will be, duly executed and delivered by Trust Company or the Owner, as the case may be, and the Trust Agreement and each such other Operative Document to the extent entered into by the Trust Company constitutes, or upon execution and delivery will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against Trust Company in accordance with the terms thereof except as such enforceability (A) may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (B) is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(c)
Trust Company Enforceability, etc
. No action, investigation, suit or proceeding of or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending or threatened by or against the Trust Company with respect to any of the Operative Documents to which it is or will be a party or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
(d)
Litigation
. It is not an "electric utility", "electric utility company", "public utility", "public-utility company", "holding company" or a "subsidiary" or "affiliate" of any of the foregoing, under the Federal Power Act or PUHCA.
(e)
Holding Company Act and Federal Power Act
. The Company shall at all times (i) preserve and maintain in full force and effect (A) its existence as a limited liability company and its good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and its qualification to do business in the State of Connecticut and (B) its qualification to do business in each other jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned or leased by it or in which the transaction of its business as conducted or proposed to be conducted makes such qualification necessary, (ii) except as otherwise expressly permitted in the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders), obtain and maintain in full force and effect all material Governmental Actions and other consents and approvals required at any time in connection with the con struction, use, leasing, maintenance, ownership or operation of the Project, and (iii) except as otherwise expressly permitted in the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders), preserve and maintain good and marketable title to or a valid leasehold, easement or other interest in its properties and assets (subject to no Liens other than Permitted Liens and Mechanic's Liens with respect to which the Priority Agent has not yet notified the Company or the Owner that the existence of such Mechanic's Liens constitutes a Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default under Section 7.1(c) of this Agreement).
(a)
Maintenance of Existence and Governmental Action
. The Company shall keep proper books and records and accounts in accordance with GAAP and in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Legal Requirements, Requirements of Law and Governmental Actions and make the same available for inspection by the Priority Agent and each Priority Lender.
(b)
Inspection of Books and Records
. The Company shall furnish to the Priority Agent:
(c)
Financial Statements
(i) all financial statements required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.1(c)(i) and (ii) of the Participation Agreement (which provisions are hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed by the Required Priority Lenders) as and when the same are due to be delivered to the Administrative Agent thereunder;
mutatis mutandis
(ii) on or before the fifteenth Business Day of each calendar month, an unaudited balance sheet for the Company and contemporaneously with the delivery thereof, copies of all reports, financial information, statements and other documents delivered to NEG's revolving credit lenders; and
(iii) each time the financial statements of the Company are delivered under clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 6.1(c), a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company shall be delivered along with such financial statements, certifying that such Responsible Officer has made or caused to be made a review of the transactions and financial condition of the Company during the relevant fiscal period and that such review has not, to the best of such Responsible Officer's knowledge, disclosed the existence of any event or condition which constitutes a Post-Effective Default or a Post-Effective Event of Default or if any such event or condition existed or exists, the nature thereof and the corrective actions that the Company has taken or proposes to take with respect thereto (and the Company shall deliver a copy of said certificate to the Administrative Agent).
. The Company shall comply with, and shall ensure that the Project is constructed and operated in compliance with, and shall make such alterations to the Project as may be required for compliance with, all applicable Legal Requirements and Governmental Actions, except where non-compliance would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(d)
Compliance with Laws
(e)
Notices
.
(i) Promptly upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Company shall give notice to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent of: (A) any Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default, together with a description of any action being taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto and (B) timely notice of the commencement of any material litigation or other proceeding against NEG or any of its Subsidiaries.
(ii) Promptly upon obtaining knowledge thereof, the Company shall give notice to the Priority Agent of any matter for which the Company is required to give notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.1(e) of the Participation Agreement (which provisions are hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed by the Required Priority Lenders).
mutatis mutandis
(f) . The Company shall:
EPC Contract Matters; Other Information
(i) promptly after its receipt thereof, deliver to the Priority Agent copies of (i) each monthly progress report received by the Company from the EPC Contractor under Section 12.4.1 of the EPC Contract; (ii) any "Cure Period Plan" (as defined in the EPC Contract) delivered under Section 8.3.3 of the EPC Contract and (iii) any "Outage Plan" (as defined in the EPC Contract) delivered under Section 8.3.4 of the EPC Contract;
(ii) concurrently with its delivery thereof to the EPC Contractor, deliver to the Priority Agent, copies of each material notice or other communication delivered by the Company to the EPC Contractor pursuant to the EPC Contract; and
(iii) promptly, from time to time, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial conditions of the Company or the Project as the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, the advisers retained by (or on behalf of) or counsel to the Priority Agent or the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
. The Company shall maintain insurance against physical loss, public liability, property damage and other insurance, all as set forth on Schedule 6.1(g) to this Agreement.
(g)
Maintenance of Insurance
. Within 30 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, the Company shall submit to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent a certificate certifying that insurance meeting the Insurance Requirements is in full force and effect and that all premiums then due in respect of such insurance have been paid.
(h)
Insurance Certificate
. The Company will pay and discharge promptly when due all material Taxes and governmental charges imposed upon it or upon its income or profits or in respect of its property, in each case before the same shall become delinquent or in default and before penalties accrue thereon, unless and to the extent the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves with respect thereto shall, to the extent required by GAAP, have been set aside, and failure to pay or comply with the contested item could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(i)
Taxes
. The Company shall preserve the security interests granted under the Security Documents and upon request by the Priority Agent undertake all actions which are necessary or appropriate in the reasonable judgment of the Priority Agent to (i) maintain the Security Agent's security interest in the Collateral in full force and effect at all times (including the priority thereof), and (ii) preserve and protect the Collateral and protect and enforce the Company's rights and title and the rights of the Security Agent to the Collateral, including the making or delivery of all filings and recordations, the payments of fees and other charges and the issuance of supplemental documentation.
(j)
Preservation of Security Interests
(k)
Annual Budget
.
(i) Each Annual Budget shall be subject to the approval of the Priority Agent (acting in consultation with the Independent Engineer).
(ii) Not less than 10 days prior to the start of each calendar month falling after the calendar month in which the Effective Date occurs, the Company shall submit to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent a revised operating plan and budget which updates and amends the Annual Budget then in effect for the applicable Fiscal Year. The Priority Agent shall have the right to approve any such update or amendments to the Annual Budget in consultation with the Independent Engineer. Any such updates or amendments approved by the Priority Agent shall become part of the Annual Budget for such Fiscal Year.
(iii) The Company will operate and maintain the Project, or cause the Project to be operated and maintained, in accordance with the Annual Budget.
. The Company shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Priority Agent the Independent Forecast delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 5.1(n) of the Participation Agreement (which provision is hereby incorporated herein by reference as the same are in effect as of the Effective Date as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, modification, supplement or waiver thereof unless agreed by the Required Priority Lenders); that the Independent Forecast must be prepared by the Independent Power Market Consultant or another independent nationally recognized forecasting consultant reasonably acceptable to the Priority Agent.
(l)
Market Forecasts
mutatis mutandis
provided
. The Company agrees that the Priority Agent, Administrative Agent, the Independent Engineer and other consultants engaged by the Administrative Agent may visit the Project at any time and from time to time after reasonable notice (and the reasonable costs and expenses of such Person incurred in connection with such visit shall be paid by Company) so long as such visit does not unreasonably interfere with the construction, operation, maintenance, start-up or testing of the Project.
(m)
Inspection of Project
. The Company shall at all times cause a complete set of the current and (when available) as-built plans and specifications (and all supplements thereto) relating to the Project to be maintained at the Facility Site's corporate office or the EPC Contractor's offices and available for inspection by the Independent Engineer, the Priority Agent or its representative and the Administrative Agent or its representative. The Company shall, not later than three months after "Final Completion" (as defined in the EPC Contract), cause an as-built survey to be prepared and delivered to the Independent Engineer, the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for the Creditors).
(n)
Plans and Specifications; As-built Survey
. The Company shall give the Independent Engineer, the Administrative Agent and the Priority Agent (and their respective designees) reasonable prior notice of, all performance tests under the EPC Contract and shall permit such Persons to witness and verify all such tests.
(o)
EPC Contract Performance Tests
. The Company shall, or shall cause the Operator to, use, maintain and operate the Project in compliance with generally accepted prudent operating and maintenance practices, the material provisions of all relevant Project Contracts and NEPOOL rules and procedures.
(p)
Operation and Maintenance
. The Company shall, in accordance with plans approved by the Priority Agent (acting in consultation with the Independent Engineer), make Required Modifications.
(q)
Required Modifications to Facilities
. The Company shall maintain at all times its status as an EWG and its authority to sell at wholesale electric capacity and energy and certain energy-related products at market-based rates (not subject to any rate cap or other market power mitigation measure unless such measure is applied to all participants in the relevant market), and (notwithstanding any provision of any Operative Document) the Company shall not take or omit to take any action which action or omission could reasonably be expected to result in the loss of such status or such authority.
(r)
EWG Status; Market-Based Rate Authority
(s) . The Company shall deliver to the Priority Agent and the Administrative Agent on the third Business Day of each week after the Effective Date: (i) a sources and uses report in form satisfactory to the Priority Agent; (ii) a forecast of the Company's cash receipts and disbursements for the ensuing 13-week period beginning with the subsequent calendar week, together with a comparison of actual results to prior forecasts, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Priority Agent; and (iii) a certification by a Responsible Officer of the Company that no Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Weekly Reporting
(t)
Use of Proceeds.
(i) The Company shall use the proceeds of Priority Loans made available to it solely for the purposes of: (A) paying Operating Costs and Priority Scheduled Debt Service in accordance with the Priority Borrowing Notice related to such funding, (B) financing Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations and (C) making the Required Interest Deposit on the Effective Date.
(ii) The Company shall only request the issuance of Priority L/Cs solely for the purpose of providing security to Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company in respect of gas purchase and gas transportation agreements and power sale agreements to which such Persons and the Company or the Owner are party (or to which the Company or the Owner become a party).
. Unless and until all Priority Obligations have been paid in full and the Priority Commitments have been terminated or expired, the Company covenants and agrees that:
6.2
Negative Covenants of the Company
(a) The Company shall not enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation, change its form of organization or its business, liquidate or dissolve itself (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution), or amend its governing instruments in any material respect. The Company shall not have any Subsidiaries, or purchase or otherwise acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any other Person. In addition, except as provided below or as expressly permitted in the Project Contracts, the Company shall not sell, lease (as lessor) or transfer (as transferor) any property or assets material to the operation of the Project except in the ordinary course of business or to the extent that such property is worn out or is no longer useful or necessary in connection with the operation of the Project; provided, however, that the Company shall not, in any e vent, sell, lease or transfer any of such property or assets without the written approval of the Priority Agent if the aggregate fair market value of all sales, leases and transfers in the current fiscal year exceeds $5 million escalated at the GDPIPD starting January 1, 2000.
Limitation on Fundamental Changes, Subsidiaries and Disposition of Assets
.
. The Company shall not engage in any business other than the development, acquisition, construction, leasing, operation and financing of the Project as contemplated by the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders).
(b)
Limitation on Nature of Business
. The Company shall not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon the Project or any other part of the Collateral, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than Permitted Liens.
(c)
Limitation on Liens
. The Company shall not create or incur or suffer to exist any Indebtedness except for: (i) Indebtedness incurred under the Operative Documents prior to the Effective Date which claims are structurally subordinated to claims hereunder; (ii) financial obligations arising under the Project Contracts; and (iii) trade accounts payable (other than for borrowed money) arising, and accrued expenses incurred, in the ordinary course of business so long as such trade accounts payable are payable within 90 days of the date the respective goods are delivered or the respective services are rendered.
(d)
Limitation on Indebtedness
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit the Operator to, enter into any transaction or agreement with any Affiliate except any Transaction Document as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders), unless such transaction or agreement is approved by the Required Priority Lenders.
(e)
Limitation on Transactions with Affiliates
. The Company shall not enter into any Fixed Price PGET Power Purchase Agreement or Fixed Price PGET Gas Supply Agreement except with the prior approval of the Required Priority Lenders.
(f)
Limitation on Changes to PGET Power Purchase and Gas Supply Agreements
. The Company shall not enter into any Third Party Power Purchase Agreements or Third Party Gas Supply Agreements except with the prior approval of the Required Priority Lenders.
(g)
Limitation on Third Party Power Purchase and Gas Supply Arrangements
. The Company shall not terminate, amend or modify any Project Contract except with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.
(h)
Limitation on Amendments to Project Contracts
. The Company shall not make any distribution or payment on account of any membership or other equity interest in the Company or any payment on account of any Subordinated Debt.
(i)
Limitation on Distributions and Payments on Subordinated Debt
The Company shall not take any action (or omit to take any action which it has the authority to take) which action (or omission) could reasonably be expected to result in either:
(j)
Limitation on Actions Resulting in Regulation of Parties
.
(i) the Company's being deemed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction to be or otherwise becoming a "public service company" or an "electric company" or "electric supplier" as defined in, or otherwise subject to regulation under, Title 16, Public Service Companies, of the Connecticut General Statutes (including the rules and regulations thereunder); or
(ii) the Owner or any Creditor being deemed by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction to be or otherwise becoming, solely by reason of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, a "public utility", a "public utility company", a "public utility holding company", a "public service company", an "electric utility", an "electric company", an "electric utility company", an "electric supplier" or any similar type of entity (or an affiliate of any thereof) under any applicable law (including PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or Title 16, Public Service Companies, of the Connecticut General Statutes) or otherwise subject to any regulation relating to any such type of entity (or affiliates thereof) under any Legal Requirement or Requirement of Law (including PUHCA, the Federal Power Act or Title 16, Public Service Companies, of the Connecticut General Statutes).
The Company shall not release, emit or discharge into the environment any Hazardous Substances other than in compliance with all Legal Requirements, except where such non-compliance could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(l)
Hazardous Substances
(m) . The Company shall not make any Optional Modification unless such Modification is approved by the Priority Agent acting with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.
Optional Modifications
(n) . The Company shall not enter into any Additional Project Contract unless approved by the Priority Agent acting with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.
Additional Project Contracts
. Unless and until all Priority Obligations have been paid in full and all Priority Commitments have been terminated or expired:
6.3
Covenants of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company
. Each of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company will not create, permit, incur, assume or suffer to exist at any time, and will, at its own cost and expense, promptly take such action as may be necessary duly to discharge, or to cause to be discharged, and indemnify and hold harmless the other Creditors and the Company against all losses, costs and damages arising from all Owner Liens attributable to it or any of its Affiliates; provided, however, that no such Person shall be required so to discharge any such Owner Lien while the same is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently prosecuted so long as such proceedings shall not involve any material danger of impairment of the Liens of the Security Documents or of the sale, forfeiture or loss of, and shall not interfere with the use or disposition of, the Project or title thereto or any interest therein or the payment of Rent.
(a)
Discharge of Liens
. Without prejudice to any right under the Trust Agreement of the Trust Company to resign, each of the Trustee and the Trust Company hereby agrees with the Company and other Creditors (i) not to terminate or revoke the trust created by the Trust Agreement unless the Secured Obligations are paid in full, (ii) not to amend, supplement, terminate or revoke or otherwise modify any provision of the Trust Agreement or any other Operative Document without the prior written consent of any party hereto adversely effected by such amendment and (iii) to comply with all of the terms of the Trust Agreement.
(b)
Trust Agreement
. The Trust Company or any successor may resign as trustee, a successor trustee may be appointed, and a corporation may become the trustee under the Trust Agreement, only in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Trust Agreement (as modified by the Transfer Agreement) and with the consent of the Priority Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
(c)
Successor Trust Company
. The Owner shall not (i) conduct, transact or otherwise engage in, or commit to transact, conduct or otherwise engage in, any business or operations other than the entry into, and exercise of rights and performance of obligations in respect of, the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders) and other activities incidental or related to the foregoing, or (ii) own, lease, manage or otherwise operate any properties or assets other than in connection with the activities described in clause (i), or incur, create, assume or otherwise suffer to exist any Indebtedness or other consensual liabilities or financial obligations other than as may be incurred, created or assumed or as may exist in connection with the activities described in clause (i) (including the Loans, Priority Lo ans and other obligations incurred by the Owner pursuant to the Transaction Documents).
(d)
Other Business; Indebtedness
. Each of the Trustee, the Owner and the Trust Company shall give at least 30 days prior written notice to the Company, the Priority Agent and each other Creditor if its principal place of business or chief executive office, or the office where the records concerning the accounts or contract rights relating to the Project are kept, shall cease to be located in Wilmington, Delaware or if it shall change its name.
(e)
Change of Principal Place of Business
. The Owner shall not convey, sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property, business or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except to the extent expressly permitted by the Transaction Documents as in effect as of the Effective Date (unless subsequently amended with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders).
(f)
Disposition of Assets
. The Owner, or the Company on its behalf, shall provide to any Priority Lender at such Priority Lender's request on the Effective Date and on or prior to September 30 of each year copies of (i) a balance sheet of the Trust as of the end of the then most recently ended calendar year of the Owner and (ii) a profit and loss statement of the Owner for the one-year period ended as of the end of such calendar year, in each case signed by a Responsible Officer of the Owner if so requested by such Priority Lender.
(g)
Financial Statements
. The Owner shall at all times observe and perform all of the covenants, conditions and obligations required to be performed by it under each Operative Document to which it is a party. Except as expressly contemplated by the related Consent to Assignment or, following the occurrence of an Event of Default or Post-Effective Event of Default, in connection with the enforcement of remedies under the Operative Documents, the Owner shall not take any action under any Project Contract.
(h)
Compliance with Operative Documents; Actions Under Project Contracts
. Each of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company shall not (i) commence any case, proceeding or other action under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to the Owner or its debts, or (ii) seek appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for the Owner or for all or any substantial benefit of the Owner's creditors, in each case without the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders; and each of the Owner, the Trustee and the Trust Company shall not take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set forth in this paragraph without the prior written consent of the Required Priority Lenders.
(i)
No Voluntary Bankruptcy
(j)
Use of Proceeds.
(i) The Owner shall use the proceeds of Priority Loans made available to it solely for the purposes of: (A) paying Operating Costs and Priority Scheduled Debt Service in accordance with the Priority Borrowing Notice related to such funding, (B) financing Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations and (C) making the Required Interest Deposit on the Effective Date.
(ii) The Owner shall only request the issuance of Priority L/Cs solely for the purpose of providing security to Persons that are not Affiliates of the Company in respect of gas purchase and gas transportation agreements and power sale agreements to which such Persons and the Owner are party (or to which the Owner becomes a party).
(a) . The Company or the Owner shall fail to make payment of (i) of any interest, fees or other amounts (other than principal) payable in respect of Priority Loans or otherwise payable under this Agreement within five Business Days after the sum has become due and payable, or (ii) any principal in respect of Priority Loans or any Priority L/C Reimbursement Obligations on the due date therefor; or
Payments
(b) . The Company shall fail to maintain insurance that complies with the Insurance Requirements; or
Insurance
(c) . The Company shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition set forth in the following Sections of this Agreement: Section 6.1(a) (Maintenance of Existence and Governmental Action), Section 6.1(c) (Financial Statements), Section 6.1(e)(i)(A) (Notices), Section 6.1(g) (Maintenance of Insurance), Section 6.1(h) (Insurance Certificate), Section 6.1(o) (EPC Contract Performance Tests) or Section 6.1(t) (Use of Proceeds) or any provision of Section 6.2 (Negative Covenants of the Company) (but, solely with respect to Section 6.2(c), in the event such failure results from the imposition of Mechanic's Liens, such failure shall remain uncured for a period of 30 days after receipt of notice of such failure by the Company from the Priority Agent); or
No Grace Covenants
(d) . The Company shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition set forth in the following Sections of this Agreement: Section 6.1(d) (Compliance with Laws), Section 6.1(f) (EPC Contract Matters, Other Information), Section 6.1(j) (Preservation of Security Interests), Section 6.1(q) (Required Modifications to Facilities) or Section 6.1(s) (Weekly Reporting) and the Priority Agent shall notify the Company of such failure; or
Notice Covenants
(e) . The Company or the Owner shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition of this Agreement or any other Operative Document to which it is a party (other than those specified in or encompassed by clauses (a) through (d) above and those relating to the subject matter covered by clauses (g), (h), (i) and (n) below) and such failure shall remain uncured for a period of 30 days after receipt of notice of such failure by the Company or the Owner, as the case may be, from the Priority Agent; or
Other Covenants
(f) . Any representation or warranty by the Company or the Owner set forth in this Agreement or in the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement or in any document entered into in connection herewith or therewith or in any certificate, financial statement or other document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made (or deemed made); or
Representations, etc
(g) . Save as provided in clauses (h) and (i) of this Section 7.1, any Project Contract shall terminate or otherwise cease for any reason to be in full force and effect prior to its stated termination date; or any Material Project Participant shall default in the performance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in any such Project Contract (and such default shall not be cured within the grace period, if any, provided therefor in such Project Contract) and such default has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; or
Project Contracts
(h) PGET Power Purchase or Gas Supply Agreements.
(i) Unless the Company and PGET have entered into an Approved Replacement Contract, the PGET Power Purchase Agreement or the PGET Gas Supply Agreement shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect prior to its stated termination; or
(ii) Unless the Company and PGET have entered into an Approved Replacement Contract, PGET shall default in the performance of any term, covenant or agreement contained in the PGET Power Purchase Agreement or the PGET Gas Supply Agreement or any "Event of Default" (howsoever described) shall arise thereunder (and such default shall not be cured within the grace period, if any, provided therefor in such Material Project Contract); or
(i) . NEG shall repudiate any of its obligations under the Project Contract Limited Guaranty; or NEG shall disavow or otherwise contest its liability thereunder; or
Project Contract Limited Guaranty
(j) . A Change of Control shall occur; or
Change of Control
(k) . (i)  The Company or the Owner shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (ii) any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Company or the Owner seeking to adjudicate it bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in suc h proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or (iii) the Company or the Owner shall take any partnership or other action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this clause (k); or
Bankruptcy, Insolvency, Dissolution, etc
(l) . One or more final, non-appealable judgments for the payment of money (if such payments are not covered by insurance in effect pursuant to the Insurance Requirements) in excess of $5,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Company or the Owner and such party shall not discharge the same or provide for its discharge in accordance with its terms, or procure a stay of execution thereof, within 60 days after the day of entry thereof; provided, however, that any such judgment or order shall not be (and shall not constitute part of) a Post-Effective Event of Default under this clause (l) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
Judgments
(m) . (i)  The Company shall engage in any "prohibited transaction" (as defined in section 406 of ERISA or section 4975 of the Code) involving any Plan, or (ii) any "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived, shall exist with respect to any Plan of the Company, or (iii) a Reportable Event shall occur with respect to, or proceedings shall commence to have a trustee appointed, or a trustee shall be appointed, to administer or to terminate any Single Employer Plan of the Company, which Reportable Event or institution of proceedings is, in the reasonable opinion of the Owner, likely to result in the termination of such Plan for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, or (iv) any Single Employer Plan of the Company shall terminate for purposes of Title IV of ERISA, and in each case such event or condition, together with all other such events or conditions, if any, could have a Material Adverse Effect; or
ERISA Violation
(n) . The grant of the Lien of any of the Security Documents shall fail in any material respect to provide a perfected Lien in favor of the Security Agent for the benefit of the Creditors or any of the Collateral with the priority purported to be created thereby; or
Security Interests
(o) . The Company shall repudiate any of its obligations under the Structural Guaranty; or the Company shall disavow or otherwise contest its liability thereunder; or
Structural Guaranty
(p) [Intentionally Omitted]
(q) . Prior to the commencement of the Term of the Lease, a Significant Condemnation or a Casualty shall occur; or
Significant Condemnation or Casualty
(r) . A Regulatory Event of Loss shall have occurred and be continuing; or
Regulatory Event of Loss
(s) . All of the Company's and the Owner's right, title and interest in, to and under the Project shall not have been transferred to the Creditors by the date which is 180 days after the Effective Date unless extended by the Required Priority Lenders; or
Transfer
(t) . NEG shall repudiate any of its obligations under the NEG Guarantee; or NEG shall disavow or otherwise contest its liability thereunder.
NEG Guarantee
Upon the occurrence of a Post-Effective Event of Default specified in Section 7.1(k)(ii) of this Agreement with respect to either the Company or the Owner, the Priority Commitments shall automatically and immediately terminate and the Priority Loans (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing hereunder shall immediately become due and payable; that, notwithstanding anything in the Operative Documents to the contrary, the Required Priority Lenders may by written direction (a "") to the Priority Agent (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, the Trust Company and the Trustee) direct that such acceleration and termination be rescinded and, upon such rescission, the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be restored as in effect immediately prior to such acceleration and termination (although, for the avoidance of doubt, unless such Rescission Direction specifically waives the occurrence o f such Post-Effective Event of Default, such Post-Effective Event of Default shall be and remain outstanding notwithstanding such rescission). Upon the occurrence of any other Post-Effective Event of Default (or to the extent that the acceleration and termination contemplated by the previous sentence is rescinded, but the related Post-Effective Event of Default is not waived), either or both of the following actions may be taken: (i) with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent may, or upon the request of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent shall, by notice to the Owner and the Company, declare the Priority Commitments to be terminated forthwith, whereupon the Priority Commitments shall immediately terminate; and (ii) with the written consent of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent may, or upon the request of the Required Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent shall, by notice to the Owner and the Company, declare the Priority Loans hereunde r (with accrued interest thereon) and all other amounts owing hereunder and under the other Operative Documents to be due and payable forthwith, whereupon the same shall immediately become due and payable. Except as expressly provided herein, presentment, demand, protest and all other notices of any kind are hereby expressly waived. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Post-Effective Event of Default, the Security Agent and the other Creditors may exercise any and all rights and remedies in accordance with and subject to the provisions under the Security Documents, the Lease, the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement and any other applicable Operative Document, as well as all their rights and remedies under applicable law.
7.2
Remedies.
provided
Rescission Direction
. For all periods prior to the date (the "") on which a case by or against the Company is instituted under the Bankruptcy Code, the Company, the Priority Lenders, the Priority Agent, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company and the Administrative Agent hereby agree that:
8.1
Company's Owner Loan Agreement Rights
Petition Date
(a) as between the Company and the Owner, the Company shall have the exclusive right to give all of the notices to be given by the Company or the Owner to the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder and to deliver the Priority Borrowing Notices pursuant to this Agreement; and
(b) the Company shall have the exclusive right to consent to amendments of this Agreement in accordance with Section 10.1 of this Agreement.
. For all periods on and after the Petition Date, if the Required Priority Lenders deliver (x) a Rescission Direction as specified in Section 7.2 of this Agreement with respect to the Post-Effective Event of Default relating to the Company under Section 7.1(k)(ii) of this Agreement and (y) a notice to the Priority Agent, the Priority Lenders, the Owner, the Trustee, the Trust Company and the Administrative Agent directing that this Section 8.2 be effective, the Parties hereto hereby agree that:
8.2
Owner's Loan Agreement Rights
(a) as between the Company and the Owner, the Owner (acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders) shall have the exclusive right to give all of the notices to be given by the Company or the Owner to the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder and to deliver the Priority Borrowing Notices pursuant to this Agreement;
(b) all references to the Company in the following Sections of this Agreement shall be deemed to be references to Owner for all purposes hereunder: Section 6.1(d) (Compliance with Laws), Section 6.1(e)(i) (Notices) (but only with respect to the Company's obligations under clause (A) thereof), Section 6.1(f) (EPC Contract Matters; Other Information), Section 6.1(g) (Maintenance of Insurance), Section 6.1(j) (Preservation of Security Interests), Section 6.1(k)(i) (Annual Budget), Section 6.1(l) (Market Forecasts), Section 6.1(n) (Plans and Specifications; As-built Survey), Section 6.1(o) (EPC Contract Performance Tests), Section 6.1(p) (Operation and Maintenance), Section 6.2(e) (Limitation on Transactions with Affiliates), Section 6.2(f) (Limitation on Changes to PGET Power Purchase and Gas Supply Agreements), Section 6.2(g) (Limitation on Third Party Power Purchase and Gas Supply Agreements), Section 6.2(h) (Limitation on Amendments to Project Contracts), Section 6.2(i) (Limitation on Distr ibutions and Payments of Subordinated Debt), Section 6.2(l) (Hazardous Substances), Section 7.1(b) (Insurance), Section 7.1(c) (No Grace Covenants), Section 7.1(d) (Notice Covenants), Section 7.1(e) (Other Covenants) and Section 7.1(h) (PGET Power Purchase or Gas Supply Agreements); and
(c) the Owner shall have the exclusive right to consent to amendments of this Agreement in accordance with Section 10.1 of this Agreement and the other Operative Documents and all references to the Company in such Section 10.1 shall be deemed to be references to the Owner.
. The Priority Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel of its choice concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Priority Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.
9.2
Delegation of Duties
. Neither the Priority Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates shall be (a) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Operative Document (except to the extent that any of the foregoing are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from its or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct) or (b) responsible in any manner to any Priority Lender for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by either Debtor or any officer thereof contained in this Agreement or any other Operative Document or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Priority Agent under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other Operative Document or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other Operative Document or for any failure of either Debtor or any other party thereto to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. The Priority Agent shall not be under any obligation to any Priority Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Agreement or any other Operative Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of the Debtors or any other Person.
9.3
Exculpatory Provisions
. The Priority Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any instrument, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telecopy, telex or teletype message, statement, order or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including counsel to the Company or the Owner), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Priority Agent. The Priority Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Priority Note as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Priority Agent. The Priority Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any other Operative Document unless it shall first receive such legal advice or the concurrence of the Required Priority Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Priority Lenders) as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Priority Lenders against any and all liability and expense that may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Priority Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents in accordance with a written request of the Required Priority Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Priority Lenders) and such written request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Priority Lenders.
9.4
Reliance by Priority Agent
. The Priority Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default unless the Priority Agent has received written notice from a Priority Lender, the Company or the Owner referring to this Agreement and the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement, describing such Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that the Priority Agent receives such a written notice, the Priority Agent shall give notice thereof to the Priority Lenders and the Administrative Agent. The Priority Agent shall take such action with respect to such Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Priority Lenders); that unless and until the Pr iority Agent shall have received such written directions, the Priority Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Post-Effective Default or Post-Effective Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Priority Lenders.
9.5
Notice of Default
provided
. Each Priority Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Priority Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates have made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the Priority Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Debtors or any of their respective affiliates, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Priority Agent to any Priority Lender. Each Priority Lender represents to the Priority Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Priority Agent or any other Priority Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Debtors and their respective affiliates and made its own decision to extend credit to or otherwise invest funds in the Debtors or the Project and to enter into the Operative Documents to which it is a party. Each Priority Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Priority Agent or any other Priority Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analyses, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Debtors and their respective affiliates. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Priority Lenders by the Priority Agent hereunder, the Priority Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Priority Lender with any credit or other information concerning the busine ss, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of the Debtors or their respective affiliates that may come into the possession of the Priority Agent or any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or affiliates.
9.6
Non-Reliance on Priority Agent and Other Creditors
. The Priority Lenders agree to indemnify the Priority Agent in its capacity as such and its officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents (to the extent not reimbursed by the Company and without limiting the obligation of the Company to do so), ratably according to their respective Priority Commitment Percentages in effect on the date on which indemnification is sought under this Section, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and agents' fees and expenses) or disbursements of any kind whatsoever that may at any time (whether before or after the payment of the Secured Obligations) be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Priority Agent in any way relating to or arising out of, the Priority Commitments, this Agreement, any of the other Transaction Documents or any documents contempl ated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any action taken or omitted by the Priority Agent under or in connection with any of the foregoing; that no Creditor shall be liable for the payment of any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements that are found by a final and nonappealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the Priority Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The agreements in this Section shall survive the payment of the Secured Obligations and all other amounts payable hereunder.
9.7
Indemnification
provided
. With respect to Priority Commitments and Priority Loans made or renewed by it or any of its Affiliates and with respect to any Priority L/C issued or participated in by it, Citibank and its Affiliates shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents as any Priority Lender and may exercise the same as though Citibank were not the Priority Agent, and the terms "Creditor", "Priority L/C Issuer", "Priority Lender", "Lender", "Interest Hedge Party", and "Participant" shall (to the extent applicable) include Citibank in its individual capacity.
9.8
Priority Agent in Its Individual Capacity
. Citibank may resign as Priority Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Priority Lenders and the Debtors. If Citibank should resign as Priority Agent, the Required Priority Lenders shall appoint from among the Priority Lenders a successor Priority Agent, whereupon such successor agent shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the Priority Agent, and the term "Priority Agent" shall mean such successor agent effective upon such appointment and approval, and Citibank's rights, powers and duties as Priority Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of Citibank or any of the parties to this Agreement or any holders of the Secured Obligations. If no successor agent has accepted appointment as Priority Agent by the date that is 30 days following Citibank's notice of resignation, Citibank's resignation shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Priority Lenders shall assume and perform all of the duties of the Priority Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Priority Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above. After any Person's resignation as Priority Agent, the provisions of this Section shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Priority Agent under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents.
9.9
Successor Priority Agent
. The Priority Agent shall deliver to each Priority Lender and the Administrative Agent a copy of each Annual Budget, market forecast, financial statement, default certificate and other report required to be delivered by the Company to it under the Operative Documents.
9.10
Reports, Etc
. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices, consents, directions, approvals, instructions, requests and other communications required or permitted by the terms hereof to be given to any Person shall be given in accordance with Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement.
10.2
Notices
. No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent, the Priority L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender hereunder, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.3
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, the Owner, the Priority Lenders, the Priority L/C Issuer, the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent, all future holders of the Priority Loans and their respective successors and permitted assigns, except that neither the Company nor the Owner may assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of each Priority Lender hereunder.
10.4
Successors and Assigns; Participations and Assignments
. Any Priority Lender hereunder may with the consent of the Priority Agent, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks, financial institutions or other entities (each, a "") participating interests in any Priority Loan owing to such Priority Lender, any Priority L/C Interest held by it, any Priority Commitment of such Priority Lender or any other interest of such Priority Lender hereunder and under the other Operative Documents. In the event of any such sale by a Priority Lender hereunder of a participating interest to a Participant, such Priority Lender's obligations under this Agreement to the other parties to this Agreement shall remain unchanged, such Priority Lender shall remain solely responsible for the performance thereof, such Priority Lender shall remain the holder of any such Priority Loan, Priority L/C Interest or Priority Commitment for all purposes u nder this Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the Owner, the Company, the Priority Agent, the Priority L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Priority Lender in connection with such Priority Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents. In no event shall any Participant have any right (i) to enforce any obligation of the Company or the Owner as against the Company or the Owner unless such Participant shall be a third party beneficiary of such obligation or (ii) to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Operative Document, or any consent to any departure by the Company, the Owner or any other Person therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, any Priority Loan, or postpone the date of the final maturity of any Priority Loan, or reduce the amount of any Priority Commitment Fee paya ble hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation. The Company and the Owner also agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12 of this Agreement with respect to its participation in the Priority Commitments and the Priority Loans outstanding from time to time as if it were a Priority Lender hereunder; that, in the case of Section 2.12 of this Agreement, such Participant shall have complied with the requirements of said Section; and , , that no Participant shall be entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to any such Section than the transferor Priority Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of the participation transferred by such transferor Priority Lender to such Participant had no such transfer occurred. No Participant may sell the interest it acquires in any Priority Loans, Priority L/C Interests or Priority Commitments under this Section 10.5 or any port ion thereof (including by way of a sale of a participation in such interest) to any Person other than a Priority Lender.
10.5
Participations
Participant
provided
provided
further
. (a)Any Priority Lender hereunder may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time and from time to time assign (i) to any Priority Lender hereunder, (ii) to any Affiliate of any Priority Lender hereunder, (iii) to any Lender or (iv) with the consent of the Priority Agent and Priority L/C Issuer to an additional bank, financial institution or other entity (each, a ""), all or any part of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Operative Documents pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto (an ""), executed by such Purchasing Lender, such assigning Priority Lender (and, in the case of a Purchasing Lender that is not (x) a Lender, (y) a Priority Lender hereunder or (z) an Affiliate of either thereof, by the Priority Agent acting at the direction of the Required Priority Lenders ) and delivered to the Priority Agent for its acceptance and recording in the Priority Register; that, except in the case of an assignment of all of a Priority Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (A) the amount of the Priority Loans, rights to receive payment on Priority L/C Interests and/or Priority Commitment of the assigning Priority Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (1) to any Person described in clauses (a)(i), (ii) or (iii) above shall equal at least $1,000,000 and (2) to any Person described in clause (a)(iv) above shall equal at least $5,000,000 and (B) after giving effect to each such assignment, the assigning Priority Lender (together with any Priority Lender which is an affiliate of such assigning Lender) shall retain Priority Loans, rights to receive payment on Priority L/C Interests and/or Priority Commitment, respectively, aggregating not less than $1,000,000.
10.6
Assignments
Purchasing Lender
Assignment and Acceptance
provided
Each assignment by a Priority Lender of (1) its Priority Commitment shall be made contemporaneously with an assignment of its Priority Loans and Priority L/C Interest, as relevant, and (2) its Priority Loans or Priority L/C Interest, as relevant, shall be made contemporaneously with an assignment of its Priority Commitment and, in either case, shall be made in such a manner so that the same portion of its Priority Commitment, Priority Loans and Priority L/C Interest, as relevant, is assigned to the respective Purchasing Lender.
Upon the execution, delivery, acceptance and recording of an Assignment and Acceptance, from and after the effective date determined pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the Purchasing Lender thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Priority Lender hereunder with Priority Loans, Priority L/C Interests and/or Priority Commitments as set forth therein, and (y) the assigning Priority Lender thereunder shall, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of an assigning Priority Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such assigning Lender shall cease to be a party hereto). In addition, if such Purchasing Lender is a Non-U.S. Lender, such Purchasing Lender shall also deliver the documents required under Section 2.12(b) of this Agreement. Such Assignment and Acceptan ce shall be deemed to (I) amend this Agreement to the extent, and only to the extent, necessary to reflect the addition of such Purchasing Lender and the resulting adjustment of Priority Commitment Percentage arising from the purchase by such Purchasing Lender of all or a portion of the rights and obligations of such assigning Priority Lender and (II) amend the Second Omnibus Restructuring Agreement for purposes of decreasing the amount of Roll-Up Loans held by the assigning Priority Lender and establishing or increasing the Roll-Up Loans to be held by the Purchasing Lender. The assignment by a Priority Lender of its Priority Commitment and/or Priority Loans shall reduce the Roll-Up Loans held by such Priority Lender by a principal amount equal to (i) the product of three times the amount of Priority Commitment so assigned (ii) an aggregate amount equal to the interest capitalized on Roll-Up Loans having a principal amount equal to the (i) above from the Effective Date to the Assignment Effective Date referenced in the related Assignment and Acceptance. The Purchasing Lender shall be entitled to designate from its Residual Loans a principal amount equivalent to (i) above to the treated as Roll-Up Loans. Capitalized interest from the Effective Date on such Residual Loans will be promoted to become Roll-Up Loans; that such amount shall be no greater than the amount determined pursuant to clause (ii) above. The effective date of an assignment may only occur on an Interest Date.
plus
provided
(b) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Priority Lender and a Purchasing Lender (and, in the case of a Purchasing Lender that is not a Priority Lender hereunder, an Affiliate thereof or a Lender, by the Priority Agent) together with payment to the Priority Agent of a registration and processing fee of $2,500, the Priority Agent shall (i) promptly accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) on the effective date determined pursuant thereto, record the information contained therein in the Priority Register and give notice of such acceptance and recordation to the Priority Lenders, the Administrative Agent, the Company and the Owner. Any assignment of any Priority Loan whether or not evidenced by a Priority Note shall be effective only upon appropriate entries with respect thereto being made in the Priority Register (and each Priority Note shall expressly so provide). Any assignment or transfer of all or part of a Priority Loan evidenced by a Priority Note s hall be registered on the Priority Register only upon surrender for registration of assignment or transfer of the Priority Note evidencing such Priority Loan, accompanied by a duly executed Assignment and Acceptance, and thereupon one or more new Priority Notes if requested in the same aggregate principal amount shall be issued to the designated Purchasing Lender (and if the assigning Priority Lender has retained Priority Loans, new Priority Notes if requested to the assigning Priority Lender equal to the amount of Priority Loans retained by it hereunder), and the old Priority Notes shall be returned by the Priority Agent to the Company marked "cancelled". On or prior to the effective date of any Assignment and Acceptance, the Company, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Priority Agent new Priority Notes if requested, and such new Priority Notes shall be dated such effective date and shall otherwise be in the form of the Priority Notes replaced thereby. The Priority Agent shall maintain at i ts address referred to in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it.
(c) Nothing herein shall prohibit any Priority Lender hereunder from pledging or assigning any Priority Loan or Priority Note to any Federal Reserve Bank as collateral security in accordance with applicable law.
. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
10.7
Counterparts
. If any one or more of the covenants or agreements provided in this Agreement on the part of the parties hereto to be performed should be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, such covenant or agreement shall be deemed and construed to be severable from the remaining covenants and agreements herein contained and shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
10.8
Severability
. THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY PRIORITY NOTES AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
10.9
GOVERNING LAW
.
10.10
Nonrecourse
(a) Anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in any other Operative Document notwithstanding, no officer, director or shareholder of the Owner (all such Persons being hereinafter referred to collectively as the ""), shall be personally liable in any respect for any liability or obligation hereunder or under any other Operative Document including the payment of the principal of, or interest on, the Priority Notes, or for monetary damages for the breach of performance of any of the covenants contained in this Agreement, the Priority Notes or any of the other Operative Documents. The Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent and the Priority Lenders agree that, in the event any of them pursues any remedies available to them under this Agreement, the Priority Notes or any other Operative Document, none of the Priority Agent, the Administrative Agent nor the Priority Lenders shall have any recourse against the Owner, nor any other Exculpated Person, for any deficiency, lo ss or claim for monetary damages or otherwise resulting therefrom and recourse shall be had solely and exclusively against the Collateral; but nothing contained herein shall be taken to prevent recourse against or the enforcement of remedies against the Project in respect of any and all liabilities, obligations and undertakings contained in this Agreement, the Priority Notes or any other Operative Document. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.10(a), nothing in this Agreement or any other Operative Document shall (i) constitute a waiver, release or discharge of any obligation evidenced or secured by this Agreement or any other Operative Document, (ii) limit the right of the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent or any Priority Lender hereunder to name the Company or the Owner as a party defendant in any action or suit for judicial foreclosure and sale under any Security Document, or (iii) affect in any way the validity or enforceability of the Structural Guaranty or a ny other guaranty (whether of payment and/or performance) given to the Administrative Agent, the Priority Agent, the Security Agent or the Priority Lenders, or of any indemnity agreement given by the Company, in connection with the Priority Loans made hereunder.
Exculpated Persons
(b) Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that the Trust Company is (except as otherwise expressly provided herein or therein) entering into this Agreement and the other Operative Documents to which it is a party (other than the Trust Agreement), solely in its capacity as trustee under the Trust Agreement and not in its individual capacity, and that Trust Company shall not be liable or accountable under any circumstances whatsoever in its individual capacity for or on account of any statements, representations, warranties, covenants or obligations stated to be those of the Trustee, except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct and as otherwise expressly provided herein or in the other Operative Documents. Except as specifically provided in the Trust Agreement and except to the extent that the Trust Company shall have acted in its individual capacity, all Persons having any claim against the Owner or the Trust Company acting in its capacity as Trustee by reason of the transactions contempla ted hereby shall look only to the Trust Estate for payment or satisfaction thereof.
The Table of Contents and headings of the various Sections and subsections of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not modify, define, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.
10.11
Headings, etc
.
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any other Operative Document, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
10.12
Conflicts, etc
.
It is the express intent of the Operative Documents that the Owner is to be a passive investment vehicle established for the purpose of facilitating the lease financing described in the Operative Documents. In consideration thereof, the Company hereby expressly agrees that all of the obligations of the Owner hereunder shall constitute "Guaranteed Obligations" as such term is defined in the Structural Guaranty the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein in full, , and without giving effect to any subsequent amendment, waiver, modification or supplement thereof unless agreed in writing by the Required Priority Lenders ( that notwithstanding the incorporation of such terms, no demand need be made by any Person on the Company under the Structural Guaranty in order for amounts to be due and payable by the Company thereunder in respect of Guaranteed Obligations consisting of the obligations of the Owner hereunder).
10.13
Structural Guaranty
.
mutatis mutandis
provided
. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Company and the Owner herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Priority Loans and issuance of any Priority L/C, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Priority Agent, the Priority L/C Issuer or any Priority Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Post-Effective Default, Post-Effective Event of Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Priority Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or an y Priority L/C is outstanding and so long as the Priority Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.11, 2.12 and Section 9 of this Agreement shall survive and remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
10.14
Survival
 
 
 
 
The parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
Additional signature pages omitted


