FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20040331172346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 5.  Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
          As previously disclosed, two commissioners of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) filed an appeal in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (District Court) from the order issued by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (Bankruptcy Court) on December 22, 2003 confirming Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) plan of reorganization (Plan).  The Plan incorporates the provisions of the settlement agreement entered into among the Utility, PG&E Corporation, and the CPUC on December 19, 2003 (Settlement Agreement) to resolve the Utilitys Chapter 11 case.  The Bankruptcy Courts confirmation order determined that the Settlement Agreement, the material terms of which are included within the confirmation order, was consistent with state law and is enforceable under federal law.  The City of Palo Altos appeal also is pending in the District Court.  As previously reported, on January 5, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court denied these appellants request for a stay of the confirmation order pending their appeal.  On March 19, the dissenting commissioners pending appeal was transferred to District Court Judge Vaughn Walker.
          On March 30, 2004, the dissenting commissioners filed a motion in the District Court seeking to stay the implementation of the Bankruptcy Courts confirmation order until their appeal can be resolved.   The hearing on the motion is set for June 3, 2004, although the two CPUC commissioners have also requested the District Court to hear their motion on an expedited basis, as soon as April 8, 2004. 
          PG&E Corporation and the Utility believe the motion should be denied because it is untimely,  without merit, and the dissenting commissioners lack standing to appeal the confirmation order.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility believe  the District Court, like the Bankruptcy Court, should refuse to stay the confirmation order.
          The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including portions of the Utilitys monthly operating report for the month ended February 29, 2004 filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (Bankruptcy Court) attached hereto, is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K.
      
          On March 30, 2004, the Utility filed its monthly operating report for the month ended February 29, 2004 with the Bankruptcy Court, as required by Section 704(8) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and Rule 2015 of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and prepared in accordance with U.S. Trustee Guidelines Region 17. The Utilitys monthly operating report includes an unaudited income statement for the month and an unaudited balance sheet dated as of the end of the month. These unaudited financial statements are attached to this report.  Although not included in this report, the monthly operating report filed with the Bankruptcy Court also includes a statement of receipts and disbursements, as well as other information.  The preliminary financial statements were prepared using certain assumptions and estimates that are subject to revision.  Any adjustments for these estimates (based upon changes in facts and circumstances, further analysis, and other factors) will be reflected in the financial statements in the period during which such adjustments are made. These adjustments could have a material impact on reported results in the future.


