FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20040312171528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
Item 5.  Other Events
A. Rating Agency Actions
          As previously disclosed, among other conditions, before Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) confirmed plan of reorganization (Plan) under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code can become effective,
Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) must have issued an issuer credit rating and a credit rating for the long-term debt provided for under the Plan of not less than BBB- and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) must have issued an issuer rating and a credit rating for the long-term debt provided for under the Plan of not less than Baa3. 
          On March 11, 2004,
S&P announced that it expects to raise the Utilitys corporate credit rating to BBB- from D upon the Utilitys anticipated emergence from its Chapter 11 proceeding pending in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (Bankruptcy Court).  S&P also announced that the ratings of the Utility are currently on CreditWatch with positive implications.  S&P stated that it expected that it would assign a rating of BBB to the Utilitys senior secured debt upon emergence from bankruptcy.  S&P stated that the anticipated ratings reflect the Utilitys current and projected financial profile, as well as the regulatory, operational and litigation risks facing the Utility.  In particular, S&P noted that the California Public Utilities Commissions (CPUC) pledge to restore and preserve investment-grade ratings for the Utility is an important component of the anticipated credit ratings.  S&P also noted that its conclusion that the Utility exhibits investment-grade attributes is closely linked to the $2.21 billion after-tax regulatory asset established by the settlement agreement entered into among the Utility, PG&E Corporation and the CPUC in December 2003 (Settlement Agreement).  S&P noted that definitive debt ratings would not be assigned until the Utility emerges from bankruptcy and other conditions specified in the Utilitys Plan are met. 
          
On March 12, 2004, Moodys
announced that it had upgraded the Utilitys issuer rating to Baa3 from Ba2 and assigned a prospective rating for the Utilitys senior secured debt of Baa2 which would become effective upon closing of the Utilitys senior secured debt financing.  Moodys also upgraded the Utilitys preferred stock to Ba2 from B1.  Finally, Moodys assigned a Baa2 rating to the Utilitys $850 million secured bank revolving credit facility that has also been arranged as part of the Utilitys exit financing plan.  Moodys rating outlook for the Utility is stable. 
          Moodys stated that its action reflects the expected stability of cash flows and operating earnings anticipated from the Utility over the next several years through the implementation of the Settlement Agreement.  Moodys noted that one of the core elements of the Settlement Agreement is the existence of the $2.21 billion after-tax regulatory asset that will be created as an additional part of the Utilitys rate base, and is to be recovered pursuant to a target return on equity of 11.22 percent over a nine-year period.  Moodys also noted that numerous challenges and uncertainties remain for companies operating in California, including the manner in which competition might continue in the future, resource planning decisions within and around the state, and the degree to which utilities will own or build generation in the future.  Finally, Moodys noted the uncertainty around the outcome of the Utilitys 2003 general rate case and the implementation of a long-term procurement plan as contracts with the California Department of Water Resources and qualifying facilities expire.
          There is no assurance that S&Ps anticipated ratings or Moodys prospective ratings will actually be assigned.  Further, there is no assurance that Moodys ratings (those already assigned and the prospective ratings which may become effective) and the ratings that may be assigned by S&P will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be revised downward or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies or either of them if, in their judgment, circumstances so warrant.
B.  Status Conference Statement
          On March 12, 2004, the Utility filed its status conference statement with the Bankruptcy Court for the status conference to be held on March 22, 2004.  In its statement, the Utility notified the Bankruptcy Court that, subject to the satisfaction of the remaining conditions to implementation of the Plan, the Utility expects that the effective date of the Plan will occur during the week of April 12, 2004.  The Utility also noted that on March 10, 2004, it had filed a request with the Bankruptcy Court to approve an amendment to Section 8.2(a) of the Plan to provide that the effective date must occur before May 15, 2004, rather than March 31, 2004, as Section 8.2(a) currently provides.  The Utility has requested that the Bankruptcy Court approve this amendment at its March 22, 2004 status conference if not sooner.


