FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20040122172400.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5.  Other Events.
On January 20, 2004, the City of Palo Alto, the City and County of San Francisco (CCSF), and Aglet Consumer Alliance (Aglet) filed separate applications with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) requesting that the CPUC rehear and reconsider its decision, issued on December 19, 2003, approving the modified settlement agreement dated as of December 19, 2003 (Settlement Agreement) among Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), PG&E Corporation, and the CPUC regarding resolution of the Utility's Chapter 11 case pending at the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California (Bankruptcy Court).  CCSF, Aglet, and the CPUCs Office of Ratepayer Advocates, or ORA (an independent office within the CPUC) also filed a joint application for rehearing. 
Although the CPUC is not required to act on the applications within a specific time period, if the CPUC has not acted on the applications within 60 days the applications may be deemed denied for purposes of seeking judicial review.
The only appeals of the Bankruptcy Courts December 22, 2003 order confirming the Utilitys plan of reorganization, have been filed by the City of Palo Alto and CPUC Commissioners Lynch and Wood.  The appellants filed their appeals in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (District Court).  The District Court will set a schedule for briefing and argument of the appeals at a later date.
Item 7.  Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information, and Exhibits
Exhibit 99    Notice to Directors and Executive Officers, dated January 22, 2004
Item 11.  Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefits Plan
On January 20, 2004, PG&E Corporation received a notice from the plan administrator of the PG&E Corporation Retirement Savings Plan for Union-Represented Employees (RSP)with respect to a blackout period that will be applicable to those participants in the RSP whose individual accounts are transferred from the Pacific Gas and Electric Company Savings Fund Plan for Union-Represented Employees (SFP) to the RSP effective March 1, 2004.  The plan administrator sent the notice to PG&E Corporation as required by Section 101(i) (2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
On January 22, 2004, PG&E Corporation sent a notice to its directors and executive officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Section 16 Officers), as amended, informing them that the blackout period is expected to be in effect beginning 1:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time, on February 26, 2004 and ending during the week of March 14, 2004.  The existence of the blackout period restricts the directors and Section 16 Officers from engaging in transactions involving certain equity securities and derivative securities of PG&E Corporation during the blackout period.  The notice was provided pursuant to Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  A copy of the notice is attached as Exhibit 99 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
During the blackout period and for a period of two years after the end of the blackout period, a security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, the actual start and end dates of the blackout period by contacting the Corporate Secretary of PG&E Corporation at 415-267-7070, One Market, Spear Tower, Suite 2400, San Francisco, CA 94105.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 22, 2004

Exhibit 99
January 22, 2004
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF PG&E CORPORATION:
Re: 
Restrictions on Trading in PG&E Corporation Securities During a Blackout Period
During an upcoming blackout period in PG&E Corporations 401(k) plan, new rules prohibit you from purchasing, selling, acquiring, or transferring PG&E Corporation common stock or associated derivative securities (i.e., stock options and phantom stock) that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of PG&E Corporation.
A blackout period will be in effect as a result of a transfer of the assets of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company Savings Fund Plan for Union-Represented Employees (SFP) to the PG&E Corporation Retirement Savings Plan for Union-Represented Employees (RSP).  This blackout period will begin at , and is expected to end the week of March 14, 2004.  During the blackout period, the plan participants whose accounts are being transferred from the SFP to the RSP will not be able to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts, obtain a loan from the SFP or the RSP, or obtain a distribution from the SFP or the RSP.
1:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time, on February 26, 2004
Under new rules adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, PG&E Corporation is required to notify you of this blackout period and of certain restrictions on trading in PG&E Corporation securities during the blackout period.
You may not take the following actions during the blackout period:
Purchase, sell, acquire, or transfer shares of PG&E Corporation common stock that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of PG&E Corporation;
Exercise PG&E Corporation stock options;
Transfer your deferred compensation account balance to or from the PG&E Corporation phantom stock account; or
Make an intra-plan transfer of an existing account balance to or from the PG&E Corporation stock fund in the PG&E Corporation Retirement Savings Plan.
The new rules will exempt certain transactions from the trading restriction, including contributions of new money to the PG&E Corporation Retirement Savings Plan, acquisition of phantom stock upon deferral of compensation in accordance with the terms of the Corporations deferred compensation plans, and transactions that occur pursuant to a contract, instruction, or written plan that satisfies the affirmative defense conditions of SEC Rule 10b5-1(c).
For further information regarding this blackout period, please contact me at the following address and phone number:
Linda Y.H. Cheng Corporate Secretary PG&E Corporation One Market, Spear Tower Suite 2400 San Francisco, CA 94105 (415) 267-7017
Sincerely,
LINDA Y.H. CHENG
Linda Y.H. Cheng Corporate Secretary PG&E Corporation


