FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20050412165256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 Item 1.01  Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
 Amendment to PG&E Corporation Credit Agreement
           On April 12, 2005, PG&E Corporation entered into an amendment its unsecured $200 million revolving credit agreement with BNP Paribas, as administrative agent and a lender, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., as syndication agent and a lender, ABN Amro Bank, N.V., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., and Union Bank of California, N.A., as documentation agents and lenders, and the following other lenders: Barclays Bank PLC, Citicorp USA, Inc., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, Morgan Stanley Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, The Bank of Nova Scotia, KBC Bank N.V., and The Bank of New York.  The credit facility will be used for working capital purposes.  PG&E Corporation has not made any borrowings or issued any letters of credit under the credit facility.  
to
            The amendment extends the term of the credit facility from three years to five years, with all amounts due and payable on December 10, 2009.  The amendment also adds a new level to the credit facility pricing grid, providing that the applicable margin for Eurodollar loans will be 0.50%, the applicable margin for base rate loans will be 0.00%, and the facility fee rate will be 0.15%, if PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), is rated at least BBB+ by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and Baa1 by Moodys Investors Services.  The substantial majority of changes were made to conform the covenants, representations and events of default of the credit agreement to those in the Utilitys $1 billion revolving credit agreement entered into on April 8, 2005 (the New Credit Agreement).  PG&E Corporation paid an amendment fee of $150,000 in connection with these changes.
            The lenders and agents under the amendment to PG&E Corporations $200 million credit agreement and the New Credit Agreement and their affiliates have in the past provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, underwriting, lending, commercial banking and other advisory services to the Utility and PG&E Corporation.  These parties have received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation from the Utility and PG&E Corporation for such services.
Item 2.03  Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
            The information set forth above in Item 1.01 regarding the amendment to PG&E Corporations $200 million revolving credit agreement is hereby incorporated into Item 2.03(a) by reference.
Dated:  April 12, 2005


