FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20060622172405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On June 21, 2006, the PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) Boards of Directors adopted resolutions amending the PG&E Corporation and Utility Bylaws to permit PG&E Corporation and the Utility to implement a book-entry Direct Registration System, which allows shares of stock to be owned, reported, and transferred electronically without the need for physical stock certificates. Previously, the PG&E Corporation and Utility Bylaws required certificates to be issued upon transfer of shares and to replace lost certificates. Under California law, a shareholder still may receive a paper certificate upon request. The amendments to the Bylaws became effective June 21, 2006. The text of the amendment to PG&E Corporations Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the text of the amendment to the Utilitys Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The information set forth under this item and in Exhibit 99.3 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K.
 
During the next several weeks, members of PG&E Corporations management will participate in meetings with various investment professionals at which the presentation slides attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 will be used.
The materials attached as Exhibit 99.3 contain forward-looking statements regarding managements guidance for PG&E Corporations 2006 and 2007 earnings per share from operations, capital expenditures, the Utilitys rate base and rate base growth, anticipated costs and benefits from various initiatives to improve business processes, anticipated electric resources, and targeted average annual growth rate for PG&E Corporations earnings per share from operations, over the 2006-2010 period. These statements are based on current expectations and various assumptions which management believes are reasonable, including that substantial capital investments are made in Utility business over the 2006-2010 period and that the Utility earns an authorized return on equity of 11.35%. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which are outside of management's control. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                                                                                         Exhibits
The following exhibit is being furnished, and is not deemed to be filed:
 
Exhibit 99.3
  
   
PG&E Corporations Presentation Slides for Investor Meetings
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
3
 

Exhibit 99.1
Effective June 21, 2006, Section 2 of Article IV of the Bylaws of PG&E Corporation was amended to read as follows:
2.
Certificates; Direct Registration System
. Shares of the Corporations stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under California law. Any certificates that are issued shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, or a Vice President and by the Chief Financial Officer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Corporate Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares and the class or series of shares owned by the shareholder. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, Transfer Agent, or Registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, Transfer Agent, or Registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were an officer, Transfer Agent, or Registrar at the date of issue. Shares of the Corporations capital stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holders name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the Corporation in accordance with a direct registration system approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the New York Stock Exchange or any securities exchange on which the stock of the Corporation may from time to time be traded.
Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made by the Transfer Agent and Registrar on the books of the Corporation after receipt of a request with proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer by the record holder of such stock, or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and in the case of stock represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate. Subject to the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary or appropriate concerning the issue, transfer, and registration of shares of stock of the Corporation, and to appoint and remove Transfer Agents and Registrars of transfers.
 
Effective June 21, 2006, Section 3 of Article IV of the Bylaws of PG&E Corporation was amended to read as follows:
3.
Lost Certificates
. Any person claiming a certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, mislaid, or destroyed shall make an affidavit or affirmation of that fact and verify the same in such manner as the Board of Directors may require, and shall, if the Board of Directors so requires, give the Corporation, its Transfer Agents, Registrars, and/or other agents a bond of indemnity in form approved by counsel, and in amount and with such sureties as may be satisfactory to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation, before a new certificate (or uncertificated shares in lieu of a new certificate) may be issued of the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the one alleged to have been lost, stolen, mislaid, or destroyed.
 
2

Exhibit 99.2
                            Effective June 21, 2006, Section 2 of Article IV of the Bylaws of Pacific Gas and Electric Company was amended to read as follows:
   
   
   
2.
Certificates; Direct Registration System
. Shares of the Corporations stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under California law. Any certificates that are issued shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, or a Vice President and by the Chief Financial Officer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Corporate Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares and the class or series of shares owned by the shareholder. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, Transfer Agent, or Registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, Transfer Agent, or Registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were an officer, Transfer Agent, or Registrar at the date of issue. Shares of the Corporations capital stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holders name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the Corporation in accordance with a direct registration system approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the American Stock Exchange or any securities exchange on which the stock of the Corporation may from time to time be traded.
Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made by the Transfer Agent and Registrar on the books of the Corporation after receipt of a request with proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer by the record holder of such stock, or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and in the case of stock represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate. Subject to the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make such rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary or appropriate concerning the issue, transfer, and registration of shares of stock of the Corporation, and to appoint and remove Transfer Agents and Registrars of transfers.
 
 
Effective June 21, 2006, Section 3 of Article IV of the Bylaws of Pacific Gas and Electric Company was amended to read as follows:
3.
Lost Certificates
. Any person claiming a certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, mislaid, or destroyed shall make an affidavit or affirmation of that fact and verify the same in such manner as the Board of Directors may require, and shall, if the Board of Directors so requires, give the Corporation, its Transfer Agents, Registrars, and/or other agents a bond of indemnity in form approved by counsel, and in amount and with such sureties as may be satisfactory to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation, before a new certificate (or uncertificated shares in lieu of a new certificate) may be issued of the same tenor and for the same number of shares as the one alleged to have been lost, stolen, mislaid, or destroyed.
 
2
 

 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
14
 
 
15
 
 
16
 
 
17
 
 
18
 
 
19
 
 
20
 
 
21
 
 
22
 
 
23
 
 
24
 
 
25
 
 
26
 
 
27
 
 
28
 
 
29
 
 
30
 
 
31
 
 
32
 
 
33
 
 
34
 
 
35
 
 
36
 
 
37
 
 
38
 
 
39
 
 
40
 
 
41
 
 
42
 
 
43
 
 
44
 
 
45
 
46


