FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20060109171514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Consistent with PG&E Corporations past practice of granting equity incentives on the first business day of the year, on January 3, 2006, PG&E Corporation granted restricted stock and performance shares under the PG&E Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) to key employees and executive officers of PG&E Corporation and its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility).  PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 21, 2005 describes the terms of the restricted stock and performance shares which description is hereby incorporated by reference.  The 2006 LTIP has previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The forms of the restricted stock award and performance share agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  Exhibits
        
Dated:  January 9, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
, a California corporation, hereby grants shares of Restricted Stock to the Recipient named below.  The shares of Restricted Stock have been granted under the PG&E Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the LTIP).  The terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock are set forth in this cover sheet and in the attached Restricted Stock Agreement (the Agreement).
PG&E CORPORATION
Date of Grant:               January 3, 2006
Name of Recipient:
                                                                                                                 
Last Four Digits of Recipients Social Security Number:
                                                      
Number of Shares of Restricted Stock Granted:
                                                                      
Recipient:
                                                                                                                                 
Attachment
By signing the cover sheet of this Agreement, you agree to all of the terms and conditions described above and in the LTIP.

Exhibit 99.2
, a California corporation, hereby grants Performance Shares to the Recipient named below.  The Performance Shares have been granted under the PG&E Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the LTIP).  The terms and conditions of the Performance Shares are set forth in this cover sheet and the attached Performance Share Agreement (the Agreement).
                    PG&E CORPORATION
Date of Grant:                     January 3, 2006
Name of Recipient:
                                                                                                                          
Last Four Digits of Recipients Social Security Number:
                    
Number of Performance Shares:
                                                                                                      
Recipient:
                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                         (Signature)
Attachment
By signing the cover sheet of this Agreement, you agree to all of the terms and conditions described above and in the LTIP.


