FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20070621170907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 20, 2007, the Board of Directors of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) elected William T. Morrow, who is currently the President and Chief Operating Officer of the Utility, to serve as a director of the Utility effective July 1, 2007.  The Utilitys Board of Directors also appointed Mr. Morrow as a member of the Executive Committee and the Capital Distributions Committee of the Utilitys Board of Directors effective July 1, 2007.  As previously reported, Mr. Morrow will become President and Chief Executive Officer of the Utility on July 1, 2007.
To accommodate the election of Mr. Morrow, the Board of Directors of the Utility amended the Utilitys Bylaws to increase the authorized number of directors from 11 to 12, effective July 1, 2007.  Under the Utilitys Bylaws, the authorized number of directors may not be less than 9 nor more than 17, but within that range the Board of Directors may set the exact number of directors by an amendment to the Bylaws.
Under the Utilitys Corporate Governance Guidelines, at least 75% of its Board is required to be composed of independent directors, defined as directors who (1) are neither current nor former officers or employees of, nor consultants to, PG&E Corporation, the Utility, or its subsidiaries, (2) are neither current nor former officers or employees of any other corporation on whose board of directors any officer of the Utility serves as a member, and (3) otherwise meet the definition of independence set forth in the applicable stock exchange rules.  The composition of the Utilitys Board of Directors currently meets the Corporate Governance Guidelines and will continue to do so after Mr. Morrows term as a director begins on July 1, 2007.
any relationship or related transaction with PG&E Corporation or the Utility that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Morrow was selected as a director of the Utility.  Mr. Morrow does not have
Item 5.03. - Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
The information set forth above in Item 5.02 regarding the amendment of the Bylaws of the Utility is incorporated into Item 5.03 of this report by reference.   The text of the amendment to the Utilitys Bylaws is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99           Text of the amendment to the Bylaws of Pacific Gas and Electric Company effective July 1, 2007
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
 

Exhibit 99
1.          The Board of Directors of this Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than nine (9) nor more than seventeen (17).  The exact number of directors shall be twelve (12) until changed, within the limits specified above, by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Number.  
 
 
 


