FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20070306170353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On March 1, 2007, PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), reached a settlement in principle with interested customer representatives and other parties to
set the Utilitys natural gas transmission and natural gas storage
rates and to extend t
he Gas Accord market structure
for the period 2008 through 2010. The parties in support of the settlement include the Utility and 52 other parties representing all segments of the natural gas industry in California, including the California Public Utilities Commissions (CPUC) Division of Ratepayer Advocates. The settlement agreement, or the Gas Accord IV, is subject to execution by all the parties and CPUC approval. It is expected that the settlement will be unopposed. The Utility plans to file an application with the CPUC on March 15, 2007 to request approval of the Gas Accord IV.
The Gas Accord IV proposes to establish the Utilitys natural gas transmission and storage rates, as well as associated revenue requirements, for the period 2008-2010. The Gas Accord IV proposes
a 2008 revenue
requirement of $446 million (about 0.6% above the currently authorized revenue requirement for 2007), a 2009 revenue requirement of $459 million (about 2.9% above the proposed 2008 revenue requirement), and a 2010 revenue requirement of $472 million (about 2.8% above the proposed 2009 revenue requirement). Under the Gas Accord IV, the Utilitys ability to fully recover authorized revenue requirements for its natural gas transmission and storage services would continue to depend on throughput volume and other factors.
 
The Gas Accord IV also proposes to continue the terms and conditions of natural gas transportation and storage services established under the original CPUC-approved Gas Accord s
ettlement agreement implemented in 1998. The original Gas Accord separated the Utilitys natural gas transportation and storage services from the Utility's distribution services for ratemaking purposes. The original Gas Accord changed the terms of service and rate structure for natural gas transportation, allowing the Utility's core customers (
i.e.,
residential and small commercial customers) greater flexibility to purchase natural gas from competing suppliers. The Utility's noncore customers (
i.e.,
industrial, larger commercial and electric generation customers) purchase their natural gas from producers, marketers and brokers, and purchase their preferred mix of transportation, storage and distribution services from the Utility. Although they can select the gas suppliers of their choice, substantially all core customers buy natural gas, as well as transportation and distribution services, from the Utility as a bundled service.
Under the December 2004 CPUC decision that approved the Gas Accord III to retain the Gas Accord market structure and set the rates, terms and conditions of service for the Utilitys natural gas and transportation system through 2007, the Utility is obligated to file a new rate case proposing gas transmission and storage rates and terms and conditions of service, for the period commencing January 1, 2008.
It is expected that the CPUC will issue a final decision with respect to the Gas Accord IV by the end of the year.
If the CPUC does not issue a final decision by the end of the year to approve new rates effective January 1, 2008, the December 2004 CPUC decision approving the Gas Accord III provides that the rates and terms and conditions of service in effect as of December 31, 2007, will remain in effect, with an automatic 2% escalation in the rates as of January 1, 2008.
PG&E Corporation and the Utility are unable to predict whether or when the CPUC will approve the proposed Gas Accord IV.
Dated: March 6, 2007


