FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20071221100650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On December 19, 2007, the Nominating, Compensation and Governance Committee of the PG&E Corporation Board of Directors (Committee) approved the PG&E Corporation 2008 Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP) under which officers and employees of PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) may receive cash awards based on the extent to which specified performance targets for each STIP component are achieved.  Corporate financial performance, as measured by corporate earnings from operations, will determine 40 percent of the incentive, 20 percent of the incentive will be based on the Utilitys success in improving electric and gas distribution system reliability, 20 percent of the incentive will be based on   The Committee will continue to retain full discretion as to the determination of final officer STIP payments.  Actual STIP payments are determined by the Committee based on the extent to which certain pre-established performance targets are met. The Committee will approve the specific performance targets for each STIP component in February 2008.
customer s
atisfaction ratings for the Utility, 10 percent will be based on the results of an employee opinion survey, and the remaining 10 percent will be based on achieving safety goals.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On December 19, 2007, the Utilitys Board of Directors amended the Utilitys Bylaws to decrease the authorized number of directors from 12 to 11, effective January 1, 2008, to eliminate the vacancy on the Board that has existed since the departure of Thomas B. King on July 11, 2007.  Under the Utilitys Bylaws, the authorized number of directors may not be less than 9 nor more than 17, but within that range the Board of Directors may set the exact number of directors by an amendment to the Bylaws.  The text of the amendment to the Utilitys Bylaws is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Under the Utilitys Corporate Governance Guidelines, at least 75% of its Board is required to be composed of independent directors, generally defined as directors who (1) are neither current nor former officers or employees of, nor consultants to, PG&E Corporation, the Utility, or their consolidated subsidiaries, (2) are neither current nor former officers or employees of any other corporation on whose board of directors any officer of the Utility serves as a member, and (3) otherwise meet the definition of independence set forth in the stock exchange rules applicable to PG&E Corporation and the Utility.  The composition of the Utilitys Board of Directors currently meets the Corporate Governance Guidelines and will continue to do so after January 1, 2008.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD
On December 21, 2007 PG&E Corporationwill hold a conference call for members of the financial community during which senior management will provide an update on PG&E Corporations financial outlook.  PG&E Corporations press release dated December 19, 2007 announcing the call is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.  Management will use the presentation attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 during the call.  The presentation is not complete without the accompanying statements to be made by management on the call.  Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 to this report also will be posted on the Investors section of PG&E Corporations website at www.pge-corp.com.
 
2
Item 8.01.  Other Events
A.  Corporate Governance Matters
On December 19, 2007, the Utilitys Board of Directors elected C. Lee Cox as the non-executive Chairman of the Board of the Utility, effective January 1, 2008, to fill the vacancy created by the departure of Thomas B. King on July 11, 2007.  The independent members of the Boards of Directors of PG&E Corporation and the Utility also elected C. Lee Cox as the lead director for each company, effective January 1, 2008, based on the Committees recommendation.
In addition, on December 19, 2007, the Boards of Directors of PG&E Corporation and the Utility voted to amend each companys Corporate Governance Guidelines, effective January 1, 2008, to (a) establish a selection process and a tenure for the position of lead director, (b) establish a tenure for the positions of independent chair of the companies respective Board committees, (c) reflect the division of the current PG&E Corporation Nominating, Compensation, and Governance Committee into two separate committees (the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee), and (d) clarify that the lead director is available for consultation and direct communication with major shareholders.
B.
2008 Cost of Capital Proceeding
on the Utilitys electricity and natural gas distribution and electric generation rate base at the same levels as authorized for 2007.  The decision adopts the following capital structure and rates of return:
On December 20, 2007, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) voted to authorize
the
Utility
s
2008 capital structure and rate of return on equity
The adopted cost of capital, 8.79%, is the same as that authorized for 2007, and will not change the Utilitys 2008 cost of capital revenue requirement.
3
The decision deferred the requirement for the utilities to file their annual cost of capital app
lications originally scheduled to be filed on May 8, 2008, noting that the proceeding remains open for the CPUC to consider mechanisms that could replace the annual cost of capital proceedings.  A final decision on that phase of the proceeding has been pr
e
viously scheduled to be issued by April 24, 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 are being furnished in connection with disclosure pursuant to Item 7.01, and are not deemed to be filed:
 
 
4
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
5
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
1.           The Board of Directors of this Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than nine (9) nor more than seventeen (17).  The exact number of directors shall be eleven (11) until changed, within the limits specified above, by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Number.  
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
December 19, 2007
WEBCAST ALERT:  PG&E CORPORATION ANNOUNCES CONFERENCE CALL WITH INVESTMENT COMMUNITY
San Francisco, December 19, 2007 / PR Newswire  FirstCall/ --  PG&E Corporation (NYSE: PCG) will hold a conference call for members of the financial community on December 21, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. PST / 11:30 a.m. EST.  Chairman, CEO, and President Peter Darbee and other members of senior management will provide an update on the Corporations financial outlook.
 
Investor Relations    415-267-7080
If you are unable to participate during the live webcast, the call will be archived at for one year.
http://www.pgecorp.com/investors/investor_info/conference/index.shtml
PG&E Corporation is an energy-based holding company headquartered in San valued at $34 billion, its electric and gas distribution, natural gas and electric transmission, and electric generation.  It is the parent company of Pacific Gas and Electric Company.  For more information, visit the Web site at .
Francisco, California.  With assets
operations include
http://www.pgecorp.com
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding managements guidance for PG&E Corporations 2007, 2008, and 2009 earnings per share from operations, and targeted compound annual growth rate for earnings per share from operations over the 2007-2011 outlook period.  These statements are based on current expectations and various assumptions which management believes are reasonable, including, among others, that substantial capital investments are made in Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) business over the 2007-2011 period, the Utility earns at least its authorized rate of return on equity on rate base, and the Utilitys ratemaking capital structure is maintained at 52 percent equity. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which are outside of management's control. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 the Utilitys ability to timely recover costs through rates and manage capital and expense costs within authorized levels;
 the outcome of regulatory proceedings, including pending and future ratemaking proceedings at the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission;
 the adequacy and price of electricity and natural gas supplies, and the ability of the Utility to manage and respond to the volatility of the electricity and natural gas markets;
 the effect of weather, storms, earthquakes, fires, floods, disease, other natural disasters, explosions, accidents, mechanical breakdowns, acts of terrorism, and other events or hazards on the Utilitys facilities and operations, its customers, and third parties on which the Utility relies;
 the potential impacts of climate change on the Utilitys electricity and natural gas businesses;
 changes in customer demand for electricity and natural gas resulting from unanticipated population growth or decline, general economic and financial market conditions, changes in technology including the development of alternative energy sources, or other reasons;
 operating performance of the Utilitys Diablo Canyon nuclear generating facilities (Diablo Canyon), the occurrence of unplanned outages at Diablo Canyon, or the temporary or permanent cessation of operations at Diablo Canyon;
 the ability of the Utility to maintain the cost efficiencies it has recognized from the completed initiatives to improve its business processes and customer service and the ability of the Utility to identify and successfully implement additional cost-efficiency measures;
 whether the Utilitys planned capital investment projects are completed within authorized cost amounts;
 the impact of changes in federal or state laws, or their interpretation, on energy policy and the regulation of utilities and their holding companies;
 the impact of changing wholesale electric or gas market rules, including the California Independent System Operators new rules to restructure the California wholesale electricity market;
 how the CPUC administers the conditions imposed on PG&E Corporation when it became the Utilitys holding company;
 the extent to which PG&E Corporation or the Utility incur costs and liabilities in connection with litigation that are not recoverable through rates, from third parties, or through insurance recoveries;
 the ability of PG&E Corporation and/or the Utility to access capital markets and other sources of credit;
 the impact of environmental laws and regulations and the costs of compliance and remediation;
 the effect of municipalization, direct access, community choice aggregation, or other forms of bypass; and
 other risks and factors disclosed in PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys  SEC reports.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


