FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20080708142430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
415-267-7000
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers, Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On July 8, 2008, William T. Morrow, President and Chief Executive Officer, and a member of the Board of Directors of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), a subsidiary of PG&E Corporation, informed PG&E Corporation and the Utility that he is resigning from his positions at the Utility effective August 31, 2008, to pursue opportunities to re-enter the international technology and telecom industry.  A copy of the related press release is attached to this report as exhibit 99.
Mr. Morrow initially informed PG&E Corporation and the Utility that he was considering leaving the Utility in February 2009.  Given the Utilitys desire to remain focused on its business priorities, Mr. Morrow and the Utility agreed that his resignation would be effective August 31, 2008.  The Utility will continue to pay him amounts equal to his base salary until January 31, 2009 and he will be entitled to participate in the PG&E Corporation 2008 Short-Term Incentive Plan at his target participation rate. The restricted stock and performance shares granted to him under PG&E Corporations Long-Term Incentive Plan will continue to vest as if he had remained employed through January 31, 2009.  Any shares of restricted stock and performance shares that would not become vested in the ordinary course as of January 31, 2009 will be forfeited.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
The following exhibit is being furnished, and is not deemed to be filed:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
July 8, 2008
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PG&E CORPORATIONS PETER DARBEE TO ASSUME ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITY AS CEO OF PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
(San Francisco, CA)  PG&E Corporation (NYSE:PCG) announced today that Peter A. Darbee, Chairman, CEO and President, will assume the additional duties of CEO and President of Pacific Gas and Electric Company effective upon approval from the California Public Utilities Commission.
The assumption of the leadership role at Pacific Gas and Electric Company results from the departure of William T. Morrow who informed the company he is leaving to pursue opportunities to re-enter the international technology and telecom sector.
 
Peter Darbees assumption of the chief executive responsibilities of Pacific Gas and Electric Company recognizes that our current corporate focus is built around optimizing the financial and operational performance of our core utility unit, said C. Lee Cox, lead director of PG&E Corporation and Chairman of Pacific Gas and Electric Company.  With oversight for the utilitys business plan and execution, this enables Peter to direct his principal leadership focus toward ensuring that PG&E remains locked in on taking the next steps necessary to fulfill shareholder and customer objectives, Cox added.
Bill Morrow is an executive of exceptional talents and abilities, said Darbee.  We thank him for his contributions in helping PG&E pursue its vision of being the leading utility in the United States, and we wish him success in his future endeavors, Darbee added.
PG&E said that John S. Jack Keenan will continue to serve as the utilitys Chief Operating Officer and remain responsible for directing the companys operational activities.
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, a subsidiary of PG&E Corporation, is one of the largest combined natural gas and electric utilities in the United States. Based in San Francisco, with 20,000 employees, the company delivers some of the nations cleanest energy to 15 million people in northern and central California. For more information, visit
www.pge.com/about/
 
 


