FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20080529141349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
2008 Cost of Capital Proceeding
On May 29, 2008, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) adopted a uniform multi-year cost of capital mechanism for PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), and the other two California investor-owned electric utilities that will replace the annual cost of capital proceeding.  Under the adopted mechanism, the utilities are required to file full cost of capital applications by April 20 of every third year, beginning on April 20, 2010.
Under the decision, the Utilitys 2008 cost of capital (including an 11.35% return on equity) will be maintained through 2010, unless the automatic adjustment mechanism described below is triggered. The Utilitys 2008 capital structure (including a 52% equity component) is authorized through 2010.  The decision permits the utilities to apply for an adjustment to either the cost of capital or the capital structure sooner based on extraordinary circumstances.
The cost of capital mechanism uses an interest rate index, the 12-month October through September average of the Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) Aa utility bond index (for utilities rated AA or higher) or the Moodys Baa utility bond index (for utilities rated BBB or lower), to trigger changes in the authorized cost of debt, preferred stock, and equity.  In any year in which the 12-month October through September average for the applicable index increases or decreases by more than 100 basis points (the deadband) from the benchmark, the cost of equity will be adjusted by one-half of the difference between the applicable 12-month average and the benchmark.  In addition, if the mechanism is triggered, the costs of long-term debt and preferred stock will be adjusted to reflect the actual August month-end embedded costs in that year and forecasted interest rates for variable long-term debt and any new long-term debt and preferred stock forecasted to be issued in the coming year.  Finally, the 12-month October through September average of the applicable index which triggered the adjustment will become the new benchmark.
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 


