FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20081230180843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Election of New Director
 
On December 29, 2008, elected Forrest E. Miller to serve as a director of PG&E Corporation and the Utility, effective upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissions approval of Mr. Millers application for authorization to hold interlocking positions as a director of the Utility and as an officer of AT&T, Inc.  Mr. Miller currently serves as Group PresidentCorporate Strategy and Development of AT&T.
the Boards of Directors of PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility)
Non-employee directors are entitled to receive the following compensation: (1) an annual retainer of $55,000, (2) equity awards valued at $90,000, consisting of $45,000 in restricted stock and $45,000 in either stock options or restricted stock units to be awarded under the formula award provisions of the PG&E Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan in March of each year, and (3) per-meeting fees of $1,750 for each Board meeting attended.
Under PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys Corporate Governance Guidelines, at least 75% of each Board is required to be composed of independent directors, defined as directors who (1) are neither current nor former officers or employees of, nor consultants to, PG&E Corporation or its subsidiaries, (2) are neither current nor former officers or employees of any other corporation on whose board of directors any officer of PG&E Corporation serves as a member, and (3) otherwise meet the definition of independence set forth in the applicable stock exchange rules.  The composition of PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys respective Boards of Directors continues to meet the Corporate Governance Guidelines.
any relationship or related transaction with PG&E Corporation or the Utility that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Miller was selected as a director of PG&E Corporation or of the Utility.  Mr. Miller does not have
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On December 29, 2008, the Boards of Directors of PG&E Corporation and the Utility .  Under PG&E Corporations Bylaws, the authorized number of directors may not be less than 7 or more than 13, but within that range the Board of Directors may set the exact number of directors by an amendment to the Bylaws.  PG&E Corporations Bylaws were amended to increase the authorized number of directors from 9 to 10, effective January 1, 2009.  Under the Utilitys Bylaws, the authorized number of directors may not be less than 9 nor more than 17, but within that range the Board of Directors may set the exact number of directors by an amendment to the Bylaws.  ctors from 9 to 10, effective January 1, 2009.  The text of the amendment to PG&E Corporations Bylaws is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and the text of the amendment to the Utilitys Bylaws is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
adopted resolutions to set the number of directors on each respective Board
The Utilitys Bylaws were amended to increase the authorized number of dire
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

. .
Exhibit 99.1
1.           .  As stated in paragraph I of Article Third of this Corporations Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors of this Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than seven (7) nor more than thirteen (13).  The exact number of directors shall be ten (10) until changed, within the limits specified above, by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Number

.. .
Exhibit 99.2
1.          The Board of Directors of this Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than nine (9) nor more than seventeen (17).  The exact number of directors shall be ten (10) until changed, within the limits specified above, by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Number.  


