FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20080107172128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
1
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On January 7, 2008, PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), announced that the Utilitys Board of Directors had elected John S. Keenan as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Utility effective January 1, 2008.  Mr. Keenan will continue to report to William T. Morrow, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Utility.  Mr. Keenan joined the Utility in December 2005 as Senior Vice President, Generation and Chief Nuclear Officer.  Before joining the Utility, Mr. Keenan was employed by Progress Energy, an energy company headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, that owns two electric and gas utilities in the Carolinas and Florida.  From November 2003 to December 2005 Mr. Keenan served as Vice President, Fossil Generation for Progress Energy and from May 1998 to November 2003 he served as Vice President of Progress Energys Brunswick Nuclear Power Plant.
Mr. Keenans compensation includes a base salary of $500,000, effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Keenan also will continue to be eligible to participate in the PG&E Corporation Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) with a target participation rate equal to 55% of his annual base salary, or $275,000.  Maximum awards under the STIP equal two times the target amount.  Actual STIP awards are determined by the Compensation Committee of the PG&E Corporation Board of Directors (Committee) based on the extent to which certain pre-established performance criteria are met.  Mr. Keenan also will continue to be eligible to receive an award under the PG&E Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) as of the first business day of March 2008.  The Committee has previously approved LTIP value ranges for 2008 awards of $700,000 (minimum), $1,000,000 (target), and $1,400,000 (maximum) for officers at Mr. Keenans level.  Actual LTIP awards will be approved by the Committee in February 2008.
Mr. Keenan is entitled to participate in other benefits generally provided to Utility employees.  In addition, as an executive officer, Mr. Keenan is entitled to receive benefits available to other Utility executive officers, including an annual perquisite allowance of $25,000, participation in the PG&E Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (which provides retirement benefits in excess of the pension benefits that would otherwise be payable under the Utilitys defined benefit pension plan), and participation in the PG&E Corporation Supplemental Retirement Savings Plan (under which a participant may elect to defer compensation and under which PG&E Corporation makes matching contributions credited to the participants account to the extent such matching contributions could not be made under PG&E Corporations 401(k) savings plan due to legal limitations).
Mr. Keenan does not have any relationship or related transaction with PG&E Corporation or the Utility that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 401(d) or Item 404(a) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD
As a follow up to PG&E Corporations webcast investor conference call held on December 21, 2007, attached as Exhibit 99 is the Utilitys current capital expenditure outlook detailing forecasted capital expenditures (2007-2011) among the following categories: common plant, SmartMeterprogram (advanced electric and gas meter infrastructure), gas transmission, electric transmission, generation, and distribution.
TM
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being furnished, and is not deemed to be filed:
 
Exhibit 99  Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Capital Expenditure Outlook (2007-2011)
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Exhibit No.                                            Description of Exhibit
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
Exhibit 99
to Form 8-K dated 1/7/08
 
 
 
See next page for discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
 
1
 
 
 
The Utilitys capital expenditure outlook set forth above, the assumptions underlying the outlook, and managements previously disclosed guidance for PG&E Corporations future earnings per share from operations (which guidance assumes the realization of the capital expenditure outlook among other assumptions) are forward-looking statements which are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which are outside of management's control. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
the Utilitys ability to timely recover costs through rates and manage capital and expense costs within authorized levels;
the outcome of regulatory proceedings, including pending and future ratemaking proceedings at the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission;
the adequacy and price of electricity and natural gas supplies, and the ability of the Utility to manage and respond to the volatility of the electricity and natural gas markets;
the effect of weather, storms, earthquakes, fires, floods, disease, other natural disasters, explosions, accidents, mechanical breakdowns, acts of terrorism, and other events or hazards on the Utilitys facilities and operations, its customers, and third parties on which the Utility relies;
the potential impacts of climate change on the Utilitys electricity and natural gas business;
changes in customer demand for electricity and natural gas resulting from unanticipated population growth or decline, general economic and financial market conditions, changes in technology including the development of alternative energy sources, or other reasons;
operating performance of the Utilitys Diablo Canyon nuclear generating facilities (Diablo Canyon), the occurrence of unplanned outages at Diablo Canyon, or the temporary or permanent cessation of operations at Diablo Canyon;
whether the Utility is able to maintain the cost efficiencies it has recognized from the completed initiatives to improve its business processes and customer service and whether the Utility is able to identify and successfully implement additional cost-savings measures;
whether the Utility is able to achieve the CPUCs energy efficiency targets and timely recognize any incentives the Utility may earn;
whether the Utilitys planned capital investment projects are timely completed within authorized cost amounts;
the impact of changes in federal or state laws, or their interpretation, on energy policy and the regulation of utilities and their holding companies;
the impact of changing wholesale electric or gas market rules, including the California Independent System Operators new rules to restructure the California wholesale electricity market;
how the CPUC administers the conditions imposed on PG&E Corporation when it became the Utilitys holding company;
the extent to which PG&E Corporation or the Utility incurs costs and liabilities in connection with litigation that are not recoverable through rates, from third parties, or through insurance recoveries;
the ability of PG&E Corporation and/or the Utility to access capital markets and other sources of credit;
the impact of environmental laws and regulations and the costs of compliance and remediation;
the effect of municipalization, direct access, community choice aggregation, or other forms of bypass, and
other risks and factors disclosed in PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys SEC reports, including those risk factors incorporated by reference into the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
2


