FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20081106091510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
On November 6, 2008, PG&E Corporation issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 announcing its financial results and the financial results of its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.  Additional supplemental information relating to PG&E Corporation and the Utility is attached as Exhibit 99.2.  Much of this information is derived from PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, to be filed by PG&E Corporation and the Utility with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and should be read in conjunction with such Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report also will be posted on the Investors section of PG&E Corporations website at www.pgecorp.com. 
 
In order to provide investors with a measure that reflects the underlying financial performance of the business and offers investors a basis on which to compare performance from one period to another, PG&E Corporation presents results and guidance on an earnings from operations basis, which excludes items that, in managements judgment, are not reflective of the normal course of operations.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The information included in Exhibit 99.2 is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01, and is deemed to be furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
The following exhibits are being furnished, and are not deemed to be filed:
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
 
 

 
 
(San Francisco)  PG&E Corporations (NYSE:PCG) consolidated net income reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) was $304 million, or $0.83 cents per share, in the third quarter ended September 30, 2008, compared with $278 million, or $0.77 cents per share, in the same quarter of 2007.
The year-over-year difference in earnings is due primarily to an increase of 6 cents per share in the latest quarter reflecting a higher authorized capital investment in utility subsidiary Pacific Gas and Electric Company.
 PG&E delivered solid third quarter financial results, notwithstanding the recent economic uncertainty and market volatility, said Peter A. Darbee, Chairman, CEO and President of PG&E Corporation. Despite the challenges in the financial markets, we have had ongoing access to capital and over the past few weeks, we have placed more than $900 million of long-term debt, which can be used to fund capital expenditures. These investments will enable us to grow our business and continue to improve services for our customers, he said.
Looking ahead, our target remains an 8 percent compound annual growth rate in earnings per share through 2011. This outlook assumes that the current unsettled conditions impacting the economy and capital markets will return to normal, Darbee said. We continue to see opportunities to build value, and we are focused on ensuring that PG&E remains well positioned to execute on its strategy in the current environment.
 
Page 1 of 4
EARNINGS GUIDANCE
 
PG&E Corporations previous guidance for 2008 earnings from operations is unchanged at $2.90-$3.00 per share. PG&E Corporation is reaffirming its guidance for 2009 earnings from operations in the range of $3.15-$3.25 per share.
EPS guidance for 2008 and 2009 assumes that PG&E Corporations Pacific Gas and Electric Company utility subsidiary maintains a ratemaking capital structure of 52 percent equity, that it maintains its CPUC- authorized return on equity of 11.35 percent and achieves at least a 12 percent return on equity on its FERC jurisdictional assets, while growing its asset base in line with its forecast, that it earns sufficient incentive revenues for energy efficiency achievements with an anticipated CPUC decision before the end of 2008, and that the Utility realizes planned operational and cost efficiencies.  In addition, the targeted EPS growth rate from 2007 through 2011 assumes that a combination of additional capital expenditures beyond the level included in the Utilitys base capital expenditure forecast, energy efficiency incentive revenues, and additional operational and cost efficiencies are achieved.
G&E Corporation discloses historical financial results and bases guidance on earnings from operations in order to provide a measure that allows investors to compare the underlying financial performance of the business from one period to another, exclusive of items that management believes do not reflect the normal course of operations. Earnings from operations are not a substitute or alternative for consolidated net income presented in accordance with GAAP (see the accompanying financial tables for a reconciliation of results and guidance based on earnings from operations to results and guidance based on consolidated net income in accordance with GAAP). There were no differences between earnings from operations and consolidated net income as reported in accordance with GAAP for the three month periods ended September 30, 2008 or 2007.
    P
Supplemental Financial Information:
 
 
Page 2 of 4
 
Conference Call with the Financial Community to Discuss Results:
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding managements guidance for PG&E Corporations 2008 and 2009 earnings per share from operations and targeted compound annual growth rate for earnings per share from operations over the 2007-2011 outlook period that are based on current expectations and various assumptions which management believes are reasonable. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of management's control.  Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
Page 3 of 4
Page 4 of 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60;                                                
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Earnings from Operations to Consolidated Net Income in Accordance with GAAP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
 
 
 
Management's guidance for PG&E Corporations 2008 and 2009 EPS from operations constitute forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and various assumptions which management believes are reasonable.  These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of managements control.  Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(continued): PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60;                                               
1.    Deliver on Earnings Per Share (EPS) goals
2.    Improve system reliability
3.    Identify and capture operating efficiencies
4.    Focus on customer service and satisfaction
5.    Ensure workforce readiness and alignment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Earnings from Operations to Consolidated Net Income in Accordance with GAAP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: PG&E Corporation Share Statistics
Third Quarter 2008 vs. Third Quarter 2007
(shares in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITIONS OF 2008 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE METRICS FROM TABLE 6:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
 
Management's statements regarding 2008 and 2009 guidance for earnings from operations per common share for PG&E Corporation, estimated rate base for 2008 and 2009, and general sensitivities for 2008 and 2009 earnings, constitute forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions which management believes are reasonable, including that Pacific Gas and Electric Company earns its authorized rate of return. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
 
 
 
Table 8 (continued): PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
 
 
 
Table 9: Rate Base - Pacific Gas and Electric Company
The rate base estimates for 2008 and 2009 and the forecast of capital expenditures that the estimates are based on are forward-looking statements that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including whether the forecasted expenditures will be made or will be made within the time periods assumed.  Actual results may differ materially.  For a discussion of the factors that may affect future results, see Table 8.
 
 
 
Table 10: General Earnings Sensitivities for 2008 and 2009
PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company
 
 
These general earnings sensitivities that may affect 2008 and 2009 earnings are forward-looking statements that are based on various assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  Actual results may differ materially.  For a discussion of the factors that may affect future results, see Table 8.
 
 
 
Table 11: Cash Flow Sources and Uses
Year-to-Date 2008
PG&E Corporation Consolidated
(in millions)
Source:    PG&E Corporations Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Table 12: PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Consolidated Cash Position
Third Quarter 2008 vs. Third Quarter 2007
(in millions)
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
 
Table 13: PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Long-Term Debt
Third Quarter 2008 vs. Year-End 2007
(in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company Repayment Schedule and Interest Rates - Long-Term Debt and Energy Recovery Bonds as of September 30, 2008
(in millions, except interest rates)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source:    PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Docket Numbers of Selected Regulatory Cases
 
 
 
Table 15 (continued): Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Docket Numbers of Selected Regulatory Cases
 
 
Discussion of these regulatory cases is included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
 
 


