FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20100301130008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 1, 2010, members of senior management of PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) will host an Investor Conference in New York City, at which they will meet with investment professionals and make a webcast presentation using the materials attached hereto as Exhibit 99.  In the presentation, management will discuss various aspects of the Utilitys operations, reaffirm guidance for PG&E Corporations earnings per share from operations of $3.35 to $3.50 for 2010 and $3.65 to $3.85 for 2011, and discuss other financial projections and the assumptions upon which the projections are based.  These materials also will be used for investor meetings to be held on March 3 and 4, 2010 during the UBS Natural Gas, Electric Power & Coal Conference to be held in Dallas, Texas.  These materials and the March 1, 2010 webcast presentation can be accessed through the Investors section of PG&E Corporations website at .  The information included in Exhibit 99 is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01, and is deemed to be furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K.
www.pgecorp.com
 
In order to provide investors with a measure that reflects the underlying financial performance of the business and offers investors a basis on which to compare performance from one period to another, PG&E Corporation presents results and guidance on an earnings from operations basis, which excludes items that are not reflective of the normal course of operations.  Earnings from operations are not a substitute or alternative for income available for common shareholders presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  See the financial tables included in the materials attached as Exhibit 99 for a reconciliation of guidance based on earnings from operations to guidance based on income available for common shareholders in accordance with GAAP.   Managements guidance for PG&E Corporations 2010 and 2011 earnings per share from operations constitute forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and various assumptions that management believes are reasonable. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of management's control. Actual results may differ materially. See the third slide included in the materials attached as Exhibit 99 for a list of some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
The following exhibit is being furnished, and is not deemed to be filed:
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


