FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20100913152751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Community Relief and Restoration Fund Related to Explosion and Fires in San Bruno, California
not covered by other insurance (or for which insurance proceeds have not yet been made available), (2) help restore the community by rebuilding or replacing public property damaged or destroyed in the accident, such as parks, trees, and schools, and (3) pay for certain costs incurred by emergency responders and government services to respond to the fire.  The relief fund is not intended to cover any claims for personal injury or wrongful death, which would be addressed outside of the relief fund.
On September 12, 2010, the Boards of Directors of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) and its parent holding company, PG&E Corporation, approved the establishment of a relief fund of up to $100 million to assist eligible residents and the community of San Bruno, California that have been affected by the September 9, 2010 rupture of a 30-inch natural gas transmission pipeline owned and operated by the Utility.  The relief fund will be used to cover various costs relating to the San Bruno event, including costs to (1) cover affected residents expenses and property damage that are
The Utility maintains liability insurance for damages in the approximate amount of $992 million in excess of a $10 million deductible.  The Utility believes that most of the costs relating to the San Bruno event will be covered by this insurance, although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate amount that will be recovered.
 
As calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), it is expected that the estimated costs associated with the San Bruno event, including costs associated with the relief fund, will negatively affect PG&E Corporations consolidated income available for common shareholders for the three and nine months ending September 30, 2010 and for the year ending December 31, 2010.  When calculating PG&E Corporations earnings from operations, which is not calculated in accordance with GAAP, it is expected that the estimated costs associated with the event will be excluded as an item impacting comparability due to the extraordinary circumstances.
For more information, the Utilitys press release issued on September 13, 2010 is attached as an Exhibit to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 13, 2010
CONTACT:  PG&E Media Relations (415) 973-5930
SAN BRUNO, Calif.  Pacific Gas and Electric Co. (PG&E) today announced the creation of the Rebuild San Bruno Fund, which will make available up to $100 million for the residents and city of San Bruno to help recover from last Thursdays tragic event.
PG&E Corporation Chairman, CEO and President Peter Darbee and Pacific Gas and Electric Company President Chris Johns met with San Bruno Mayor Jim Ruane and San Bruno residents to announce the fund and pledge their commitment to rebuilding San Bruno, which includes covering the citys costs associated with its response to the event.
We know that no amount of money can ever make up for whats been lost, said Darbee. This program is just one piece of our promise that PG&E will live up to its commitment to help rebuild this community and help the people of San Bruno rebuild their lives.
To administer these funds on behalf of the company, PG&E will partner with government officials, community leaders and organizations, including the American Red Cross and the United Way of the Bay Area.
Funds will be used to provide both immediate and long-term support to San Bruno residents and the city for three primary purposes:
PG&E today provided San Bruno officials with an initial check for $3 million to help compensate the city for its estimated expenses incurred to date. The company is also taking immediate steps to provide assistance to affected residents. For residents in the affected area, PG&E will provide disbursements of $15,000, $25,000, or $50,000 per household depending on the extent of damage incurred.
Residents are not being asked to waive any potential claims in order to receive these funds. Also, these funds are being provided in addition to the companys ongoing provision of funds to ensure affected residents continue to have access to temporary housing and other basic necessities.
 
 
 
We are here today, and well continue to be here, said Johns. We are going to be here as long as it takes and do whatever it takes to help the people and the city of San Bruno rebuild their lives and their community.
PG&E, a subsidiary of (NYSE: PCG), is one of the largest combined natural gas and electric utilities in the United States. Based in San Francisco, with 20,000 employees, the company delivers some of the nation's cleanest energy to 15 million people in Northern and Central California. For more information, visit .
PG&E Corporation
http://www.pge.com/about/newsroom/
 
 
 


