FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20100804091408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
On August 4, 2010, PG&E Corporation issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 announcing its financial results and the financial results of its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.  Additional supplemental information relating to PG&E Corporation and the Utility is attached as Exhibit 99.2.  Much of this information is derived from PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, to be filed by PG&E Corporation and the Utility with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and should be read in conjunction with such Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report also will be posted on the Investors section of PG&E Corporations website at www.pgecorp.com. 
 
In order to provide investors with a measure that reflects the underlying financial performance of the business and offers investors a basis on which to compare performance from one period to another, PG&E Corporation presents results and guidance on an earnings from operations basis, which excludes items that are not reflective of the normal course of operations.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The information included in Exhibit 99.2 is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01, and is deemed to be furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
The following exhibits are being furnished, and are not deemed to be filed:
 
 
 
-2-
 
Dated:           August 4, 2010
 
-3-
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
(San Francisco)  PG&E Corporations (NYSE: PCG) net income after dividends on preferred stock (also called income available for common shareholders) was $333 million, or $0.86 per share, in the second quarter ended June 30, 2010, as reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  This compares with $388 million, or $1.02 per share in the same period last year, which included $0.19 per share reflecting the net positive impact of one-time items.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, PG&E Corporations earnings from operations, which exclude one-time items, were $353million, or $0.91 per share, in the second quarter of 2010.  In the same period last year, earnings from operations were $315 million, or $0.83 per share.
 
 
The quarter-over-quarter increase in earnings from operations primarily reflects higher authorized revenues associated with additional capital investments in Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) core infrastructure and a number of smaller net positive items.
 
 PG&Es financial results for the year to date are on track with the companys plans, said Peter A. Darbee, Chairman, CEO, and President of PG&E Corporation. We are reaffirming guidance for earnings from operations for 2010 and 2011, as we continue to focus on delivering clean, safe, and reliable service at a reasonable cost.
 
Earnings Guidance
 
PG&E Corporation reaffirms its previous guidance for earnings from operations in the range of $3.35-$3.50 per share for 2010 and $3.65-$3.85 per share for 2011.
 
Guidance is based on various assumptions, including that the Utility maintains a
ratemaking capital structure of 52 percent common equity and achieves a return on equity of at least 11.35 percent, while growing its asset base and achieving other financial objectives consistent with ranges provided at the companys March 2010 Investor Conference.
 
Guidance for 2010 earnings from operations excludes the one-time costs associated with support for a statewide ballot initiative associated with the June 2010 Election and the tax impact of the federal healthcare bill enacted this year.  These one-time items are expected to impact total GAAP earnings by $0.17 per share for the year.
 
PG&E Corporation discloses historical financial results and bases guidance on
earnings from operations in order to provide a measure that allows investors to compare
the underlying financial performance of the business from one period to another, exclusive
of items that management believes do not reflect the normal course of operations. Earnings
from operations are not a substitute or alternative for consolidated net income presented in
accordance with GAAP (see the accompanying financial tables for a reconciliation of
results and guidance based on earnings from operations to results and guidance based on
consolidated net income in accordance with GAAP).
 
 
Supplemental Financial Information:
 
 
Conference Call with the Financial Community to Discuss Second Quarter Results:
This press release and the tables contain forward-looking statements regarding managements guidance for PG&E Corporations 2010 and 2011 earnings per share from operations that are based on current expectations and various assumptions that management believes are reasonable. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of managements control. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Earnings from Operations to Consolidated Income Available for Common Stock in Accordance with GAAP
 
 
 
 
 
 
PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
Management's guidance for PG&E Corporations 2010 and 2011 EPS from operations constitute forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions that management believes are reasonable. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of managements control. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially see the factors listed in the attached press release and the discussion of risk factors in PG&E Corporations and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
   Improve reliability
   Improve safety and human performance
   Deliver on budget, on plan, and on purpose
   Drive customer satisfaction
   Champion effective regulatory and legislative policies
 
 
Table 3: Reconciliation of Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Earnings from Operations to Consolidated Income Available for Common Stock in Accordance with GAAP
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: PG&E Corporation Share Statistics
Second Quarter, 2010 vs. 2009
(shares in millions, except per share amounts)
 
Source:  PG&E Corporations Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINITIONS OF 2010 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE METRICS FROM TABLE 6:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management's statements regarding guidance for earnings from operations per common share for PG&E Corporation and general earnings sensitivities, constitute forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and assumptions that management believes are reasonable, including that the Utility earns its authorized rate of return. These statements and assumptions are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of managements control. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
 
 
Table 8 (continued): PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
 
 
 
Table 9: General Earnings Sensitivities
PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company
 
These general earnings sensitivities that may affect 2010 and 2011 earnings are forward-looking statements that are based on various assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  Actual results may differ materially.  For a discussion of the factors that may affect future results, see Table 8.
 
 
 
Table 10: Cash Flow Sources and Uses
Year-to-Date 2010
PG&E Corporation Consolidated
(in millions)
Source:  PG&E Corporations Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Table 11: PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Consolidated Cash Position
Second Quarter, 2010 vs. 2009
(in millions)
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PG&E Corporations and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
Table 12: PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Long-Term Debt
Second Quarter 2010 vs. Year-End 2009
(in millions)
 
 
 
Table 13: PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's Repayment Schedule and Interest Rates - Long-Term Debt and Energy Recovery Bonds as of June 30, 2010
(in millions, except interest rates)
 
 
 
Table 14: Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Docket Numbers of Selected Regulatory Cases
 
 
 
 
Table 14 (continued): Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Docket Numbers of Selected Regulatory Cases
 
 
 
 
Table 14 (continued): Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Docket Numbers of Selected Regulatory Cases
Most of these regulatory cases are discussed in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, or PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source:  PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in PG&E Corporation's and Pacific Gas and Electric Company's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.


