FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20100910122212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Explosion and Fires in San Bruno, California
On September 9, 2010, shortly after 6:00 P.M. (Pacific Daylight Time), an explosion occurred in San Bruno, California, a primarily residential area located in Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) service territory just south of San Francisco.  Although the exact cause of the explosion has not been determined, a 30-inch steel gas transmission pipeline owned and operated by the Utility in this area was ruptured.  Fires ignited and spread throughout the neighborhood.  At a press conference that occurred at approximately 8:00 a.m. on September 10, 2010, various agency officials have reported that as of 8:00 a.m., the fire has been about 75 % contained.  They also have reported that 38 homes have been destroyed and approximately 7 homes have been significantly damaged.  At least 4 fatalities have been reported and emergency crews are continuing to search the area.  The number of people who have suffered injuries has not yet been determined.  The California Governors office has declared a state of emergency in San Mateo County, where San Bruno is located, to mobilize state emergency services and resources.
The Utility is committed to working with various regulatory agencies, including the National Transportation Safety Board and the California Public Utilities Commission, to investigate the cause of the explosion and fire.  The Utility maintains liability insurance for damages caused by fire in the approximate amount of $992 million in excess of a $10 million deductible.  Depending on the final outcome of the investigation, and if insurance recoveries are unavailable or insufficient to cover the losses, PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
For more information, the Utilitys public statement issued on September 9, 2010 and its most recent press release issued on September 10, 2010 are attached as Exhibits to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company Public Statement Issued September 9, 2010.
 
 
 
 
Our thoughts go out to everyone affected by this terrible situation.
 
 
The priority right now is to help make the area safe. 
 
 
We have crews on the scene and are working with emergency officials. 
 
 
Though a cause has yet to be determined, we know that a PG&E gas transmission line was ruptured.  If it is ultimately determined that we were responsible for the cause of the incident, we will take accountability.
 
 
Meanwhile, we are working with the Red Cross to provide emergency shelter for those in need.   Anyone in need of assistance or shelter can contact the Red Cross at 1-888-443-5722 (888-4-HELP-BAY).
 
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 10, 2010
CONTACT:  PG&E Media Relations - (415) 973-5930
PG&E CONTINUES RESPONSE EFFORTS AT SCENE OF SAN BRUNO FIRE
.  Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) crews worked through the night and continue to work this morning with emergency officials at the scene of yesterdays explosion and fire in San Bruno.
SAN BRUNO, Calif
On behalf of our 20,000 men and women, our thoughts and prayers go out to those who have been affected by yesterdays terrible tragedy, said PG&E President Chris Johns. I also want to express our appreciation to the hundreds of first responders and emergency services personnel who were on scene and who are assisting those in need.
PG&E crews are working to make the area safe, assess damage and restore service, where possible. PG&Es emergency operations center has been activated, and additional crews are ready to assist.
The damaged section of the 30-inch steel gas transmission pipeline has been isolated and gas flow has been stopped to the affected area.  Gas flow to the area gas distribution pipes has also been stopped.
As of 4 a.m., there were approximately 300 customers without gas service and about 700 customers who remained without electricity. Initially, PG&E cut electric service to 5,800 customers in the area for the safety of first responders.
PG&E crews will be walking the neighborhood with the Fire Department this morning to make sure it is safe to restore power, where possible. PG&E crews are also proactively surveying the gas transmission and distribution system to determine the extent of damage and ensure safety and begin restoration and repairs.
The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the federal agency responsible for investigating natural gas pipeline incidents, is expected to be on site today. NTSB will lead a comprehensive investigation and will be the principal source of information about the investigation as it progresses.
 
 
MORE
 
PG&E will cooperate fully with the NTSB and all other federal, state and local agencies in the effort to identify the cause of this accident. The company will take all necessary steps to resolve any PG&E-related issues identified through the investigation process, and will take all appropriate steps to assist those affected.
Meanwhile, the company is working with the Red Cross to provide emergency shelter for those in need. Anyone in need of assistance or shelter can contact the Red Cross at 1-888-443-5722 (888-4-HELP-BAY).
As part of its community outreach, PG&E will have staff on hand at the Red Cross evacuation centers to help people obtain needed help and services. The company is also coordinating an employee blood drive today to assist with the response to this incident.


