FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20110929110438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 29, 2011, PG&E Corporation announced that the position of Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development, currently held by Rand L. Rosenberg, will be eliminated effective October 31, 2011 as PG&E Corporation concentrates its resources on improving the utility operations of its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company.  Mr. Rosenberg is entitled to receive the severance benefits described in PG&E Corporations most recent proxy statement, subject to the terms of the PG&E Corporation Officer Severance Policy as described in the proxy statement.  Mr. Rosenbergs severance benefits will be funded entirely by PG&E Corporation shareholders.
Because Mr. Rosenberg has served continuously for at least five years and is at least 55 years of age, the PG&E Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) provides that Mr. Rosenbergs LTIP awards will continue to vest as if he had remained employed.  Mr. Rosenbergs LTIP awards consist of 3,698 shares of restricted stock, 26,399 restricted stock units, and 33,555 performance shares that will vest and become payable, if at all, in accordance with the original terms of the awards.  In addition, 32 shares of phantom stock awarded to Mr. Rosenberg under PG&E Corporations Executive Stock Ownership Program will vest and be settled in an equal number of shares of PG&E Corporation common stock.
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 


