FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20110415132914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Item 8.01 - Other Events
2011 Gas Transmission and Storage Rate Case
On April 14, 2011, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) issued a decision in Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) 2011 Gas Transmission and Storage (GT&S) rate case.  The decision approves the settlement agreement, known as the Gas Accord V Settlement Agreement (Gas Accord V), entered into among the Utility and other parties to determine the rates and terms and conditions of the Utilitys gas transmission and storage services for a four-year period beginning January 1, 2011.  The decision also resolves several objections raised by the other two California gas utilities.
The CPUC authorized a 2011 natural gas transmission and storage revenue requirement of $514 million, an increase of $52 million over the 2010 adopted revenue requirement.  With attrition increases, the Utilitys revenue requirements for 2012, 2013, and 2014 will be $541 million, $565 million, and $582 million, respectively.  The Utility also has been authorized to recover (through natural gas transmission and storage rates) revenue requirements for other costs, such as the cost of electricity used to operate natural gas compressor stations and other costs, that are determined in the Utilitys 2011 General Rate Case or other Utility regulatory proceedings.  Customer rates for the remainder of 2011 will be adjusted to allow the Utility to recover the authorized revenue requirements from January 1, 2011.
The decision also requires the Utility to file a semi-annual safety report, beginning October 1, 2011, with the CPUCs Energy Division and the CPUCs Consumer Protection and Safety Division to provide details about the Utilitys use of funds budgeted for pipeline safety, reliability and integrity projects and activities, including an explanation of whether the Utility has under-spent or over-spent funds.  The reports will provide CPUC staff with the necessary details to: (1) monitor what storage and pipeline-related safety, reliability, and integrity capital projects and maintenance activities are being undertaken by the Utility and the amounts spent on such activities, (2) determine whether projects that have been identified by the Utility with high risk assessments are being carried out or whether other higher-risk projects have been undertaken instead, (3) determine the Utilitys rationale for reprioritization of projects, and (4) monitor the status of the Utilitys compliance with federal regulations.
CPUC Resolution Regarding the Tax Relief Act
 
On April 14, 2011, the CPUC adopted a resolution establishing a one-way memorandum account for certain rate-regulated utilities, including the Utility, to record the net change in the cost of providing utility service associated with the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act signed into law in December of 2010 (Tax Relief Act).  For qualified property placed into service after September 8, 2010 and before January 1, 2012, the Tax Relief Act allows the Utility to take a tax deduction for the entire cost of its investment in the same year that the property was placed into service.  For qualified property placed into service in 2012 (as well as a portion of the investment on certain property placed into service in 2013 if construction had begun before January 1, 2013) the Utility may take a deduction for one-half of the cost of the investment in the same year that the property was placed into service with the remaining investment cost recovered over a normal depreciation period.  As a result of the accelerated tax depreciation the Utilitys federal tax payments are expected to be lower. The memorandum account established by the resolution allows the Utility to use the cash benefit for additional capital investments.  Specifically, the account will track: (1) the reduction in revenue requirements that is due to lower rate base resulting from deferred tax liabilities related to the accelerated federal tax depreciation, (2) the increase in revenue requirements associated with incremental capital investments that are made on behalf of Utility customers, and (3) other changes in revenue requirements attributable to other effects of the Tax Relief Act.
The memorandum account will be applicable to CPUC-jurisdictional assets only and is not expected to impact investments that have separate ratemaking treatment such as the Utilitys program to install an advanced metering system. The net benefits of the Tax Relief Act related to those separately funded projects will automatically flow to customers under existing balancing account mechanisms.  The memorandum account will be in effect for capital investments (other than those related to natural gas transmission operations) until 2014, the test year of the Utilitys next general rate case.  The memorandum account will be in effect for capital investments related to natural gas transmission operations until 2015, the test year for the Utilitys next gas transmission and storage rate case.  In each rate case, the CPUC will determine the disposition of the memorandum account.
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 


