FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120502083029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 
On May 2, 2012, PG&E Corporation will post on its website a news release disclosing its financial results and the financial results of its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.  PG&E Corporation also will hold a webcast conference call to discuss financial results and managements business outlook.  The news release contains information about how to access the webcast.  The slide presentation that will be used by management during the webcast includes an Appendix with supplemental information relating to PG&E Corporation and the Utility and is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.  The exhibits will be posted on PG&E Corporations website at under the Investors tab.
www.pgecorp.com
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The information included in the Exhibits to this report is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01, and is deemed to be furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
The following exhibits are being furnished, and are not deemed to be filed:
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:           May 2, 2012
 
 
 
 

 
 
(San Francisco)  PG&E Corporation's (NYSE: PCG) first quarter 2012 net income after dividends on preferred stock (also called "income available for common shareholders") was $233 million, or $0.56 per share, as reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). This compares with $199 million, or $0.50 per share, for the first quarter of 2011. Results for both periods reflect significant charges incurred in connection with the companys natural gas pipeline operations.
"Across PG&E, we continued to move ahead with efforts to improve operations and customer service, including further pipeline testing and validation work to affirm the safety of our gas system," said Chairman, CEO and President Tony Earley. Key accomplishments and milestones included a substantial contribution to the City of San Bruno, the completion of hearings on the proposed Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan, the introduction of new advanced technology to detect gas leaks, final approval of a SmartMeter opt-out choice, the proposal of a new economic development rate, and the launch of the "Green Button" web tool for customers. "These steps all support our broader effort to resolve PG&Es gas-related challenges, position the company for long-term success and restore relationships with customers and others."
GAAP results include items that management does not consider part of normal, ongoing operations (items impacting comparability), totaling $234 million pre-tax, or $0.33 per share. The items impacting comparability for the first quarter of 2012 relate to natural gas matters and environmental costs.
Costs for natural gas matters in the first quarter totaled $163 million on a pre-tax basis, or $0.23 per share. These included $104 million, or $0.15 per share, during the quarter for continuing work to validate safe pipeline operating pressures and conduct strength testing, as well as legal and other expenses related to the San Bruno pipeline accident. This brings the total costs for natural gas pipeline-related actions since the September 2010 accident to $650 million, all of which have been incurred at shareholders expense.
Total costs for gas matters in the first quarter also included the $70 million pre-tax, or $0.10 per share, contribution that the company made to the City of San Bruno. Also reflected in the total was the benefit of $11 million pre-tax, or $0.02 per share, of insurance recoveries for third-party liability, bringing the total recoveries to $110 million since the accident.
The company took no additional accruals for third-party liability or potential penalties in the first quarter. Provisions taken to date for third-party liability and potential penalties remain $375 million and $200 million, respectively, as previously reported. PG&E continues to expect that a significant portion of its third-party liability costs will be recovered through insurance.
Finally, first quarter GAAP results also reflect environmental costs of $71 million pre-tax, or $0.10 per share, primarily for water treatment solutions PG&E will provide to residents in connection with ongoing remediation work in Hinkley, California.
Earnings from Operations
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding items impacting comparability, PG&E Corporations earnings from operations for the first quarter were $372 million, or $0.89 per share. During the same period in 2011, earnings from operations were $230 million, or $0.58 per share.
The quarter-over-quarter difference primarily reflects several factors that negatively impacted last years first quarter. Most significantly, first quarter 2011 results did not include revenue from the 2011 General Rate Case and the Gas Transmission and Storage Case, which were awaiting regulatory approval. This represents $0.14 per share of the positive difference. Similarly, other factors affecting the first quarter of last year included higher storm-related costs and higher litigation and regulatory costs, which are reflected as positive differences of $0.07 per share and $0.05 per share, respectively.
Positive factors this year included an additional $0.05 per share from higher revenues from increased capital investments authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission, $0.02 per share in gas transmission revenues and $0.07 per share in other miscellaneous items. These were partially offset by $0.06 per share in higher spending on operational improvements during the quarter and $0.03 per share resulting from a greater number of common shares outstanding.
2012 Earnings Guidance
PG&E Corporation is maintaining its previously issued 2012 guidance range for non-GAAP earnings from operations of $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
On a GAAP basis, 2012 earnings guidance is now $1.80 to $2.49 per share, compared with the previous range of $1.88 to $2.67 per share. The guidance range for natural gas pipeline matters has been updated to reflect the $70 million contribution made to the City of San Bruno and the $11 million of proceeds from insurance recoveries for third-party liability during the quarter.
The company is maintaining its 2012 guidance range for pipeline-related costs of $450 million to $550 million pre-tax, with recent increases in legal expenses suggesting that total costs will trend toward the upper end of the range.
The company also is maintaining its guidance range for third-party liability claims of $0 to $225 million pre-tax for the year. This range represents the difference between the upper end of the company's estimated range for third-party liability of $600 million and the $375 million already accrued to date.
The company is updating its guidance range for environmental-related costs to $71 million to $100 million pre-tax for the year. The lower end of the range has been updated to reflect the first quarter charge related to the water treatment solutions at Hinkley.
Guidance is based on various current assumptions, including those described above. In addition, it assumes that PG&E Corporation will issue approximately $700 million of common stock in 2012, an increase of $100 million over the prior estimate, resulting primarily from the companys contribution to the City of San Bruno. Approximately $400 million of equity was issued during the first quarter. Other assumptions include the level of operating expenses, capital expenditures, authorized rate base, and return. As in 2011, guidance does not include any potential future insurance recoveries or penalties (other than those already accrued) or any potential punitive damages.
PG&E Corporation discloses historical financial results and provides guidance based on "earnings from operations" in order to provide a measure that allows investors to compare the underlying financial performance of the business from one period to another, exclusive of items that management believes do not reflect the normal course of operations. Earnings from operations are not a substitute or alternative for consolidated net income presented in accordance with GAAP (see the accompanying exhibits for a reconciliation of results and guidance based on earnings from operations to results and guidance based on consolidated net income in accordance with GAAP).
Supplemental Financial Information
In addition to the financial information accompanying this release, slides for today's conference call with the financial community have been furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission and are available on PG&E Corporation's web site at: .
http://www.pgecorp.com/news/press_releases/Release_Archive2012/120502press_release.shtml
Conference Call with the Financial Community to Discuss Financial Results
Today's call at 10:00 a.m., Eastern Time, is open to the public on a listen-only basis via webcast. Please visit for more information and instructions for accessing the webcast. The call will be archived on the website. Alternatively, a toll-free replay of the conference call may be accessed through 8:00 p.m., Eastern Time, Wednesday, May 16, by dialing (866) 415-9493.  To access the replay from an international location, please call (585) 419-6446.  For both domestic and international callers, the pin number 23820 is required to access the replay.
http://www.pgecorp.com/investors/investor_info/conference
 
 
 
 
This press release and exhibits contain forward-looking statements that relate to managements guidance for PG&E Corporations 2012 financial results and the various assumptions and estimates discussed above, including forecasts of costs related to natural gas pipeline matters, third-party liabilities associated with the San Bruno accident, environmental matters, and equity issuances, as well as assumptions about the level of operating expenses, capital expenditures, authorized rate base, and return. These statements, assumptions, and estimates reflect managements judgment and opinions and are necessarily subject to various risks and uncertainties, the realization or resolution of which may be outside of management's control. Actual results may differ materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include:
 
 
 
PG&E Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Income
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
First Quarter, 2012 vs. 2011
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Pacific Gas and Electric Company Earnings from Operations to Consolidated Income Available for Common Stock in Accordance with GAAP
First Quarter, 2012 vs. 2011
(in millions)
 
 
 
Key Drivers of PG&E Corporation Earnings per Common Share (EPS) from Operations
First Quarter, 2012 vs. 2011
($/Share, Diluted)
 
 
 
 
 
 
PG&E Corporation EPS Guidance
 
 
 
Actual financial results for 2012 may differ materially from the EPS guidance provided.  Please see the accompanying discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


