FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120515171644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
PG&E Corporation:
On May 14, 2012, PG&E Corporation held its annual meeting of shareholders.  At the meeting, the shareholders voted as indicated below on the following matters:
Each director nominee named above was elected a director of PG&E Corporation.
`
This proposal was approved.
This proposal was approved.
This shareholder proposal was not approved.
Broker non-votes occur when brokers or nominees do not exercise discretionary voting on certain matters because, under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, they are not allowed to vote on those matters without instructions from the beneficial owner of the shares.  Broker non-votes are counted when determining whether the necessary quorum of shareholders is present or represented at each annual meeting.
(1)
Pacific Gas and Electric Company:
On May 14, 2012, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) held its annual meeting of shareholders. At the annual meeting, the shareholders voted as indicated below on the following matters:
Each director nominee named above was elected a director of Pacific Gas and Electric Company.
This proposal was approved.
This proposal was approved.
Broker non-votes occur when brokers or nominees do not exercise discretionary voting on certain matters because, under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, they are not allowed to vote on those matters without instructions from the beneficial owner of the shares. Broker non-votes are counted when determining whether the necessary quorum of shareholders is present or represented at each annual meeting.
(1)
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


