FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120202131139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
Self-Report of Violations
On February 1, 2012, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) filed a report with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to inform the CPUC that the Utility had completed its system-wide review of the maps used to determine the leak survey schedule for the Utilitys natural gas distribution facilities. The Utilitys system-wide review was prompted by the Utilitys discovery in late December 2011 that 16 maps in Contra Costa County had not been considered in determining the leak survey schedule, as reported to the CPUC on December 30, 2011.  The system-wide review identified an additional 46 maps that had not been included in the leak survey schedule.  The additional 46 maps represent 0.2% of the Utilitys approximately 21,600 gas distribution system maps.  Some of the pipelines shown on these maps were placed in service as far back as 1939.  The Utility has completed the required leak surveys for the facilities identified in the additional 46 maps.  The Utility is still determining whether there were required leak surveys associated with these facilities that were missed in prior years.
 
Under federal and state regulations, distribution pipelines must be inspected every five years after being placed in service.  On January 27, 2012, the CPUCs Consumer Protection and Safety Division (CPSD) issued a citation to the Utility, including a fine of approximately $17 million, for violating these regulations with respect to the maps that were not included in the leak survey schedule, as reported by the Utility on December 30, 2011.  The Utilitys report indicated that some of the pipelines shown on these maps should have been inspected as far back as 1998.  In calculating the fine for each missed leak survey, the CPSD counted each month after the first missed leak survey date as a separate violation and used the maximum fine of $20,000 per violation.  The CPSD noted that it used the $20,000 maximum fine per violation because the violations were identified and corrected before January 1, 2012.
The citation was issued pursuant to the authority delegated to the CPSD by the CPUCs resolution, adopted on December 1, 2011, to enforce compliance by gas corporations with the CPUCs orders, rules and regulations, including federal regulations incorporated by reference into the CPUCs rules and orders, governing the design, construction, testing, maintenance, and operation of utility gas gathering, transmission, and distribution pipeline systems.  The resolution requires that each citation assess the maximum penalty amount, which increased on January 1, 2012 to $50,000 from $20,000 per violation. The resolution states that each day of an ongoing violation may be The resolution also established a requirement that Under the citation procedure, a gas corporation must pay the fine or appeal the citation within 10 days.  Fines are not recoverable through customer rates.
cited as a separate and distinct offense.
gas corporations notify the CPSD within 10 days after identifying or correcting violations and directed the CPSD to take into account whether a violation was self-reported as a factor in deciding whether to cite a violation.
On February 1, 2012, the Utility filed an appeal of the CPSDs January 27, 2012 citation with the CPUC as the Utility believes that the fine is excessive, both because the CPSD over-counted the number of violations and because the CPUC reserved to itself the discretion to adopt less than the maximum penalty, a discretion that the CPUC should exercise considering that the Utility self-reported the violations and no harm was caused.  Under the process adopted by the CPUC, an administrative law judge will be assigned to oversee the appeal and issue a proposed decision for consideration by the CPUC.
If the CPSD issued an additional citation and assessed a fine for the new self-reported violations using the same methodology that was used in the citation issued on January 27, 2012 and if the CPUC rejected the Utilitys challenge, the Utility would be required to pay a substantial fine.
In addition to the self-reports associated with missed leak surveys, the Utility has filed three other self-reports associated with an over-pressurized gas distribution line, a regulator station that was not properly removed, and a valve that was not properly maintained.   In connection with all of these self-reports the Utility is undertaking a system-wide review to determine if it has other similar issues.
CPUC Rulemaking Proceeding
On January 31, 2012, the CPUCs Division of Ratepayer Advocates, The Utility Reform Network, and other parties filed their comments on the Utilitys proposed pipeline safety enhancement plan being considered by the CPUC.  They have made various recommendations addressing cost recovery and ratemaking issues, including recommendations that the Utility be prohibited from recovering all or a portion of plan-related costs through rates and that the Utilitys rate of return on any authorized capital expenditures be reduced or limited to the costs of debt. 
The Utilitys rebuttal testimony is due on February 28, 2012 and evidentiary hearings are scheduled to commence on March 12, 2012 for two weeks.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


