FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120620175826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 20, 2012, the Board of Directors of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility) amended the Utilitys Bylaws to increase the authorized number of directors from twelve to thirteen and elected Anthony F. Earley, Jr., Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of PG&E Corporation, to serve as a director of the Utility, effective June 20, 2012.  (As previously reported, PG&E Corporation shareholders elected Mr. Earley to serve as a director of PG&E Corporation at the annual meeting held on May 14, 2012.)  Also on June 20, 2012, the Utilitys Board of Directors appointed Mr. Earley as the Chair of the Executive Committee of the Utilitys Board of Directors, effective June 20, 2012, replacing C. Lee Cox, who had been serving as interim Chair of the Utilitys Executive Committee and who will remain a member of the Committee.
The Utilitys Corporate Governance Guidelines require that at least 75% of the Board be composed of independent directors, defined as directors who (1) are neither current nor former officers or employees of, nor consultants to, PG&E Corporation, the Utility, or its subsidiaries, (2) are neither current nor former officers or employees of any other corporation on whose board of directors any officer of the Utility serves as a member, and (3) otherwise meet the definition of independence set forth in the applicable stock exchange rules.  The composition of the Utilitys Board of Directors currently meets the Corporate Governance Guidelines.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Earley was selected as a director of the Utility.  Mr. Earley does not have any relationship or related transaction with PG&E Corporation or the Utility that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
The text of the amendment to the Utilitys Bylaws increasing the authorized number of directors as described above is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Dated:           June 20, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
1.          The Board of Directors of this Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than nine (9) nor more than seventeen (17).  The exact number of directors shall be thirteen (13) until changed, within the limits specified above, by an amendment to this Bylaw duly adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Number.  
 
 


