FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120313152915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On March 12, 2012, the Consumer Protection and Safety Division (CPSD) of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) submitted two consultant reports in the CPUCs pending investigation pertaining to Pacific Gas and Electric Companys (Utility) safety record keeping practices for its natural gas transmission system, including the transmission pipeline, known as Line 132, that ruptured in San Bruno, California on September 9, 2010 (the San Bruno accident).  The primary objective of one of the reports was to provide a strategic review, analysis and assessment of records management practices within the Utilitys Gas Transmission Division before the San Bruno accident.  The other report addresses the engineering impact and implications of the Utilitys record keeping practices at a tactical and operational level.
The records management report concluded that the Utilitys record keeping practices have been deficient and have diminished pipeline safety.  The report identified a number of issues, including the lack of:
The report notes that the Utility is already aware that significant changes are required in its records management and administrative practice in order to address operational requirements highlighted by previous reports from the National Transportation Safety Board and the CPUCs independent review panel.  The report notes that the Utility has established a pipeline records integration program to address these matters and requested the CPUC to authorize the Utility to recover program costs of $222.8 million through customer rates.  The report notes that the scope and degree of the Utilitys proposals inform the Commission of the nature of the recordkeeping transformation and improvement that PG&E must undertake.  The report states that these costs are excessive, and that the consultants cannot support PG&Es request for them regardless of their total. (The Utilitys cost recovery request is included in its application for approval of its proposed pipeline safety enhancement plan submitted to the CPUC as directed by the CPUCs order instituting rulemaking proceeding to develop and adopt safety-related changes to the regulation of natural gas transmission pipelines in California.)
In the other report, the CPSDs engineering consultant stated that the investigation into record keeping issues related to engineering results in two basic conclusions:
 
 
 
In the first phase of the investigation, the CPUC has stated that it will determine (1) whether the Utilitys record keeping practices for its gas transmission pipeline system and its knowledge of its own gas transmission pipeline system (and, in particular, Line 132) were deficient and unsafe, and (2) whether the Utility thereby violated applicable law and safety standards.  The CPUC has stated that it will determine whether the San Bruno accident would have been preventable by the exercise of safe procedures and/or accurate and effective technical record keeping in compliance with the law.  The reports submitted by the CPSDs consultants do not allege specific violations of regulations or law.  Under the procedural schedule established for the proceeding, the Utilitys responses to the CPSDs reports are due on June 25, 2012, evidentiary hearings are scheduled to be held in September 2012, and a final decision is scheduled to be issued in February 2013.  If the CPUC finds that the Utility has violated any rule, regulation or law, it will schedule a second phase to assess penalties.
The CPUC also has initiated investigations pertaining to the Utilitys operation of its natural gas transmission pipeline system in or near locations of higher population density and in connection with the San Bruno accident.  In addition, the Utility has self-reported violations of various regulations and CPUC orders applicable to its natural gas operating practices.  If the CPUC determines that the Utility violated applicable law as a result of these matters, the CPUC may impose penalties on the Utility.
At December 31, 2011, PG&E Corporation and the Utilitys financial statements reflected a charge of $200 million for the minimum amount of penalties that were determined to be probable as a result of the CPUCs investigations and the Utilitys self-reported violations.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility were unable to estimate the reasonably possible amount of penalties in excess of the amount accrued at December 31, 2011, and noted that such amounts could be material.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility will consider relevant developments when they reassess estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of their financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2012.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


