FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120221130949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Election of New Director
 
On February 15, 2012, elected Fred J. Fowler to serve as a director of PG&E Corporation and the Utility, effective March 1, 2012.  Mr. Fowler also has been appointed to serve as a member of the Nuclear, Operations, and Safety Committee of PG&E Corporations Board.  A copy of the related press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
the Boards of Directors of PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility)
Non-employee directors are entitled to receive the following compensation: (1) an annual retainer of $55,000, (2) equity awards valued at $90,000, consisting of restricted stock units to be awarded under the formula award provisions of the PG&E Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan in May of each year, (3) a per-meeting fee of $1,750 for each Board or Committee meeting attended, except that members of the Audit Committees receive a per-meeting fee of $2,750, and (4) a per-meeting fee of $1,750 for each shareholder meeting attended that is not held on the same day as a Board meeting.
PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys Corporate Governance Guidelines require that at least 75% of each Board be composed of independent directors, defined as directors who (1) are neither current nor former officers or employees of, nor consultants to, PG&E Corporation or its subsidiaries, (2) are neither current nor former officers or employees of any other corporation on whose board of directors any officer of PG&E Corporation serves as a member, and (3) otherwise meet the definition of independence set forth in the applicable stock exchange rules.  The composition of PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys Board of Directors currently meet the Corporate Governance Guidelines.
any relationship or related transaction with PG&E Corporation or the Utility that would require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Fowler was selected as a director of PG&E Corporation or of the Utility.  Mr. Fowler does not have
Adoption of 2012 Officer Severance Policy
On February 15, 2012, the PG&E Corporation Board of Directors approved the 2012 Officer Severance Policy (2012 Severance Policy).  All new officers hired or promoted on or after March 1, 2012 will be eligible for benefits under the 2012 Severance Policy.  Other officers will remain subject to the existing PG&E Corporation Officer Severance Policy until February 17, 2015, to the extent that the 2012 Severance Policy would reduce such officers aggregate level of benefits.
Under the 2012 Severance Policy, changes to the non-change-in-control severance benefits include: (1) a revision to the cash severance formula, to one times the sum of the officers base salary and target short-term incentive payment at the time of termination, (2) a reduction in the maximum post-termination exercise period for stock options, to 12 months, (3) provision of a cash lump-sum payment approximately equal to 18 months worth of post-employment health care coverage instead of payment of the actual premiums, and (4) elimination of the payment of a pro-rated short-term incentive payment.
Changes to the benefits available upon termination in connection with a change in control of PG&E Corporation include: (1) a reduction in the severance payment formula, to two times the sum of base salary and target short-term incentive payment, (2) pro-ration, rather than full payment, of the short-term incentive award payout, (3) a change to the scope of officers who are eligible to receive change-in control-severance benefits, by adding officers of the Utility who are in compensation bands 1-2 (which includes Executive Vice Presidents), and limiting eligibility of PG&E Corporation officers to officers who are Senior Vice Presidents and above in compensation bands 1-2 (PG&E Corporation Senior Vice Presidents who are in compensation bands 3 and 4 are no longer eligible), and (4) adding post-employment career transition services and a cash lump-sum payment approximately equal to 18 months worth of post-employment health care coverage.  Under the terms of his offer letter previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, PG&E Corporations Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Anthony F. Earley, Jr., is not a participant in either the existing PG&E Corporation Officer Severance Policy or the 2012 Severance Policy.
Amendment of Post-Retirement Life Insurance Plan
On February 14, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the PG&E Corporation Board of Directors amended the Pacific Gas and Electric Company Post-Retirement Life Insurance Plan to, among other things, eliminate tax gross-up payments made to any plan participant who, at any time prior to payment, was a named executive officer (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K) of PG&E Corporation or the Utility.  This amendment will become effective on May 15, 2012.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
To accommodate the election of Mr. Fowler, on February 15, 2012, the Boards of Directors of PG&E Corporation and the Utility .  PG&E Corporations Bylaws state that the authorized number of directors may not be less than 7 nor more than 13, and the Utilitys Bylaws state that the authorized number of directors may not be less than 9 nor more than 17.  Each companys Bylaws permit the Board of Directors to amend the respective companys Bylaws to set the exact number of directors within the stated range.  The text of the amendment to PG&E Corporations Bylaws is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2, and the text of the amendment to the Utilitys Bylaws is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.3.
adopted resolutions to amend each companys respective Bylaws to increase the number of directors on each Board to 12, effective March 1, 2012
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
(San Francisco)  PG&E Corporation (NYSE:PCG) today announced the election of 40-year natural gas industry veteran Fred J. Fowler, 65, to its Board of Directors and to the Board of Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Fowler is the retired President and CEO of Spectra Energy Corp., formerly Duke Energy Gas. He is currently Chairman of the Board of Spectra Energy Partners, which owns extensive natural gas assets including more than 3,100 miles of transmission and gathering pipeline. Fowlers election will be effective March 1, 2012.
As one of the natural gas industrys most knowledgeable and experienced senior leaders, Fred is an ideal addition to our Boards, said Tony Earley, PG&E Corporation Chairman, CEO and President. Safety and operational excellence are the Boards top focus at PG&E. Freds wealth of expertise further strengthens the leadership our Boards are providing in these critical areas.
I look forward to working closely with fellow directors and PG&Es executives as the company continues to take action to make PG&Es gas operations the safest and most reliable in the country, said Fowler.
Prior to leading Spectra Energys successful spin-off from Duke Energy, Fowler served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy Gas. He joined Duke in 1985 as general manager of predecessor Panhandle Trading Company (PTC) and subsequently rose through a number of senior positions with the company and its affiliated pipeline businesses.
He was appointed President of Trunkline Gas Co. in 1991 and Corporate Vice President of Marketing for PanEnergy Corp. in 1992. Fowler became President of Texas Eastern Transmission Corp. in 1994 and Group Vice President for PanEnergy in 1996. In 1997, he became Group President of Energy Transmission for Duke Energy. He was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of Duke Energy in 2002. He became President and CEO of Duke
 
 
 
Energy Gas in 2006. In 2007, Fowler became President and CEO of Spectra Energy and oversaw the companys spin-off from Duke Energy.
Previously, Fowler was President of Wynn-Fowler Trading Co., Senior Vice President of Gulf States Oil & Refining, and Vice President of Natural Gas Liquids Supply for Enterprise Products Co. He began his energy business career in 1968 with Conoco Inc.
Fowler serves on the board of Encana Corp., a leading North American natural gas producer. He previously served as vice chairman for TEPPCO Partners from March 1998 to February 2003, and as chairman of DCP Partners from April 2007 to January 2009. He also served on the board of DCP Midstream from March 2000 to January 2009.
Fowler holds a bachelors degree in finance from Oklahoma State University at Stillwater.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2

Exhibit 99.3


