FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120702172515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
.
.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
2014 General Rate Case
On July 2, 2012, PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), submitted a draft of its 2014 General Rate Case (GRC) application to the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) for review by the CPUCs Division of Ratepayer Advocates (DRA).  In the Utilitys 2014 GRC, the CPUC will determine the annual amount of authorized base revenues (or revenue requirements) that the Utility is authorized to collect from customers beginning January 1, 2014 through 2016 to recover its anticipated costs for electric and natural gas distribution and electric generation operations and to provide the Utility an opportunity to earn its authorized rate of return.  The Utilitys revenue requirements for other portions of its operations, such as electric transmission, natural gas transportation and storage services, electricity and natural gas purchases, and specific projects like the Utilitys proposed pipeline safety enhancement plan, are authorized in other regulatory proceedings overseen by the CPUC or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
In its draft GRC application, the Utility has stated that it intends to request that the CPUC increase the Utilitys authorized base revenues for 2014 by a total of $1.25 billion over the comparable base revenues for 2013 that were previously authorized by the CPUC.  Over the 2014-2016 GRC period, the Utility plans to make additional capital investments in electric and natural gas distribution and electric generation infrastructure, and improve safety, reliability and customer service.  The proposed increase in GRC base revenues represents an 8% increase over the total revenues authorized by the CPUC and the FERC in 2013 for the Utilitys operations, including the total cost of electricity and natural gas purchased for customers.  The Utility forecasts that its 2014 weighted average rate base (i.e., the Utilitys net investment in facilities, equipment, and other property used or useful in providing utility service to its customers) for the portion of the Utilitys business reviewed in the GRC will be $21.6 billion.  The Utility forecasts that it will need to spend nearly $4.0 billion on capital expenditures in each of 2014, 2015, and 2016 on electric and natural gas distribution and electric generation infrastructure improvements.  These rate base and capital expenditure projections exclude operations such as electric transmission, natural gas transportation and storage services, and specific projects authorized in other regulatory proceedings.
 
The following tables compare the proposed 2014 revenue requirement amounts included in the draft application with the comparable revenue requirements currently authorized for 2013, by both line of business and cost category:
             The Utilitys 2014 forecast for gas distribution operations includes increased costs to replace 180 miles of distribution line per year (compared to 30 miles currently), to use new leak detection technologies and survey the entire system more frequently, to remotely monitor and control a significant number of valves, to implement an asset management system to provide detailed and readily accessible information about the gas distribution system, and to lower response times for customer gas odor reports.  The Utilitys forecast for electric distribution operations includes increased costs to use infrared technology to identify and replace older assets before they fail, to install more automation to limit the impact and duration of outages, to increase patrols and take other measures to mitigate wildfire risk, and to improve asset records management.  The Utilitys forecast for electric generation includes increased costs to operate the Utilitys hydroelectric system (including costs related to the Helms pumped storage facility and costs associated with operating licenses issued by the FERC), to comply with new requirements adopted by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission applicable to the Utilitys Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant, and to operate and maintain the Utilitys fossil fuel-fired and other generating facilities.  In addition, the Utilitys forecast includes increased costs to improve service at the Utilitys local offices and customer contact centers and to improve the service provided by field account representatives to small- and mid-sized business customers.
 
The Utility plans to propose that the CPUC establish new balancing accounts for costs associated with gas leak survey and repair, major emergencies, and new regulatory requirements related to nuclear operations and hydroelectric relicensing, because these costs are subject to a high degree of uncertainty.  Finally, the Utility intends to request that the CPUC establish a generally fixed attrition allowance that would increase the Utilitys authorized revenues in 2015 and 2016, primarily to reflect increases in rate base due to capital investments in infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, anticipated increases in wages and other expenses.  As part of the attrition proposal, the Utility plans to request that revenue requirements be adjusted to reflect certain externally driven changes in the Utilitys costs.  The Utility estimates that the attrition mechanism would provide increases in revenue of $491 million in 2015 and an additional $499 million in 2016.
Independent consultants hired by the CPUCs Consumer Protection and Safety Division will review certain operational plans underlying the Utilitys 2014 cost forecast to ensure that safety and security concerns have been addressed and that the plans properly incorporate risk assessments and mitigation measures.  The consultants will evaluate the Utilitys plans, provide information about the quality and cost-effectiveness of the Utilitys safety and security proposals, and compare the proposals to industry best practices and standards.  The Utility will be able to respond to the consultants' reviews later in the proceeding, and the Utilitys response may include a revised revenue requirement forecast to address specific recommendations made by the consultants.
After the DRA determines that the Utility has satisfactorily responded to any comments the DRA may have on the draft application and the DRA accepts the draft application, the Utility must wait 60 days to file the formal GRC application with the CPUC.  The Utility anticipates that it will file its formal application in late 2012.
 
 
 
Dated:           July 2, 2012


