FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20120926141727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
Investigations Pending at the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)
The CPUC is conducting three investigations of PG&E Corporations subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Utility), that relate to (1) the Utilitys safety recordkeeping for its natural gas transmission system (the Records OII), (2) the Utilitys operation of its natural gas transmission pipeline system in or near locations of higher population density (the Class Location OII), and (3) the Utilitys pipeline installation, integrity management, recordkeeping and other operational practices, and other events or courses of conduct, that could have led to or contributed to the rupture of one of the Utilitys natural gas transmission pipelines on September 9, 2010 in San Bruno, California and the ensuing explosion and fire (the San Bruno OII).  If the CPUC determines in these investigations that the Utility violated applicable laws, rules, and orders, the CPUC can impose significant penalties on the Utility.
 
On September 25, 2012, the CPUC administrative law judges overseeing the investigations issued a joint ruling granting the CPUCs Consumer Protection and Safety Divisions (CPSD) request to file a single coordinated brief regarding potential remedies and penalties in these investigative proceedings, rather than separate briefs in each proceeding.  The ruling also directed the CPSD to include in its brief the amounts of any fine recommendations that are attributable to each proceeding. The ruling also established a revised procedural schedule for the investigations which allows the Utility and other parties to respond to supplemental testimony on the Utilitys financial resources filed by the CPSD on September 17, 2012.  The supplemental testimony consisted of a report prepared by the CPSDs financial consultant that concluded that the Utility can issue approximately $2.2 billion in equity to pay a penalty.
 
The revised schedule is as follows:
 
 
After the parties review the Utilitys reply testimony, the CPSD may request an opportunity to provide rebuttal testimony before the hearing on November 13, 2012.
1
 
The ruling also stated that no decision had been made as to whether or how to consolidate the proceedings for decision and noted that consolidation may be ordered at a later date.
PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 and for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2012, reflect PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys conclusion that it was probable that the Utility would incur total penalties of at least $200 million. In connection with these financial statements, PG&E Corporation and the Utility stated that they were unable to estimate the reasonably possible amount of additional penalties that the Utility could incur and that such amounts could be material.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility stated that their estimates and assumptions are subject to change and that future changes in these estimates or assumptions could have a material impact on PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


