FILE:PCG/PCG-8K-20121016151834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On October 15, 2012, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) announced that it had appointed former U.S. Senator George Mitchell to serve as mediator in discussions to resolve three CPUC investigations pending against Pacific Gas and Electric Company (the Utility).  The CPUC investigations relate to (1) the Utilitys safety recordkeeping for its natural gas transmission system, (2) the Utilitys operation of its natural gas transmission pipeline system in or near locations of higher population density, and (3) the Utilitys pipeline installation, integrity management, recordkeeping and other operational practices, and other events or courses of conduct, that could have led to or contributed to the rupture of one of the Utilitys natural gas transmission pipelines on September 9, 2010 in San Bruno, California and the ensuing explosion and fire.  The procedural schedule in these proceedings has been suspended until November 1, 2012 in order to enable the parties to continue to engage in negotiations to reach a stipulated outcome of these proceedings.
PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflect a charge of $200 million for the minimum amount of penalties that they believe is probable the CPUC will impose on the Utility.  PG&E Corporation and the Utility have not recorded any additional charges in their financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and have stated that they are unable to estimate the reasonably possible amount of penalties in excess of the amount accrued, and that such amounts could be material.  These estimates and their underlying assumptions are subject to change based on many factors, including the progress of the settlement and mediation process, the terms of any settlement that may be reached, and whether and when the CPUC approves a settlement that may be reached.  Future changes in these estimates or assumptions could have a material impact on PG&E Corporations and the Utilitys financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 


