Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the consolidated financial statements of the Company, and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere in this report. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands, except share amounts and per share data) Income Statement Data: Net sales $ 827,750 $ 548,361 $ 422,754 $ 348,958 $ 295,333 Gross profit 338,750 213,473 150,791 113,647 95,331 Income from operations 148,366 80,706 45,399 25,498 17,878 Net income 90,489 48,376 27,413 15,007 10,495 Net income per common share basic $ 1.12 $ 0.62 $ 0.36 $ 0.22 $ 0.15 Weighted average common shares outstanding basic 80,709,949 78,534,926 75,552,912 69,074,460 69,028,744 Net income per common share diluted $ 1.08 $ 0.60 $ 0.35 $ 0.22 $ 0.15 Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 83,651,725 80,831,138 77,553,808 69,753,828 69,099,320 Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 189,597 $ 118,073 $ 101,512 $ 41,319 $ 31,655 Total assets 556,684 384,502 296,303 207,331 178,522 Total liabilities 154,440 94,372 71,918 61,443 48,910 Capital lease obligations 60 271 471 609 Total shareholders equity 402,244 290,130 224,385 145,888 129,612 12 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Securities and Exchange Commission filing is being made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain matters contained in this filing may constitute forward looking statements. When used in this Form 10 K, the words project, believe, anticipate, expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements, although not all forward looking statements contain these identifying words. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in our filings with the SEC. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update forward looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein. Overview We operate two business segments, a lifestyle merchandising retailing segment and a wholesale apparel business. Our retailing segment consists of our Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People stores. In addition, Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie offer merchandise through our direct to consumer operations, which consist of a catalog and web site for each of these brands. Free People offers merchandise through a web site. Our wholesale segment consists of our Free People wholesale division. A store is included in comparable store net sales data, as presented in this discussion, when it has been open at least one year, unless it was materially expanded or remodeled within that year or was not operating at its full capacity within that year. A store is considered non comparable when, in general, the store had no comparable prior year sales. Non store sales, such as catalog and internet sales, are also considered non comparable. Although we have no precise empirical data as it relates to customer traffic or customer conversion rates in our stores, we believe that, based only on our observations, the increases in our key sales metrics, as discussed in our results of operations, correlate to an increase in customer traffic. We believe this may be caused by a combination of positive response to our brands fashion offerings, our web advertising, additional circulation of our catalogs and an overall growth in brand recognition as we expand our store base, including expansion into enclosed malls and specialty retail centers. Any significant change in the business risk factors, some of which are discussed below, may affect our sales and may have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. All references in this discussion to our fiscal years refer to the fiscal years ended on January 31 in those years. For example, our fiscal 2005 ended on January 31, 2005. The comparable store net sales data presented in this discussion is calculated based on the net sales of all stores open at least twelve full months at the beginning of the period for which such data is presented. Our business segments are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending, fashion shifts, industry trends and demographic conditions. We are subject to seasonal variations and face numerous business risk factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, which include our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is a risk that consumer sentiment may turn negative due to economic and or geo political factors which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. As of the date of this report, we have not identified any known trends in the economy, industry or demography that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our business is dependent upon our ability to predict fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends in part on managements ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Compared to our retail segments, our wholesale business is more sensitive to changes in fashion trends because of longer lead times in the design and manufacture of its apparel. While we do not plan for mistakes in our fashion offering selections, our fashion decisions constitute a material risk and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We plan to grow our store base by approximately 20% per year. We may not be successful in expanding our business and opening new retail stores. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis. Our operating complexity and management responsibilities will increase as our store base grows, and we may face challenges in managing our future growth. Such growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our operations, including our distribution and business support infrastructures, and expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, we may be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our new stores or to successfully integrate the stores into our business. Our expansion prospects also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: competition; the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements; the availability of suitable sites for new store locations on acceptable lease terms; and the availability of inventory. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals. Even if we succeed in opening new stores as planned, we cannot assure you that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. Retail Stores As of January 31, 2005, we operated 75 Urban Outfitters stores of which 68 were located in the United States, two in Canada, three in England, one in Scotland and one in Ireland (Urban Retail). During fiscal 2005, we opened 14 new Urban Outfitters stores, all of which are located within the United States except for one store which we opened in London. Urban Outfitters targets young adults aged 18 to 30 through a unique merchandise mix and compelling store environment. Our product offering includes womens and mens fashion apparel, footwear and accessories, as well as an eclectic mix of apartment wares and gifts. We plan to open many additional stores over the next several years, some of which may be outside the United States. Urban Retails North American and European store sales accounted for approximately 43% and 4% of consolidated net sales, respectively, in fiscal 2005. We operated 65 Anthropologie stores as of January 31, 2005, all of which were located in the United States. During fiscal 2005, we opened 13 new Anthropologie stores. Anthropologie tailors its merchandise to sophisticated and contemporary women aged 30 to 45. Our product assortment includes womens casual apparel and accessories, home furnishings and a diverse array of gifts and decorative items. We plan to open many additional stores over the next several years. Anthropologies store sales accounted for approximately 39% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. 14 Table of Contents We operated two Free People stores as of January 31, 2005, both of which are located in the United States. Free People primarily offers private label branded merchandise targeted to young contemporary women aged 25 to 30. Free People provides a unique merchandise mix of casual womens apparel, accessories and gifts. We plan to open additional stores over the next several fiscal years. Free Peoples sales accounted for less than 1% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. All brands combined, we plan to open approximately 30 to 32 stores during fiscal 2006, including two to three new Free People stores. The remaining new stores will be divided approximately evenly between Urban Retail and Anthropologie. Our goal thereafter is to increase net sales at least 20% per year through a combination of opening new stores, growing comparable store sales and continuing the growth of our direct to consumer and wholesale operations. Direct to consumer In March 1998, Anthropologie introduced a direct to consumer catalog offering selected merchandise, most of which is also available in our Anthropologie stores. During fiscal 2005, we circulated over 16 million catalogs and believe that this catalog has been instrumental in helping to build the Anthropologie brand identity with our target customers. We plan to expand circulation to approximately 19 million catalogs during fiscal 2006 and intend to increase the level of catalog circulation over the next few years. Anthropologie operates a web site that accepts orders directly from consumers. The web site, www.anthropologie.com, debuted in December 1998. The web site captures the spirit of the store by offering a similar array of apparel, accessories, household and gift merchandise. As with our catalog, we believe that the web site increases Anthropologies reputation and brand recognition with its target customers and helps support the strength of Anthropologies store operations. In March 2003, Urban Outfitters introduced a direct to consumer catalog offering selected merchandise much of which is also available in our Urban Outfitters stores. In fiscal 2005, we circulated approximately 10 million Urban Outfitters catalogs, which expanded our distribution channels and increased brand awareness. We plan to expand circulation to at least 11 million catalogs in fiscal 2006. Urban Outfitters also operates a web site that accepts orders directly from consumers. The web site, www.urbanoutfitters.com, was launched in May 2000. The web site captures the spirit of the store by offering a similar selection of merchandise as found in the store. As with the Urban Outfitters catalog, we believe the web site increases the reputation and recognition of the brand with its target customers as well as helps to support the strength of Urban Outfitters store operations. We successfully launched the Free People web site during September of fiscal 2005. The web site, www.freepeople.com, offers consumers the entire Free People product assortment. Initial customer reaction to our web site has exceeded our initial plan, and we intend to make strategic investments to market the direct to consumer channel of Free People by expanding the web site and merchandise assortment and potentially testing a catalog during fiscal 2006. Direct to consumer sales were approximately 11% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. Wholesale The Free People wholesale division designs, develops and markets young womens contemporary casual apparel. Our range of tops, bottoms, sweaters and dresses are sold worldwide through approximately 1,100 better department and specialty stores, including Bloomingdales, Marshall Fields, Macy*s West, Nordstrom, Urban Outfitters and our own Free People stores. Free People wholesale sales accounted for approximately 3% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. 15 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These generally accepted accounting principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has reviewed the critical accounting policies and estimates with our audit committee. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following discussion addresses our critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If actual results were to differ significantly from estimates made, the reported results could be materially affected. We are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would cause our actual results to be materially different from our estimates. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized at the point of sale for retail store sales or when merchandise is shipped to customers for wholesale and direct to consumer sales, net of estimated customer returns. Payment for merchandise at our stores, and through our direct to consumer business, is by cash, check, credit card, debit card or gift card. Therefore, our need to collect outstanding accounts receivable is negligible and mainly results from returned checks or unauthorized credit card charges. Deposits for custom orders are recorded as a liability and recognized as a sale upon delivery of the merchandise to the customer. These custom orders, typically for upholstered furniture, have not been material. Gift card sales to customers are initially recorded as liabilities and recognized as sales upon redemption. Sales Return Reserve We record a reserve for estimated product returns where the sale has occurred during the period reported, but the return is likely to occur subsequent to the period reported and may otherwise be considered in transit. The reserve for estimated in transit product returns is based on our most recent historical return trends. If the actual return rate or experience is materially higher than our estimate, additional sales returns would be recorded in the future. As of January 31, 2005 and 2004, reserves for estimated sales returns in transit totaled $4.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, representing 2.6% and 2.2% of total liabilities. Inventories We value our inventories, which consist primarily of general consumer merchandise held for sale, at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined on the first in, first out method and includes the cost of merchandise and freight. A periodic review of inventory quantities on hand is performed in order to determine if inventory is properly stated at the lower of cost or market. Factors related to current inventories, such as future consumer demand and fashion trends, current aging, current and anticipated retail markdowns or wholesale discounts, and class or type of inventory, are analyzed to determine estimated net realizable values. Criteria we utilize to quantify aging trends includes factors such as average selling cycle and seasonality of merchandise, the historical rate at which merchandise has sold below cost during the average selling cycle, and merchandise currently priced below original cost. A provision is recorded to reduce the cost of inventories to its estimated net realizable value, if required. Inventories as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004 totaled $99.0 million and $63.2 million, respectively, representing 17.8% and 16.4% of total assets. Any significant unanticipated changes in the factors noted above could have a significant impact on the value of our inventories and our reported operating results. 16 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our ability to identify changes in fashion. Our inability to reasonably determine these changes may lead to higher seasonal inventory levels and a future need to increase markdowns to liquidate our inventory. We take measures to mitigate this risk, including designing goods in house in conjunction with buying our goods from the open market. We use our catalogs to help predict the fashion appropriateness of seasonal merchandise in our stores. Our reserves related to adjusting the net realizable value of our inventories are primarily based on recent historical trends. Our estimates generally have been accurate and our reserve methods have been applied on a consistent basis. We expect the amount of our reserves to increase over time as we expand our store base and accordingly, related inventories. Long Lived Assets Our long lived assets consist principally of store leasehold improvements, as well as furniture and fixtures, and are included in the Property and Equipment, net line item in our consolidated balance sheets included in this report. Store leasehold improvements are recorded at cost and are amortized using the straight line method over the lesser of the applicable store lease term or the estimated useful life of the leasehold improvements. The typical initial lease term for our stores is ten years. Furniture and fixtures are recorded at cost and are amortized using the straight line method over five years. Net property and equipment as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004 totaled $192.8 million and $146.8 million, respectively, representing 34.6% and 38.2% of total assets, respectively. In assessing potential impairment of these assets, we periodically evaluate historical and forecasted operating results and cash flows on a store by store basis. Newly opened stores may take time to generate positive operating and cash flow results. Factors such as store type (e.g., mall versus free standing), store location (e.g., urban area versus college campus or suburb), current marketplace awareness of the Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People brands, local customer demographic data and current fashion trends are all considered in determining the time frame required for a store to achieve positive financial results, which, in general, is assumed to be within three years from the date a store location has opened. If economic conditions are substantially different from our expectations, the carrying value of certain of our long lived assets may become impaired. For fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had no write downs of long lived assets. We have only closed two stores in our history, which in both cases took place at the expiration of the lease term. We have not historically encountered material early retirement charges related to our long lived assets. The cost of assets sold or retired and the related accumulated depreciation or amortization is removed from the accounts with any resulting gain or loss included in net income. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expense as incurred. Major renovations or improvements that extend the service lives of our assets are capitalized over the extension period. As of the date of this report, all of our stores opened in excess of three years are generating positive cash flow before allocation of corporate overhead. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes, such as depreciation of property and equipment and valuation of inventories. We determine our provision for income taxes based on tax legislation currently in effect. Legislation changes currently proposed by certain states in which we operate, if enacted, could increase the transactions or activities subject to tax. Any such legislation that becomes law could result in an increase in our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Actual results could differ from this assessment if adequate taxable income is not generated in future periods. Deferred tax assets as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004 totaled $16.7 million and $13.8 million, respectively, representing 17 Table of Contents 3.0% and 3.6% of total assets, respectively. To the extent we believe that recovery is at risk, we must establish valuation allowances. To the extent we establish valuation allowances or increase the allowances in a period, we must include an expense within the tax provision in the consolidated statement of income. We have valuation allowances of $2.0 million as of January 31, 2005 due to uncertainties related to our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards of certain foreign subsidiaries and capital loss carryforwards. In the future, if enough evidence of our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in these foreign jurisdictions or to realize off setting capital gains becomes apparent, we would be required to reduce our valuation allowances, resulting in a reduction in income tax expense in the consolidated statement of income. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates and assesses if we will realize the deferred tax assets and adjusts the valuation allowances if necessary. Accounting for Contingencies From time to time, we are named as a defendant in legal actions arising from our normal business activities. We account for contingencies such as these in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires us to record an estimated loss contingency when information available prior to issuance of our financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for contingencies arising from contractual or legal proceedings requires management to use its best judgment when estimating an accrual related to such contingencies. As additional information becomes known, our accrual for a loss contingency could fluctuate, thereby creating variability in our results of operations from period to period. Likewise, an actual loss arising from a loss contingency which significantly exceeds the amount accrued for in our financial statements could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period in which such actual loss becomes known. Results of Operations As a Percentage of Net Sales The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of our net sales represented by certain income statement data and the change in certain income statement data from period to period. This table should be read in conjunction with the discussion that follows: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales, including certain buying, distribution and occupancy costs 59.1 61.1 64.3 Gross profit 40.9 38.9 35.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 23.0 24.2 25.0 Income from operations 17.9 14.7 10.7 Interest income 0.3 0.3 0.4 Other income Other expenses (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Income before income taxes 18.1 14.8 10.9 Income tax expense 7.2 6.0 4.4 Net income 10.9 % 8.8 % 6.5 % Period over Period Change: Net sales 51.0 % 29.7 % 21.1 % Gross profit 58.7 % 41.6 % 32.7 % Income from operations 83.8 % 77.8 % 78.0 % Net income 87.1 % 76.5 % 82.7 % 18 Table of Contents Operating Leases We lease our retail stores under operating leases. Many of the lease agreements contain rent holidays, rent escalation clauses and contingent rent provisions or some combination of these items. We recognize rent expense on a straight line basis over the accounting lease term. In a February 2005 letter to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC clarified its position regarding certain lease accounting practices. The SECs letter specifically addressed the depreciable life of leasehold improvements, rent holidays and landlord tenant incentives. Based upon the SECs conclusions included in their letter, we reviewed our historical treatment of these lease issues to ensure our accounting treatment reflected the SECs conclusions. Historically, we had recorded rent expense on a straight line basis over the lease period commencing on the date the store opened. The lease period did not include the construction period to make the lease space suitable for operations during which time we were not permitted to occupy the space for retail purposes. We changed our straight line period to include this construction period in our calculation of rent expense over the lease term, which results in an accounting lease term that equals or exceeds the time period used for depreciation. Therefore, for purposes of calculating straight line rent expense, the commencement date of the lease term reflects the date we take possession of the building for initial construction and setup. We had also historically classified tenant improvement allowances on our consolidated balance sheets as a reduction of property and equipment. The related amortization was classified as a reduction of depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of income. Our consolidated statements of cash flows historically reflected tenant improvement allowances as a reduction of capital expenditures within cash flows from investing activities. We changed the classification of tenant improvement allowances on our consolidated financial statements to reflect such items as deferred rent that will be amortized as a reduction of rent expense over the straight line period. Furthermore, tenant improvement allowance activity is now presented as part of cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. After assessing our findings using the guidance in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, we recorded a cumulative adjustment of $4.6 million, net of tax, which reduced net income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net sales in fiscal 2005 increased by 51.0% to $827.8 million from $548.4 million in the prior fiscal year. The $279.4 million increase was primarily attributable to a $269.6 million, or 50.8% increase, in retail segment sales. Free People wholesale sales contributed $9.8 million or 1.8%, excluding sales to our retail segment, to the increase. The growth in our retail segment sales during fiscal 2005 was driven by a $131.5 million increase in non comparable and new store net sales, a $95.3 million or 21.6% increase in comparable store sales and an increase in direct to consumer sales of $42.8 million or 83.6%. The increase in comparable store net sales was comprised of a 24.0%, 51.0% and 19.7% increase for Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters, respectively. The increase in net sales attributable to non comparable and new stores was primarily the result of opening 28 new stores in fiscal 2005 and 21 new stores in fiscal 2004 that are considered non comparable during fiscal 2005. Comparable store net sales increases were principally the result of an increase in the number of transactions and average sales prices resulting from higher initial price points which more than offset a modest increase in markdowns. Comparable store sales continue to significantly exceed our plan thus far during fiscal 2006. Direct to consumer net sales increased over the prior year primarily due to additional customer response related to the circulation of approximately 9.6 million additional catalogs, increased traffic to the web sites and improvements in the average order value at both Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie. The increase in Free People wholesale sales was driven by an increase in customer response to our fashion offerings. 19 Table of Contents Gross profit in fiscal 2005 increased to 40.9% of net sales or $338.8 million from $213.5 million or 38.9% of net sales in fiscal 2004. Improvements to initial margins due to better merchandise sourcing and the leveraging of store related occupancy costs, driven by the comparable store sales increases, accounted for the majority of this increase. This combined increase more than offset the $7.7 million, or 1.0% of net sales, multi year cumulative charge to accelerate deferred rent for store locations resulting from our review of our historical method of accounting for certain operating leases. Total inventories at January 31, 2005 increased by 56.5% to $99.0 million from $63.2 million in the prior fiscal year. The increase primarily related to the acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores. On a comparable store basis, inventories increased by 19.8% versus the prior fiscal year. We anticipate making similar investments in connection with new store openings in fiscal 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2005 decreased to 23.0% of net sales versus 24.2% of net sales for fiscal 2004. This improvement was primarily attributable to the leveraging of store level expenses as a result of the increases in the comparable store sales and leveraging of fixed expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2005 increased to $190.4 million from $132.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The increase primarily related to the operating expenses of new and non comparable stores. Accordingly, income from operations increased to 17.9% of net sales or $148.4 million for fiscal 2005 compared to 14.7% of net sales or $80.7 million for fiscal 2004. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 39.8% of income for fiscal 2005 compared to 40.5% of income for fiscal 2004. This decrease was primarily attributable to a lower effective state income tax rate due to a change in the weight of sales, property and income apportioned to lower tax jurisdictions. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this report, for a reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate. Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 Net sales in fiscal 2004 increased by 29.7% to $548.4 million from $422.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The $125.6 million increase was primarily attributable to a $126.1 million, or 31.2% increase, in retail segment sales, offset in part by a slight decline in Free People wholesale sales of $0.5 million, excluding sales to our retail segment. The growth in our retail segment sales during fiscal 2004 was driven by a $61.6 million increase in non comparable and new store net sales, a $45.1 million or 12.9% increase in comparable store sales and an increase in direct to consumer sales of $19.4 million or 61.1%. The increase in comparable store net sales was comprised of a 12.6% and 13.1% increase for Anthropologie and Urban Outfitters, respectively. The increase in net sales attributable to non comparable and new stores was primarily the result of opening 21 new stores in fiscal 2004 and 13 new stores in fiscal 2003 that are considered non comparable during fiscal 2004. Comparable store net sales increases were principally the result of an increase in the number of transactions and average sales prices resulting from higher initial price points and a lower proportion of markdowns. Direct to consumer net sales increased over the prior year primarily due to additional customer response related to the initial circulation of 3 million new Urban Outfitters catalogs and increased traffic to the Urban Outfitters web site. Anthropologie also contributed to the direct to consumer net sales growth by increasing circulation of the Anthropologie catalog to approximately 13.3 million catalogs, including a new Winter Essentials catalog, increased traffic to the Anthropologie web site, and an improvement in the average order value. Gross profit during fiscal 2004 increased to 38.9% of net sales or $213.5 million from $150.8 million or 35.7% of net sales in fiscal 2003. Improvements to initial margins due to better sourcing and a reduction in markdown requirements accounted for the majority of the increase. Total inventories at January 31, 2004 increased by 26.5% to $63.2 million from $50.0 million in the prior fiscal year primarily related to the acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores. Comparable store inventories increased slightly by 0.3%. 20 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2004 decreased to 24.2% of net sales versus 25.0% of net sales for fiscal 2003. This improvement was primarily attributable to the leveraging of store level expenses as a result of the increases in the comparable store sales and leveraging of fixed expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2004 increased to $132.8 million from $105.4 million in the prior fiscal year. The increase primarily related to the operating expenses of new and non comparable stores. Accordingly, our income from operations increased to 14.7% of net sales or $80.7 million for fiscal 2004 compared to 10.7% of net sales or $45.4 million for fiscal 2003. Our effective tax rate of 40.5% remained the same for fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this report, for a reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $219.1 million as of January 31, 2005 as compared to $139.5 million as of January 31, 2004 and $95.1 million as of January 31, 2003. Increases in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities since January 31, 2004 were primarily a result of cash provided by operating activities. As of January 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our net working capital was $189.6 million, $118.1 million and $101.5 million for these years, respectively. The change in net working capital is primarily due to the increase in our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and inventories that have increased in order to support our current growth. During the last three years, we have mainly satisfied our cash requirements through our cash flow from operations. Our primary uses of cash have been to open new stores and purchase inventories. We have also continued to invest in our direct to consumer efforts and in our United Kingdom and Ireland subsidiaries. Capital expenditures, net of tenant improvement allowances included in deferred rent for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $60.1 million, $33.1 million and $22.2 million respectively, and were primarily used to expand and support our store base. During fiscal 2006, we plan to construct and open 30 to 32 new stores, renovate certain existing stores, increase our catalog circulation by 4 million, to 30 million catalogs, and purchase inventory for our stores and direct to consumer business at levels appropriate to maintain our planned sales growth. We plan to increase the level of capital expenditures during fiscal 2006 to approximately $100 million, primarily to expand our store base, begin construction of our new home office campus and purchase equipment for our new distribution center in South Carolina. Both our new store, catalog and inventory investments have the ability to generate positive cash flow within a year. Improvements to our new home office campus and distribution facilities are necessary to adequately support our growth. We expect to spend between $40 and $50 million to improve our new home office campus, net of potential incentive credits, over the next three years, most of which will be capitalized based on the useful life of the improvements and fixtures. The purchase of distribution center machinery, equipment and personal property will approximate $3 million. Accumulated cash and future cash from operations, as well as available credit under our line of credit facility, are expected to fund our commitments and all such expansion related cash needs at least through fiscal 2008. On September 30, 2004, we renewed and amended our line of credit facility (the Line). The Line is a three year $35.0 million revolving credit facility with an accordion feature allowing an increase in available credit to $50.0 million at our discretion, subject to a seven day request period. The Line contains a sub limit for borrowings by our European subsidiaries that are guaranteed by Urban Outfitters, Inc. Cash advances bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.50% to 1.60% based on our achievement of prescribed adjusted debt ratios. The Line subjects us to various restrictive covenants, including maintenance of certain financial ratios and covenants such as fixed charge coverage and adjusted debt. The covenants also include limitations on our capital expenditures, ability to repurchase shares and the payment of cash dividends. As of January 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Line. As of and during the twelve months ended January 31, 2005, there were no borrowings under the Line. Outstanding letters of credit and stand by letters of credit under the Line totaled approximately $22.7 million as of January 31, 2005. The available borrowing, including the accordion feature, under the Line was $27.3 million as of January 31, 2005. 21 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio includes certain auction rate securities that have been reclassified from cash equivalents to short term marketable securities in the January 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet. Auction rate securities are variable rate bonds tied to short term interest rates with maturities on the face of the securities in excess of 90 days. Auction rate securities have interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined short term intervals, usually every 7, 28 or 35 days. They trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer. Interest paid during a given period is based upon the interest rate determined during the prior auction. Although these securities are issued and rated as long term bonds, they are priced and traded as short term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the interest rate reset. We had historically classified these instruments as cash equivalents if the period between interest rate resets was 90 days or less, which was based on our ability to either liquidate our holdings or roll our investment over to the next reset period. Based upon our re evaluation of the maturity dates associated with the underlying bonds, we have reclassified our auction rate securities, previously classified as cash equivalents, as short term marketable securities in the January 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet. We have entered into agreements that create contractual obligations and commercial commitments. These obligations and commitments will have an impact on future liquidity and the availability of capital resources. Accumulated cash and future cash from operations, as well as available credit under our line of credit facility, are expected to fund such obligations and commitments. The tables noted below present a summary of these obligations and commitments as of January 31, 2005: Contractual Obligations Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Description Total Obligations Less Than One Year One to Three Years Four to Five Years More Than Five Years Operating leases (1) $ 521,491 $ 62,064 $ 125,980 $ 118,292 $ 215,155 Purchase orders (2) 129,450 129,450 Construction contracts (3) 10,056 10,056 Capital lease (4) 60 60 Total contractual obligations $ 661,057 $ 201,630 $ 125,980 $ 118,292 $ 215,155 (1) Includes store operating leases, which generally provide for payment of direct operating costs in addition to rent. The obligation amounts shown above only reflect our future minimum lease payments as the direct operating costs fluctuate over the term of the lease. Additionally, there are ten locations where a percentage of sales are paid in lieu of a fixed minimum rent that are not reflected in the above table. Total rent expense related to these seven locations was approximately $1,797,000 for fiscal 2005. The leases pertaining to our Urban Outfitters stores at Covent Gardens and Oxford Street only specify our rent obligation for a five year period. The minimum rent obligation is then subject to review every five years. Included in the table above is an estimate of our rent obligation on these properties for the first five years. Amounts noted above include commitments for 19 executed leases for stores not opened as of January 31, 2005. (2) Includes an estimate of un fulfilled purchase orders for merchandise ordered from our vendors in the normal course of business, which are liquidated within 12 months. (3) Includes store construction contracts with contractors, fully liquidated upon the completion of construction, which is typically within 12 months. (4) During fiscal 2002, the Company entered into a capital lease for computer equipment with a cost of approximately $609,000, which was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 upon receipt of the related equipment in accordance with the contract. The lease provides for the payment of interest as well as principal. 22 Table of Contents Commercial Commitments Amount of Commitment Per Period (in thousands) Description TotalAmountsCommitted LessThanOneYear OnetoThreeYears FourtoFiveYears MoreThanFiveYears Line of credit (1) $ 22,341 $ 22,341 $ $ $ Standby letters of credit 374 374 Total commercial commitments $ 22,715 $ 22,715 $ $ $ (1) Consists solely of outstanding letter of credit commitments in connection with inventory purchases. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of and for the three years ended January 31, 2005, we were not party to any off balance sheet arrangements. Other Matters Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which revised SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123R addresses the accounting for share based payment transactions with employees and other third parties, eliminates the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using APB Opinion No. 25 and requires that the compensation costs relating to such transactions be recognized in the statement of income. The amount of compensation cost will be measured based on the grant date fair value of equity or liability instruments issued. Compensation cost will be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the award. The full impact of SFAS No. 123R adoption cannot be predicted at this time as it will depend on levels of share based payment granted in the future. SFAS No. 123R also requires that benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. We are unable to estimate what those amounts will be in the future as they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options. SFAS No. 123R is effective as of the first interim period of the fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. We are currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS No. 123R and plan to adopt it in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. In December 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. FSP No. 109 2 provides guidance under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, with respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) on enterprises income tax expense and deferred tax liability. FSP No. 109 2 states that an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Jobs Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109. Based upon our preliminary evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision, we do not believe it will have any impact on our financial position or results of operations. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs. This Statement amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material. SFAS No. 151 requires 23 Table of Contents that those items be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of so abnormal. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of SFAS No. 151 are effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We are currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS No. 151, but do not believe it will have any impact on our financial position or results of operations. In March 2004, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments (EITF No. 03 1), but delayed the recognition and measurement provisions of EITF No. 03 1 in September 2004. For reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004, only the disclosure requirements for available for sale securities and cost method investments are required. EITF No. 03 1 requires a company with investments in an unrealized loss position for which other than temporary impairments have not been recognized to disclose the aggregate amount of unrealized losses and aggregate related fair value of such investments. In addition, the factors taken into consideration which led to the conclusion that such unrealized losses are not other than temporary must also be disclosed. The Company adopted the disclosure requirements in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and such disclosures are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Seasonality and Quarterly Results While we have been profitable in each of our last 60 operating quarters, our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our highest sales levels have historically occurred during the five month period from August 1 to December 31 of each year (the back to school and holiday periods). Sales generated during these periods have traditionally had a significant impact on our results of operations. Any decreases in sales for these periods or in the availability of working capital needed in the months preceding these periods could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While the comparable store sales trend thus far during fiscal 2006 continues to significantly exceed our plan, results of operations in any one fiscal quarter are not indicative of the results of operations that can be expected for any other fiscal quarter or for the full fiscal year. Our results of operations may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of the amount and timing of expenses incurred in connection with, and sales contributed by, new stores, store expansions and the integration of new stores into our operations or by the size and timing of catalog mailings and web site traffic for our direct to consumer operations. Fluctuations in the bookings and shipments of wholesale merchandise between quarters can also have positive or negative effects on earnings during the quarters. 24 Table of Contents The following tables, which are unaudited, set forth our net sales, gross profit, net income and net income per common share (basic and diluted) for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the amount of such net sales and net income, respectively, as a percentage of annual net sales and annual net income. Fiscal 2005 Quarter Ended April 30, 2004 July 31, 2004 Oct. 31, 2004 Jan. 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 170,290 $ 189,484 $ 216,353 $ 251,623 Gross profit 69,894 77,018 91,458 100,380 Net income 16,869 20,508 26,036 27,076 Net income per common share basic 0.21 0.25 0.32 0.33 Net income per common share diluted 0.20 0.25 0.31 0.32 As a Percentage of Fiscal Year: Net sales 21 % 23 % 26 % 30 % Net income 19 % 22 % 29 % 30 % Fiscal 2004 Quarter Ended April 30, 2003 July 31, 2003 Oct. 31, 2003 Jan. 31, 2004 (dollars in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 107,028 $ 122,879 $ 142,331 $ 176,123 Gross profit 37,933 45,648 56,811 73,081 Net income 6,393 9,467 14,087 18,429 Net income per common share basic 0.08 0.12 0.18 0.23 Net income per common share diluted 0.08 0.12 0.17 0.22 As a Percentage of Fiscal Year: Net sales 20 % 22 % 26 % 32 % Net income 13 % 20 % 29 % 38 % Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to the following types of market risks fluctuations in the purchase price of merchandise, as well as other goods and services; the value of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar; and changes in interest rates. Our inventory turnover rate and its historical ability to pass through the impact of any generalized changes in its cost of goods to its customers through pricing adjustments, commodity and other product risks are not expected to be material. We purchase substantially all of our merchandise in U.S. dollars, including a portion of the goods for its stores located in Canada and Europe. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of January 31, 2005, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities consisted primarily of funds invested in tax exempt municipal bonds rated AA or better, auction rate securities rated AA or better and money market accounts, which bear interest at a variable rate. Due to the average maturity and conservative nature of our investment portfolio, we believe a sudden change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the value of our investment portfolio. As the interest rates on a material portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are variable, a change in interest rates earned on the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities would impact interest income along with cash flows, but would not impact the fair market value of the related underlying instruments. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Securities and Exchange Commission filing is being made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain matters contained in this filing may constitute forward looking statements. When used in this Form 10 K, the words project, believe, anticipate, expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements, although not all forward looking statements contain these identifying words. Any one, or all, of the following factors could cause actual financial results to differ materially from those financial results mentioned in the forward looking statements: the difficulty in predicting and responding to shifts in fashion trends, changes in the level of competitive pricing and promotional activity and other industry factors, overall economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, any effects of terrorist acts or war, availability of suitable retail space for expansion, timing of store openings, seasonal fluctuations in gross sales, the departure of one or more key senior managers, import risks, including potential disruptions and changes in duties, tariffs and quotas and other risks identified in our filings with the SEC. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update forward looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that actual results may differ materially from any projected results expressed or implied therein. Overview We operate two business segments, a lifestyle merchandising retailing segment and a wholesale apparel business. Our retailing segment consists of our Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People stores. In addition, Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie offer merchandise through our direct to consumer operations, which consist of a catalog and web site for each of these brands. Free People offers merchandise through a web site. Our wholesale segment consists of our Free People wholesale division. A store is included in comparable store net sales data, as presented in this discussion, when it has been open at least one year, unless it was materially expanded or remodeled within that year or was not operating at its full capacity within that year. A store is considered non comparable when, in general, the store had no comparable prior year sales. Non store sales, such as catalog and internet sales, are also considered non comparable. Although we have no precise empirical data as it relates to customer traffic or customer conversion rates in our stores, we believe that, based only on our observations, the increases in our key sales metrics, as discussed in our results of operations, correlate to an increase in customer traffic. We believe this may be caused by a combination of positive response to our brands fashion offerings, our web advertising, additional circulation of our catalogs and an overall growth in brand recognition as we expand our store base, including expansion into enclosed malls and specialty retail centers. Any significant change in the business risk factors, some of which are discussed below, may affect our sales and may have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our fiscal year ends on January 31. All references in this discussion to our fiscal years refer to the fiscal years ended on January 31 in those years. For example, our fiscal 2005 ended on January 31, 2005. The comparable store net sales data presented in this discussion is calculated based on the net sales of all stores open at least twelve full months at the beginning of the period for which such data is presented. Our business segments are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending, fashion shifts, industry trends and demographic conditions. We are subject to seasonal variations and face numerous business risk factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary retail items and specialty retail products, which include our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is a risk that consumer sentiment may turn negative due to economic and or geo political factors which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. As of the date of this report, we have not identified any known trends in the economy, industry or demography that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our business is dependent upon our ability to predict fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion related factors. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends in part on managements ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Compared to our retail segments, our wholesale business is more sensitive to changes in fashion trends because of longer lead times in the design and manufacture of its apparel. While we do not plan for mistakes in our fashion offering selections, our fashion decisions constitute a material risk and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We plan to grow our store base by approximately 20% per year. We may not be successful in expanding our business and opening new retail stores. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis. Our operating complexity and management responsibilities will increase as our store base grows, and we may face challenges in managing our future growth. Such growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our operations, including our distribution and business support infrastructures, and expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, we may be unable to hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel to work in our new stores or to successfully integrate the stores into our business. Our expansion prospects also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: competition; the availability of financing for capital expenditures and working capital requirements; the availability of suitable sites for new store locations on acceptable lease terms; and the availability of inventory. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals. Even if we succeed in opening new stores as planned, we cannot assure you that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us, or at all. If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable revenue and profitability levels, we may incur significant costs associated with closing those stores. Retail Stores As of January 31, 2005, we operated 75 Urban Outfitters stores of which 68 were located in the United States, two in Canada, three in England, one in Scotland and one in Ireland (Urban Retail). During fiscal 2005, we opened 14 new Urban Outfitters stores, all of which are located within the United States except for one store which we opened in London. Urban Outfitters targets young adults aged 18 to 30 through a unique merchandise mix and compelling store environment. Our product offering includes womens and mens fashion apparel, footwear and accessories, as well as an eclectic mix of apartment wares and gifts. We plan to open many additional stores over the next several years, some of which may be outside the United States. Urban Retails North American and European store sales accounted for approximately 43% and 4% of consolidated net sales, respectively, in fiscal 2005. We operated 65 Anthropologie stores as of January 31, 2005, all of which were located in the United States. During fiscal 2005, we opened 13 new Anthropologie stores. Anthropologie tailors its merchandise to sophisticated and contemporary women aged 30 to 45. Our product assortment includes womens casual apparel and accessories, home furnishings and a diverse array of gifts and decorative items. We plan to open many additional stores over the next several years. Anthropologies store sales accounted for approximately 39% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. 14 Table of Contents We operated two Free People stores as of January 31, 2005, both of which are located in the United States. Free People primarily offers private label branded merchandise targeted to young contemporary women aged 25 to 30. Free People provides a unique merchandise mix of casual womens apparel, accessories and gifts. We plan to open additional stores over the next several fiscal years. Free Peoples sales accounted for less than 1% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. All brands combined, we plan to open approximately 30 to 32 stores during fiscal 2006, including two to three new Free People stores. The remaining new stores will be divided approximately evenly between Urban Retail and Anthropologie. Our goal thereafter is to increase net sales at least 20% per year through a combination of opening new stores, growing comparable store sales and continuing the growth of our direct to consumer and wholesale operations. Direct to consumer In March 1998, Anthropologie introduced a direct to consumer catalog offering selected merchandise, most of which is also available in our Anthropologie stores. During fiscal 2005, we circulated over 16 million catalogs and believe that this catalog has been instrumental in helping to build the Anthropologie brand identity with our target customers. We plan to expand circulation to approximately 19 million catalogs during fiscal 2006 and intend to increase the level of catalog circulation over the next few years. Anthropologie operates a web site that accepts orders directly from consumers. The web site, www.anthropologie.com, debuted in December 1998. The web site captures the spirit of the store by offering a similar array of apparel, accessories, household and gift merchandise. As with our catalog, we believe that the web site increases Anthropologies reputation and brand recognition with its target customers and helps support the strength of Anthropologies store operations. In March 2003, Urban Outfitters introduced a direct to consumer catalog offering selected merchandise much of which is also available in our Urban Outfitters stores. In fiscal 2005, we circulated approximately 10 million Urban Outfitters catalogs, which expanded our distribution channels and increased brand awareness. We plan to expand circulation to at least 11 million catalogs in fiscal 2006. Urban Outfitters also operates a web site that accepts orders directly from consumers. The web site, www.urbanoutfitters.com, was launched in May 2000. The web site captures the spirit of the store by offering a similar selection of merchandise as found in the store. As with the Urban Outfitters catalog, we believe the web site increases the reputation and recognition of the brand with its target customers as well as helps to support the strength of Urban Outfitters store operations. We successfully launched the Free People web site during September of fiscal 2005. The web site, www.freepeople.com, offers consumers the entire Free People product assortment. Initial customer reaction to our web site has exceeded our initial plan, and we intend to make strategic investments to market the direct to consumer channel of Free People by expanding the web site and merchandise assortment and potentially testing a catalog during fiscal 2006. Direct to consumer sales were approximately 11% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. Wholesale The Free People wholesale division designs, develops and markets young womens contemporary casual apparel. Our range of tops, bottoms, sweaters and dresses are sold worldwide through approximately 1,100 better department and specialty stores, including Bloomingdales, Marshall Fields, Macy*s West, Nordstrom, Urban Outfitters and our own Free People stores. Free People wholesale sales accounted for approximately 3% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2005. 15 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These generally accepted accounting principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Our senior management has reviewed the critical accounting policies and estimates with our audit committee. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following discussion addresses our critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If actual results were to differ significantly from estimates made, the reported results could be materially affected. We are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would cause our actual results to be materially different from our estimates. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized at the point of sale for retail store sales or when merchandise is shipped to customers for wholesale and direct to consumer sales, net of estimated customer returns. Payment for merchandise at our stores, and through our direct to consumer business, is by cash, check, credit card, debit card or gift card. Therefore, our need to collect outstanding accounts receivable is negligible and mainly results from returned checks or unauthorized credit card charges. Deposits for custom orders are recorded as a liability and recognized as a sale upon delivery of the merchandise to the customer. These custom orders, typically for upholstered furniture, have not been material. Gift card sales to customers are initially recorded as liabilities and recognized as sales upon redemption. Sales Return Reserve We record a reserve for estimated product returns where the sale has occurred during the period reported, but the return is likely to occur subsequent to the period reported and may otherwise be considered in transit. The reserve for estimated in transit product returns is based on our most recent historical return trends. If the actual return rate or experience is materially higher than our estimate, additional sales returns would be recorded in the future. As of January 31, 2005 and 2004, reserves for estimated sales returns in transit totaled $4.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, representing 2.6% and 2.2% of total liabilities. Inventories We value our inventories, which consist primarily of general consumer merchandise held for sale, at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined on the first in, first out method and includes the cost of merchandise and freight. A periodic review of inventory quantities on hand is performed in order to determine if inventory is properly stated at the lower of cost or market. Factors related to current inventories, such as future consumer demand and fashion trends, current aging, current and anticipated retail markdowns or wholesale discounts, and class or type of inventory, are analyzed to determine estimated net realizable values. Criteria we utilize to quantify aging trends includes factors such as average selling cycle and seasonality of merchandise, the historical rate at which merchandise has sold below cost during the average selling cycle, and merchandise currently priced below original cost. A provision is recorded to reduce the cost of inventories to its estimated net realizable value, if required. Inventories as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004 totaled $99.0 million and $63.2 million, respectively, representing 17.8% and 16.4% of total assets. Any significant unanticipated changes in the factors noted above could have a significant impact on the value of our inventories and our reported operating results. 16 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our ability to identify changes in fashion. Our inability to reasonably determine these changes may lead to higher seasonal inventory levels and a future need to increase markdowns to liquidate our inventory. We take measures to mitigate this risk, including designing goods in house in conjunction with buying our goods from the open market. We use our catalogs to help predict the fashion appropriateness of seasonal merchandise in our stores. Our reserves related to adjusting the net realizable value of our inventories are primarily based on recent historical trends. Our estimates generally have been accurate and our reserve methods have been applied on a consistent basis. We expect the amount of our reserves to increase over time as we expand our store base and accordingly, related inventories. Long Lived Assets Our long lived assets consist principally of store leasehold improvements, as well as furniture and fixtures, and are included in the Property and Equipment, net line item in our consolidated balance sheets included in this report. Store leasehold improvements are recorded at cost and are amortized using the straight line method over the lesser of the applicable store lease term or the estimated useful life of the leasehold improvements. The typical initial lease term for our stores is ten years. Furniture and fixtures are recorded at cost and are amortized using the straight line method over five years. Net property and equipment as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004 totaled $192.8 million and $146.8 million, respectively, representing 34.6% and 38.2% of total assets, respectively. In assessing potential impairment of these assets, we periodically evaluate historical and forecasted operating results and cash flows on a store by store basis. Newly opened stores may take time to generate positive operating and cash flow results. Factors such as store type (e.g., mall versus free standing), store location (e.g., urban area versus college campus or suburb), current marketplace awareness of the Urban Outfitters, Anthropologie and Free People brands, local customer demographic data and current fashion trends are all considered in determining the time frame required for a store to achieve positive financial results, which, in general, is assumed to be within three years from the date a store location has opened. If economic conditions are substantially different from our expectations, the carrying value of certain of our long lived assets may become impaired. For fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had no write downs of long lived assets. We have only closed two stores in our history, which in both cases took place at the expiration of the lease term. We have not historically encountered material early retirement charges related to our long lived assets. The cost of assets sold or retired and the related accumulated depreciation or amortization is removed from the accounts with any resulting gain or loss included in net income. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expense as incurred. Major renovations or improvements that extend the service lives of our assets are capitalized over the extension period. As of the date of this report, all of our stores opened in excess of three years are generating positive cash flow before allocation of corporate overhead. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes, such as depreciation of property and equipment and valuation of inventories. We determine our provision for income taxes based on tax legislation currently in effect. Legislation changes currently proposed by certain states in which we operate, if enacted, could increase the transactions or activities subject to tax. Any such legislation that becomes law could result in an increase in our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Actual results could differ from this assessment if adequate taxable income is not generated in future periods. Deferred tax assets as of January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004 totaled $16.7 million and $13.8 million, respectively, representing 17 Table of Contents 3.0% and 3.6% of total assets, respectively. To the extent we believe that recovery is at risk, we must establish valuation allowances. To the extent we establish valuation allowances or increase the allowances in a period, we must include an expense within the tax provision in the consolidated statement of income. We have valuation allowances of $2.0 million as of January 31, 2005 due to uncertainties related to our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards of certain foreign subsidiaries and capital loss carryforwards. In the future, if enough evidence of our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in these foreign jurisdictions or to realize off setting capital gains becomes apparent, we would be required to reduce our valuation allowances, resulting in a reduction in income tax expense in the consolidated statement of income. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates and assesses if we will realize the deferred tax assets and adjusts the valuation allowances if necessary. Accounting for Contingencies From time to time, we are named as a defendant in legal actions arising from our normal business activities. We account for contingencies such as these in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. SFAS No. 5 requires us to record an estimated loss contingency when information available prior to issuance of our financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for contingencies arising from contractual or legal proceedings requires management to use its best judgment when estimating an accrual related to such contingencies. As additional information becomes known, our accrual for a loss contingency could fluctuate, thereby creating variability in our results of operations from period to period. Likewise, an actual loss arising from a loss contingency which significantly exceeds the amount accrued for in our financial statements could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period in which such actual loss becomes known. Results of Operations As a Percentage of Net Sales The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of our net sales represented by certain income statement data and the change in certain income statement data from period to period. This table should be read in conjunction with the discussion that follows: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2005 2004 2003 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales, including certain buying, distribution and occupancy costs 59.1 61.1 64.3 Gross profit 40.9 38.9 35.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 23.0 24.2 25.0 Income from operations 17.9 14.7 10.7 Interest income 0.3 0.3 0.4 Other income Other expenses (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Income before income taxes 18.1 14.8 10.9 Income tax expense 7.2 6.0 4.4 Net income 10.9 % 8.8 % 6.5 % Period over Period Change: Net sales 51.0 % 29.7 % 21.1 % Gross profit 58.7 % 41.6 % 32.7 % Income from operations 83.8 % 77.8 % 78.0 % Net income 87.1 % 76.5 % 82.7 % 18 Table of Contents Operating Leases We lease our retail stores under operating leases. Many of the lease agreements contain rent holidays, rent escalation clauses and contingent rent provisions or some combination of these items. We recognize rent expense on a straight line basis over the accounting lease term. In a February 2005 letter to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC clarified its position regarding certain lease accounting practices. The SECs letter specifically addressed the depreciable life of leasehold improvements, rent holidays and landlord tenant incentives. Based upon the SECs conclusions included in their letter, we reviewed our historical treatment of these lease issues to ensure our accounting treatment reflected the SECs conclusions. Historically, we had recorded rent expense on a straight line basis over the lease period commencing on the date the store opened. The lease period did not include the construction period to make the lease space suitable for operations during which time we were not permitted to occupy the space for retail purposes. We changed our straight line period to include this construction period in our calculation of rent expense over the lease term, which results in an accounting lease term that equals or exceeds the time period used for depreciation. Therefore, for purposes of calculating straight line rent expense, the commencement date of the lease term reflects the date we take possession of the building for initial construction and setup. We had also historically classified tenant improvement allowances on our consolidated balance sheets as a reduction of property and equipment. The related amortization was classified as a reduction of depreciation expense on our consolidated statements of income. Our consolidated statements of cash flows historically reflected tenant improvement allowances as a reduction of capital expenditures within cash flows from investing activities. We changed the classification of tenant improvement allowances on our consolidated financial statements to reflect such items as deferred rent that will be amortized as a reduction of rent expense over the straight line period. Furthermore, tenant improvement allowance activity is now presented as part of cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. After assessing our findings using the guidance in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, we recorded a cumulative adjustment of $4.6 million, net of tax, which reduced net income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net sales in fiscal 2005 increased by 51.0% to $827.8 million from $548.4 million in the prior fiscal year. The $279.4 million increase was primarily attributable to a $269.6 million, or 50.8% increase, in retail segment sales. Free People wholesale sales contributed $9.8 million or 1.8%, excluding sales to our retail segment, to the increase. The growth in our retail segment sales during fiscal 2005 was driven by a $131.5 million increase in non comparable and new store net sales, a $95.3 million or 21.6% increase in comparable store sales and an increase in direct to consumer sales of $42.8 million or 83.6%. The increase in comparable store net sales was comprised of a 24.0%, 51.0% and 19.7% increase for Anthropologie, Free People and Urban Outfitters, respectively. The increase in net sales attributable to non comparable and new stores was primarily the result of opening 28 new stores in fiscal 2005 and 21 new stores in fiscal 2004 that are considered non comparable during fiscal 2005. Comparable store net sales increases were principally the result of an increase in the number of transactions and average sales prices resulting from higher initial price points which more than offset a modest increase in markdowns. Comparable store sales continue to significantly exceed our plan thus far during fiscal 2006. Direct to consumer net sales increased over the prior year primarily due to additional customer response related to the circulation of approximately 9.6 million additional catalogs, increased traffic to the web sites and improvements in the average order value at both Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie. The increase in Free People wholesale sales was driven by an increase in customer response to our fashion offerings. 19 Table of Contents Gross profit in fiscal 2005 increased to 40.9% of net sales or $338.8 million from $213.5 million or 38.9% of net sales in fiscal 2004. Improvements to initial margins due to better merchandise sourcing and the leveraging of store related occupancy costs, driven by the comparable store sales increases, accounted for the majority of this increase. This combined increase more than offset the $7.7 million, or 1.0% of net sales, multi year cumulative charge to accelerate deferred rent for store locations resulting from our review of our historical method of accounting for certain operating leases. Total inventories at January 31, 2005 increased by 56.5% to $99.0 million from $63.2 million in the prior fiscal year. The increase primarily related to the acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores. On a comparable store basis, inventories increased by 19.8% versus the prior fiscal year. We anticipate making similar investments in connection with new store openings in fiscal 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2005 decreased to 23.0% of net sales versus 24.2% of net sales for fiscal 2004. This improvement was primarily attributable to the leveraging of store level expenses as a result of the increases in the comparable store sales and leveraging of fixed expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2005 increased to $190.4 million from $132.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The increase primarily related to the operating expenses of new and non comparable stores. Accordingly, income from operations increased to 17.9% of net sales or $148.4 million for fiscal 2005 compared to 14.7% of net sales or $80.7 million for fiscal 2004. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 39.8% of income for fiscal 2005 compared to 40.5% of income for fiscal 2004. This decrease was primarily attributable to a lower effective state income tax rate due to a change in the weight of sales, property and income apportioned to lower tax jurisdictions. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this report, for a reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate. Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 Net sales in fiscal 2004 increased by 29.7% to $548.4 million from $422.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The $125.6 million increase was primarily attributable to a $126.1 million, or 31.2% increase, in retail segment sales, offset in part by a slight decline in Free People wholesale sales of $0.5 million, excluding sales to our retail segment. The growth in our retail segment sales during fiscal 2004 was driven by a $61.6 million increase in non comparable and new store net sales, a $45.1 million or 12.9% increase in comparable store sales and an increase in direct to consumer sales of $19.4 million or 61.1%. The increase in comparable store net sales was comprised of a 12.6% and 13.1% increase for Anthropologie and Urban Outfitters, respectively. The increase in net sales attributable to non comparable and new stores was primarily the result of opening 21 new stores in fiscal 2004 and 13 new stores in fiscal 2003 that are considered non comparable during fiscal 2004. Comparable store net sales increases were principally the result of an increase in the number of transactions and average sales prices resulting from higher initial price points and a lower proportion of markdowns. Direct to consumer net sales increased over the prior year primarily due to additional customer response related to the initial circulation of 3 million new Urban Outfitters catalogs and increased traffic to the Urban Outfitters web site. Anthropologie also contributed to the direct to consumer net sales growth by increasing circulation of the Anthropologie catalog to approximately 13.3 million catalogs, including a new Winter Essentials catalog, increased traffic to the Anthropologie web site, and an improvement in the average order value. Gross profit during fiscal 2004 increased to 38.9% of net sales or $213.5 million from $150.8 million or 35.7% of net sales in fiscal 2003. Improvements to initial margins due to better sourcing and a reduction in markdown requirements accounted for the majority of the increase. Total inventories at January 31, 2004 increased by 26.5% to $63.2 million from $50.0 million in the prior fiscal year primarily related to the acquisition of inventory to stock new retail stores. Comparable store inventories increased slightly by 0.3%. 20 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2004 decreased to 24.2% of net sales versus 25.0% of net sales for fiscal 2003. This improvement was primarily attributable to the leveraging of store level expenses as a result of the increases in the comparable store sales and leveraging of fixed expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2004 increased to $132.8 million from $105.4 million in the prior fiscal year. The increase primarily related to the operating expenses of new and non comparable stores. Accordingly, our income from operations increased to 14.7% of net sales or $80.7 million for fiscal 2004 compared to 10.7% of net sales or $45.4 million for fiscal 2003. Our effective tax rate of 40.5% remained the same for fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this report, for a reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $219.1 million as of January 31, 2005 as compared to $139.5 million as of January 31, 2004 and $95.1 million as of January 31, 2003. Increases in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities since January 31, 2004 were primarily a result of cash provided by operating activities. As of January 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, our net working capital was $189.6 million, $118.1 million and $101.5 million for these years, respectively. The change in net working capital is primarily due to the increase in our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and inventories that have increased in order to support our current growth. During the last three years, we have mainly satisfied our cash requirements through our cash flow from operations. Our primary uses of cash have been to open new stores and purchase inventories. We have also continued to invest in our direct to consumer efforts and in our United Kingdom and Ireland subsidiaries. Capital expenditures, net of tenant improvement allowances included in deferred rent for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $60.1 million, $33.1 million and $22.2 million respectively, and were primarily used to expand and support our store base. During fiscal 2006, we plan to construct and open 30 to 32 new stores, renovate certain existing stores, increase our catalog circulation by 4 million, to 30 million catalogs, and purchase inventory for our stores and direct to consumer business at levels appropriate to maintain our planned sales growth. We plan to increase the level of capital expenditures during fiscal 2006 to approximately $100 million, primarily to expand our store base, begin construction of our new home office campus and purchase equipment for our new distribution center in South Carolina. Both our new store, catalog and inventory investments have the ability to generate positive cash flow within a year. Improvements to our new home office campus and distribution facilities are necessary to adequately support our growth. We expect to spend between $40 and $50 million to improve our new home office campus, net of potential incentive credits, over the next three years, most of which will be capitalized based on the useful life of the improvements and fixtures. The purchase of distribution center machinery, equipment and personal property will approximate $3 million. Accumulated cash and future cash from operations, as well as available credit under our line of credit facility, are expected to fund our commitments and all such expansion related cash needs at least through fiscal 2008. On September 30, 2004, we renewed and amended our line of credit facility (the Line). The Line is a three year $35.0 million revolving credit facility with an accordion feature allowing an increase in available credit to $50.0 million at our discretion, subject to a seven day request period. The Line contains a sub limit for borrowings by our European subsidiaries that are guaranteed by Urban Outfitters, Inc. Cash advances bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.50% to 1.60% based on our achievement of prescribed adjusted debt ratios. The Line subjects us to various restrictive covenants, including maintenance of certain financial ratios and covenants such as fixed charge coverage and adjusted debt. The covenants also include limitations on our capital expenditures, ability to repurchase shares and the payment of cash dividends. As of January 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Line. As of and during the twelve months ended January 31, 2005, there were no borrowings under the Line. Outstanding letters of credit and stand by letters of credit under the Line totaled approximately $22.7 million as of January 31, 2005. The available borrowing, including the accordion feature, under the Line was $27.3 million as of January 31, 2005. 21 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio includes certain auction rate securities that have been reclassified from cash equivalents to short term marketable securities in the January 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet. Auction rate securities are variable rate bonds tied to short term interest rates with maturities on the face of the securities in excess of 90 days. Auction rate securities have interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined short term intervals, usually every 7, 28 or 35 days. They trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer. Interest paid during a given period is based upon the interest rate determined during the prior auction. Although these securities are issued and rated as long term bonds, they are priced and traded as short term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the interest rate reset. We had historically classified these instruments as cash equivalents if the period between interest rate resets was 90 days or less, which was based on our ability to either liquidate our holdings or roll our investment over to the next reset period. Based upon our re evaluation of the maturity dates associated with the underlying bonds, we have reclassified our auction rate securities, previously classified as cash equivalents, as short term marketable securities in the January 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet. We have entered into agreements that create contractual obligations and commercial commitments. These obligations and commitments will have an impact on future liquidity and the availability of capital resources. Accumulated cash and future cash from operations, as well as available credit under our line of credit facility, are expected to fund such obligations and commitments. The tables noted below present a summary of these obligations and commitments as of January 31, 2005: Contractual Obligations Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Description Total Obligations Less Than One Year One to Three Years Four to Five Years More Than Five Years Operating leases (1) $ 521,491 $ 62,064 $ 125,980 $ 118,292 $ 215,155 Purchase orders (2) 129,450 129,450 Construction contracts (3) 10,056 10,056 Capital lease (4) 60 60 Total contractual obligations $ 661,057 $ 201,630 $ 125,980 $ 118,292 $ 215,155 (1) Includes store operating leases, which generally provide for payment of direct operating costs in addition to rent. The obligation amounts shown above only reflect our future minimum lease payments as the direct operating costs fluctuate over the term of the lease. Additionally, there are ten locations where a percentage of sales are paid in lieu of a fixed minimum rent that are not reflected in the above table. Total rent expense related to these seven locations was approximately $1,797,000 for fiscal 2005. The leases pertaining to our Urban Outfitters stores at Covent Gardens and Oxford Street only specify our rent obligation for a five year period. The minimum rent obligation is then subject to review every five years. Included in the table above is an estimate of our rent obligation on these properties for the first five years. Amounts noted above include commitments for 19 executed leases for stores not opened as of January 31, 2005. (2) Includes an estimate of un fulfilled purchase orders for merchandise ordered from our vendors in the normal course of business, which are liquidated within 12 months. (3) Includes store construction contracts with contractors, fully liquidated upon the completion of construction, which is typically within 12 months. (4) During fiscal 2002, the Company entered into a capital lease for computer equipment with a cost of approximately $609,000, which was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 upon receipt of the related equipment in accordance with the contract. The lease provides for the payment of interest as well as principal. 22 Table of Contents Commercial Commitments Amount of Commitment Per Period (in thousands) Description TotalAmountsCommitted LessThanOneYear OnetoThreeYears FourtoFiveYears MoreThanFiveYears Line of credit (1) $ 22,341 $ 22,341 $ $ $ Standby letters of credit 374 374 Total commercial commitments $ 22,715 $ 22,715 $ $ $ (1) Consists solely of outstanding letter of credit commitments in connection with inventory purchases. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of and for the three years ended January 31, 2005, we were not party to any off balance sheet arrangements. Other Matters Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which revised SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123R addresses the accounting for share based payment transactions with employees and other third parties, eliminates the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using APB Opinion No. 25 and requires that the compensation costs relating to such transactions be recognized in the statement of income. The amount of compensation cost will be measured based on the grant date fair value of equity or liability instruments issued. Compensation cost will be recognized over the period that an employee provides service in exchange for the award. The full impact of SFAS No. 123R adoption cannot be predicted at this time as it will depend on levels of share based payment granted in the future. SFAS No. 123R also requires that benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. We are unable to estimate what those amounts will be in the future as they depend on, among other things, when employees exercise stock options. SFAS No. 123R is effective as of the first interim period of the fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. We are currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS No. 123R and plan to adopt it in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. In December 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. FSP No. 109 2 provides guidance under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, with respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) on enterprises income tax expense and deferred tax liability. FSP No. 109 2 states that an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Jobs Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109. Based upon our preliminary evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision, we do not believe it will have any impact on our financial position or results of operations. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs. This Statement amends the guidance in Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material. SFAS No. 151 requires 23 Table of Contents that those items be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of so abnormal. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of SFAS No. 151 are effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We are currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS No. 151, but do not believe it will have any impact on our financial position or results of operations. In March 2004, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments (EITF No. 03 1), but delayed the recognition and measurement provisions of EITF No. 03 1 in September 2004. For reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004, only the disclosure requirements for available for sale securities and cost method investments are required. EITF No. 03 1 requires a company with investments in an unrealized loss position for which other than temporary impairments have not been recognized to disclose the aggregate amount of unrealized losses and aggregate related fair value of such investments. In addition, the factors taken into consideration which led to the conclusion that such unrealized losses are not other than temporary must also be disclosed. The Company adopted the disclosure requirements in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and such disclosures are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Seasonality and Quarterly Results While we have been profitable in each of our last 60 operating quarters, our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our highest sales levels have historically occurred during the five month period from August 1 to December 31 of each year (the back to school and holiday periods). Sales generated during these periods have traditionally had a significant impact on our results of operations. Any decreases in sales for these periods or in the availability of working capital needed in the months preceding these periods could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. While the comparable store sales trend thus far during fiscal 2006 continues to significantly exceed our plan, results of operations in any one fiscal quarter are not indicative of the results of operations that can be expected for any other fiscal quarter or for the full fiscal year. Our results of operations may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of the amount and timing of expenses incurred in connection with, and sales contributed by, new stores, store expansions and the integration of new stores into our operations or by the size and timing of catalog mailings and web site traffic for our direct to consumer operations. Fluctuations in the bookings and shipments of wholesale merchandise between quarters can also have positive or negative effects on earnings during the quarters. 24 Table of Contents The following tables, which are unaudited, set forth our net sales, gross profit, net income and net income per common share (basic and diluted) for each quarter during the last two fiscal years and the amount of such net sales and net income, respectively, as a percentage of annual net sales and annual net income. Fiscal 2005 Quarter Ended April 30, 2004 July 31, 2004 Oct. 31, 2004 Jan. 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 170,290 $ 189,484 $ 216,353 $ 251,623 Gross profit 69,894 77,018 91,458 100,380 Net income 16,869 20,508 26,036 27,076 Net income per common share basic 0.21 0.25 0.32 0.33 Net income per common share diluted 0.20 0.25 0.31 0.32 As a Percentage of Fiscal Year: Net sales 21 % 23 % 26 % 30 % Net income 19 % 22 % 29 % 30 % Fiscal 2004 Quarter Ended April 30, 2003 July 31, 2003 Oct. 31, 2003 Jan. 31, 2004 (dollars in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 107,028 $ 122,879 $ 142,331 $ 176,123 Gross profit 37,933 45,648 56,811 73,081 Net income 6,393 9,467 14,087 18,429 Net income per common share basic 0.08 0.12 0.18 0.23 Net income per common share diluted 0.08 0.12 0.17 0.22 As a Percentage of Fiscal Year: Net sales 20 % 22 % 26 % 32 % Net income 13 % 20 % 29 % 38 % Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to the following types of market risks fluctuations in the purchase price of merchandise, as well as other goods and services; the value of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar; and changes in interest rates. Our inventory turnover rate and its historical ability to pass through the impact of any generalized changes in its cost of goods to its customers through pricing adjustments, commodity and other product risks are not expected to be material. We purchase substantially all of our merchandise in U.S. dollars, including a portion of the goods for its stores located in Canada and Europe. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of January 31, 2005, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities consisted primarily of funds invested in tax exempt municipal bonds rated AA or better, auction rate securities rated AA or better and money market accounts, which bear interest at a variable rate. Due to the average maturity and conservative nature of our investment portfolio, we believe a sudden change in interest rates would not have a material effect on the value of our investment portfolio. As the interest rates on a material portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are variable, a change in interest rates earned on the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities would impact interest income along with cash flows, but would not impact the fair market value of the related underlying instruments. 
 
