FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20030108103213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES ------------- SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ---------------------------------- Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------------- ------------------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 8, 2003 CARNIVAL CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Republic of Panama 1-9610 59-1562976 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue, Miami, Florida 33178-2428 (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (305) 599-2600
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure. On January 8, 2003, Carnival Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release with respect to the proposed implementation of a dual listed company structure with P&O Princess Cruises plc ("P&O Princess") and related offer to exchange up to 20% of P&O Princess' outstanding ordinary shares for shares of the common stock of the Registrant. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits Exhibit Exhibit Description 99.1 Press Release of the Registrant dated January 8, 2002. 99.2 Offer and Implementation Agreement, dated January 8, 2003, between the Registrant and P&O Princess. 99.3 Form of Equalization and Governance Agreement between the Registrant and P&O Princess. 99.4 Form of SVE Special Voting Deed. 99.5 Form of Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant. 99.6 Form of Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant. 99.7 Form of Amended Memorandum of Association of P&O Princess. 99.8 Form of Amended Articles of Association of P&O Princess. 99.9 Form of Carnival Deed of Guarantee between the Registrant and P&O Princess in favor of creditors. 99.10 Form of P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee between the Registrant and P&O Princess in favor of creditors. 99.11 Form of Carnival Deed by the Registrant in favor of P&O Princess shareholders. 99.12 Directors of the Registrant and P&O Princess.
Signatures Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: January 8, 2003 CARNIVAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Kenneth D. Dubbin -------------------------- Kenneth D. Dubbin Vice President
Exhibit List Exhibit Exhibit Description 99.1 Press Release of the Registrant dated January 8, 2002. 99.2 Offer and Implementation Agreement, dated January 8, 2003, between the Registrant and P&O Princess. 99.3 Form of Equalization and Governance Agreement between the Registrant and P&O Princess. 99.4 Form of SVE Special Voting Deed. 99.5 Form of Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant. 99.6 Form of Amended and Restated By-laws of the Registrant. 99.7 Form of Amended Memorandum of Association of P&O Princess. 99.8 Form of Amended Articles of Association of P&O Princess. 99.9 Form of Carnival Deed of Guarantee between the Registrant and P&O Princess in favor of creditors. 99.10 Form of P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee between the Registrant and P&O Princess in favor of creditors. 99.11 Form of Carnival Deed by the Registrant in favor of P&O Princess shareholders. 99.12 Directors of the Registrant and P&O Princess.

Exhibit 99.1 NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN OR INTO AUSTRALIA, CANADA OR JAPAN 8 January 2003 CARNIVAL CORPORATION RECOMMENDED DLC TRANSACTION WITH P&O PRINCESS AND PARTIAL SHARE OFFER Micky Arison, the Chairman and Chief Executive of Carnival, said: "We are extremely pleased that the board of P&O Princess has recommended the Carnival DLC transaction to P&O Princess shareholders. Our DLC structure provides the current P&O Princess shareholders with the opportunity to participate in the largest cruise vacation group in the most exciting and dynamic segment of the leisure travel industry. I look forward to working with Peter Ratcliffe, who will be an executive director of both companies. We urge P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders to approve the DLC transaction at the forthcoming shareholder meetings, and we look forward to completion early in the second quarter of 2003." SUMMARY The board of Carnival announces that Carnival and P&O Princess have today entered into an agreement to combine the two companies through a dual listed company structure. The board of P&O Princess has recommended the DLC transaction to P&O Princess shareholders. As a result, all the pre-conditions to Carnival's DLC proposal of 24 October 2002 have been satisfied. The combination of Carnival and P&O Princess will create the largest cruise vacation group in the world, based on revenue, passengers carried and available capacity. The Combined Group will have a wide range of complementary brands, a significant presence in the key cruise vacation regions worldwide, an enhanced ability to attract customers from other vacation options to the cruise sector, a strong balance sheet from which to drive future capacity and growth and significant opportunities to benefit from disseminating best operating practices throughout the Combined Group. Although the companies will continue to be separate legal entities, with their own board of directors and senior management, Carnival and P&O Princess will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise. The companies' economic interests will be aligned and they will pursue common objectives. The boards of Carnival and P&O Princess will be identical and the Combined Group will be managed by a single senior executive management team. Accordingly, as part of the DLC transaction, P&O Princess intends to change its name to Carnival (UK) plc at the P&O Princess EGM. The existing well established brands operated by P&O Princess will not be affected by the change to the parent company name. Under the DLC transaction, the equalisation ratio will be 0.3004 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess share. The "look through" value per P&O Princess share under the DLC transaction is 481 pence and values the entire existing issued share capital of P&O Princess at approximately (Pounds)3.3 billion. Carnival shareholders will hold approximately 74 per cent. and P&O Princess shareholders will hold approximately 26 per cent. of the equity of the Combined Group. In connection with the DLC transaction, Carnival is making the Partial Share Offer. The Partial Share Offer will enable P&O Princess shareholders to exchange P&O Princess shares for Carnival shares on the basis of 0.3004 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess share up to, in aggregate, a maximum of 20 per cent. of P&O Princess' issued share capital. The existing primary listings of Carnival on the New York Stock Exchange and P&O Princess on the London Stock Exchange will be maintained and the existing full index participations of Carnival in the S&P 500 and of P&O Princess in the FTSE 100 are expected to be retained. The Combined Group will continue to provide an investor relations programme in both the US and the UK.
The documentation relating to the DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer will be filed with the SEC and the UKLA, as applicable, as soon as practicable. A copy of the SEC filings will be available on the SEC website shortly after filing. Carnival and P&O Princess currently expect that the documentation will be posted to shareholders in late February/early March following review by the SEC and UKLA. The implementation of the DLC transaction is subject to, among other things, shareholder approval by both P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders at their respective shareholder meetings. Carnival and P&O Princess currently expect these meetings to occur in late March/early April and full details will be contained in the documentation to be sent to P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders. The DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer are expected to complete early in the second quarter of 2003. This summary should be read in conjunction with the full text of this announcement. Enquiries: Carnival Telephone: +1 305 599 2600 Micky Arison Howard Frank Merrill Lynch Telephone: +44 20 7628 1000 Philip Yates Mark Brooker Stuart Faulkner UBS Warburg Telephone: +44 20 7567 8000 Tom Cooper Alistair Defriez Philip Ellick Financial Dynamics Telephone: +44 20 7831 3113 Nic Bennett The directors of Carnival accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Carnival (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure such is the case), the information contained herein for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information except that the only responsibility accepted by them for the information in this announcement relating to P&O Princess which has been compiled from published sources is to ensure that the information has been correctly and fairly reproduced and presented. Merrill Lynch International and UBS Warburg Ltd., a subsidiary of UBS AG, are acting as joint financial advisors and joint corporate brokers exclusively to Carnival and no-one else in connection with the Carnival DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer and will not be responsible to anyone other than Carnival for providing the protections afforded to clients respectively of Merrill Lynch International and UBS Warburg Ltd. as the case may be or for providing advice in relation to the Carnival DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer. SHAREHOLDER DISCLOSURE OBLIGATIONS Any person who, alone or acting together with any other person(s) pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal) to acquire or control securities of P&O Princess or Carnival, owns or controls, or become the owner or controller, directly or indirectly of one per cent. or more of any class of securities of P&O Princess or Carnival is generally required under the provisions of Rule 8 of the Takeover Code to disclose to a Regulatory Information Service ("RIS") and the Panel of every dealing in such securities during the period from 16 December 2001, the date of the announcement of the original Offer, until the closing of the DLC transaction. Dealings by Carnival or P&O Princess or by their respective "associates" (within the definitions set out in the Takeover Code) in any class of securities of Carnival or P&O Princess must also be disclosed. Please consult your financial advisor immediately if you believe this rule may be applicable to you. Disclosure should be made on an appropriate form before 12 noon (London time) on the business day following the date of the dealing transaction. These disclosures should be registered with a RIS (e.g. the Company Announcements Office of the London Stock Exchange (fax number: +44 20 7588 6057)) and to the Panel (fax number: +44 20 7256 9386). CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Certain statements in this announcement constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Carnival Corporation has tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as "anticipate", "assume", "believe", "expect", "forecast", "future", "intend", "plan" and words and terms of similar substance in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. These forward-looking statements, including those which may impact the forecasting of Carnival's net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy or business prospects, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause Carnival's
actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions which may impact levels of disposable income of consumers and the net revenue yields for Carnival's cruise products; consumer demand for cruises and other vacation options; other vacation industry competition; effects on consumer demand of armed conflicts, political instability, terrorism, adverse media publicity and the availability of air service; shifts in consumer booking patterns; increases in vacation industry capacity, including cruise capacity; continued availability of attractive port destinations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes and disruptions in equity, financial and insurance markets; Carnival's financial and contractual counterparties' ability to perform; Carnival's ability to implement its brand strategy, Carnival's ability to implement its shipbuilding program and to continue to expand its business worldwide; Carnival's ability to attract and retain shipboard crew; changes in foreign currency and interest rates and increases in security, food, fuel, and insurance costs; delivery of new ships on schedule and at the contracted prices; weather patterns and natural disasters; unscheduled ship repairs and drydocking; incidents involving cruise ships; impact of pending or threatened litigation; Carnival's ability to successfully implement cost improvement plans; the continuing financial viability and/or consolidation of Carnival's travel agent distribution system; Carnival's ability to successfully integrate business acquisitions and changes in laws and regulations. These risks may not be exhaustive. Carnival operates in a continually changing business environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. Carnival cannot predict such risks nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such risks on its business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks may cause actual results to differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Carnival undertakes no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. CARNIVAL PLANS TO FILE WITH THE US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION IN CONNECTION WITH ITS DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL (WHICH INCLUDES A PARTIAL SHARE OFFER TO P&O PRINCESS SHAREHOLDERS) A REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4/PROXY STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE 14A, AS WELL AS A REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4/STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE TO. BOTH REGISTRATION STATEMENTS WILL CONTAIN A PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL. CARNIVAL PLANS TO MAIL TO SHAREHOLDERS OF P&O PRINCESS THE PROSPECTUS CONTAINED IN THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT/SCHEDULE TO AFTER IT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE BY THE SEC. CARNIVAL PLANS TO MAIL THE PROXY STATEMENT AND THE PROSPECTUS CONTAINED IN THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT TO ITS SHAREHOLDERS AT OR ABOUT THE SAME TIME. THESE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT AND THE SCHEDULE TO WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT CARNIVAL, P&O PRINCESS, THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL AND RELATED MATTERS. STOCKHOLDERS SHOULD READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT, THE SCHEDULE TO AND THE OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL CAREFULLY BEFORE THEY MAKE ANY DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPOSAL. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT, THE SCHEDULE TO AND ALL OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL AND PRIOR PRECONDITIONAL OFFER WILL BE AVAILABLE WHEN FILED FREE OF CHARGE AT THE SEC'S WEB SITE, AT WWW.SEC.GOV. IN ADDITION, THESE DOCUMENTS WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS FREE OF CHARGE BY WRITING TO TIM GALLAGHER AT CARNIVAL CORPORATION, CARNIVAL PLACE, 3655 N.W. 87 AVENUE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, 33178-2428. IN ADDITION TO THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT, THE SCHEDULE TO AND THE OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL, CARNIVAL IS OBLIGATED TO FILE ANNUAL, QUARTERLY AND CURRENT REPORTS, PROXY STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION WITH THE SEC. PERSONS MAY READ AND COPY ANY REPORTS, STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION FILED WITH THE SEC AT THE SEC'S PUBLIC REFERENCE ROOM AT 450 FIFTH STREET, N.W., WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549. PLEASE CALL THE SEC at 1-800-732-0330 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE PUBLIC REFERENCE ROOM. FILINGS WITH THE SEC ALSO ARE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC FROM COMMERCIAL DOCUMENT-RETRIEVAL SERVICES AND THROUGH THE WEB SITE MAINTAINED BY THE SEC AT WWW.SEC.GOV. THE IDENTITIES OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION OF CARNIVAL SHAREHOLDERS FOR PURPOSES OF RULE 14a-12(a)(1) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND THEIR INTERESTS IN THE OFFER AND TRANSACTIONS RELATED TO IT ARE SET FORTH IN APPENDIX V TO THE FULL TEXT OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT.
NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN OR INTO AUSTRALIA, CANADA OR JAPAN 8 January 2003 CARNIVAL CORPORATION RECOMMENDED DLC TRANSACTION WITH P&O PRINCESS AND PARTIAL SHARE OFFER 1. Introduction The board of Carnival announces that Carnival and P&O Princess have today entered into an agreement to combine the two companies through a dual listed company structure. The board of P&O Princess has recommended the DLC transaction to P&O Princess shareholders. As a result, all the pre-conditions to Carnival's DLC proposal of 24 October 2002 have been satisfied. Under the Implementation Agreement, and subject to certain conditions described in this announcement, the companies will enter into agreements and modify their constitutional documents (the forms of which have been agreed with P&O Princess) in order to implement the DLC transaction. In addition, Carnival announces the terms of the Partial Share Offer, under which P&O Princess shareholders will be able, subject to certain conditions, to exchange P&O Princess shares for Carnival shares. The terms of the DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer are as announced by Carnival on 24 October 2002. As all the pre-conditions to the DLC proposal have been satisfied and the terms of the DLC transaction have been announced in this document, Carnival, in agreement with the Panel, will not be proceeding with its share exchange offer of 7 February 2002. 2. The DLC transaction The DLC transaction is a means of enabling Carnival and P&O Princess to combine their management and operations as if they were a single economic enterprise, while retaining their separate legal identities. This will be accomplished through contractual arrangements and amendments to each company's constitutional documents. In addition, the constitutional documents of the two companies will be harmonised, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, to ensure their corporate procedures are substantially similar. As part of the DLC transaction, P&O Princess intends to change its name to Carnival (UK) plc at the P&O Princess EGM. The existing primary listings of Carnival on the New York Stock Exchange and P&O Princess on the London Stock Exchange will be maintained and the existing full index participations of Carnival in the S&P 500 and of P&O Princess in the FTSE 100 are expected to be retained. The Combined Group will continue to provide an investor relations programme in both the US and the UK. The DLC structure will allow P&O Princess shareholders who are required, or wish, to hold shares in a UK-listed company included in the FTSE indices to continue to do so and, as a result, to continue to participate as a shareholder in the global cruise industry through P&O Princess. The equalisation ratio in the DLC transaction will initially be 0.3004 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess share. On implementation of the DLC transaction, it is intended that the P&O Princess shares will be reorganised such that one P&O Princess share will be equivalent to one Carnival share. The ratio of P&O Princess shares to P&O Princess ADSs will also be adjusted so that one P&O Princess ADS will be equivalent to one P&O Princess share and also to one Carnival share. Carnival shareholders will hold approximately 74 per cent. of the equity of the Combined Group and existing P&O Princess shareholders will hold approximately 26 per cent. The Conditions of the DLC transaction are set out in Part A of Appendix I.
The "look through" value per P&O Princess share under the DLC transaction, based on the closing price of $25.77 per Carnival share on 7 January 2003, is 481 pence. This represents: . a premium of 51.6 per cent. to the closing middle-market price of 317 pence per P&O Princess share on 19 November 2001, the last business day prior to the announcement of the Royal Caribbean DLC transaction; and . a premium of 8.6 per cent. to the closing middle-market price of 442.5 pence per P&O Princess share on 7 January 2003, the last business day prior to the date of this announcement. 3. The Partial Share Offer In connection with the DLC transaction, Carnival is making the Partial Share Offer. The Partial Share Offer enables P&O Princess shareholders to elect to exchange P&O Princess shares for Carnival shares on the basis of 0.3004 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess share and 1.2016 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess ADS. P&O Princess shareholders can elect to accept the Partial Share Offer in respect of all or a portion of their P&O Princess shareholdings. P&O Princess shareholders who elect to accept the Partial Share Offer in respect of more than 20 per cent. of their holdings of P&O Princess shares will have their elections satisfied in full provided the total elections for the Partial Share Offer do not exceed, in aggregate, 20 per cent. of P&O Princess' issued share capital. If the aggregate amount of elections under the Partial Share Offer exceeds 20 per cent. of the issued share capital of P&O Princess when the Partial Share Offer is made, P&O Princess shareholders will receive Carnival shares as follows: .. P&O Princess shareholders who elect to accept the Partial Share Offer in respect of 20 per cent. or less of their holdings of P&O Princess shares will have their elections satisfied in full; and .. P&O Princess shareholders who elect to accept the Partial Share Offer in respect of more than 20 per cent. of their holdings of P&O Princess shares will have their election in respect of 20 per cent. of their holdings satisfied in full and their election in respect of the excess over 20 per cent. scaled back pro rata based on the total number of P&O Princess shares tendered into the Partial Share Offer. If the Partial Share Offer is taken up in full, approximately 79 per cent. of the equity of the Combined Group will be held by Carnival shareholders (including approximately five per cent. held by those P&O Princess shareholders who have elected for the Partial Share Offer) and approximately 21 per cent. by P&O Princess shareholders who have retained their P&O Princess shares. The equalisation ratio will not be affected by the level of the take-up of the Partial Share Offer. The P&O Princess board is not making any recommendation as to whether P&O Princess shareholders should tender or refrain from tendering their P&O Princess shares. The Partial Share Offer will initially be open for acceptance until 5.00 p.m., London time, 12.00 noon, New York City time, on the date of the P&O Princess EGM (which is expected to commence at 11.00 a.m. London time). The Partial Share Offer is subject to the conditions set out in Part B of Appendix I which include the implementation of the DLC structure. The DLC structure is expected to be implemented shortly after the P&O Princess EGM. The Partial Share Offer will not close if the DLC structure is not implemented. If the result of the shareholder vote at the P&O Princess EGM has not been announced by 5.00 p.m., London time, 12.00 noon, New York City time, on the date of the P&O Princess EGM, or if any other condition to the Partial Share Offer has not been satisfied or waived by such date and time, Carnival will, with the permission of the Panel, extend the acceptance deadline for the Partial Share Offer and will announce the new deadline. Carnival does not envisage it will be necessary to extend the Partial Share Offer, but in the event that an extension is made, it is likely to be for a period of less than 14 days.
P&O Princess shares acquired under the Partial Share Offer will be acquired free from all liens, charges and encumbrances and with all rights attached thereto. P&O Princess shareholders will be entitled to retain all dividends paid or payable on such P&O Princess shares in respect of the period from the date of this announcement until the date the Partial Share Offer becomes wholly unconditional. The Carnival shares will be issued and credited as fully paid and will rank pari passu in all respects with the existing Carnival shares. Fractions of Carnival shares will not be issued. Application will be made for the Carnival shares to be issued under the Partial Share Offer to be admitted to listing on the NYSE. Carnival shares will not be listed on the London Stock Exchange. A P&O Princess shareholder will be able to elect for the Partial Share Offer whether or not such shareholder has voted in favour of the resolution to implement the DLC transaction. The Partial Share Offer will be registered under, and will be subject to, the applicable US securities laws and regulations. Carnival and P&O Princess have been advised that these include a rule issued by the SEC that will prohibit any shareholder from tendering into the Partial Share Offer a number of P&O Princess shares greater than such shareholder's "net long position" in such shares both at the time of tender and at the completion of the Partial Share Offer. A shareholder's net long position is the excess, if any, of his or her long position in P&O Princess shares over his or her short position in P&O Princess shares, in each case as defined in the rule. While these definitions and the application of this rule can be complex, any P&O Princess shares borrowed under the normal arrangements for stock borrowing in the UK market will normally be included in both the borrower's long position and short position, and thus will not increase the borrower's net long position. Accordingly, such borrowings will not increase the number of P&O Princess shares that the borrower can tender into the Partial Share Offer. In this way, the rule will restrict the ability of P&O Princess shareholders to tender borrowed shares in the Partial Share Offer. In the case of an offer such as the Partial Share Offer, the SEC takes the position that the rule applies to both tenders and borrowings made outside the US. 4. Information on the Combined Group The Combined Group will be the largest cruise vacation group in the world, based on revenues, passengers carried and available capacity. It will have a wide portfolio of complementary brands, both by geography and product offering, and will include some of the best known cruise brands globally. The combination will allow the Combined Group to offer a wider range of vacation choices for its passengers and is expected to enhance its ability to attract passengers from land-based vacations to cruise vacations. The Combined Group's brands will include Carnival Cruise Lines, Princess Cruises, Holland America Line, P&O Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Seabourn Cruise Line, Windstar Cruises, AIDA, A'ROSA, Swan Hellenic, Ocean Village and P&O Cruises (Australia). The Combined Group will serve all of the key cruising destinations, including Alaska, Australia, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, the Hawaiian Islands, the Mexican Riviera, the Mediterranean, New England, the Panama Canal, South America and other exotic destinations worldwide. The Combined Group expects to operate a fleet of 65 cruise ships offering 99,964 lower berths, with 18 additional cruise ships with 42,260 lower berths scheduled to be added over the next three and a half years, and will be a leading provider of cruises to all major cruise destinations outside the Far East. The Combined Group will have one of the youngest fleets among the major cruise vacation operators, with an average expected age of just 7.5 years as of 31 January 2003. The Combined Group will also operate two private destination ports of call in the Caribbean for the exclusive use of its passengers, two river boats and will offer land-based tour packages as part of its vacation product alternatives. For the year ended 30 November 2001, on a pro forma US GAAP basis, the Combined Group would have reported revenues of approximately $7.0 billion and operating income of approximately $1.2 billion. As at 31 August 2002, on a pro forma US GAAP basis, the Combined Group would have had total assets of over $20 billion. Carnival and P&O Princess together carried approximately 4.7 million passengers in fiscal 2002.
5. Benefits of the proposed combination of Carnival and P&O Princess Carnival and P&O Princess believe that the principal benefits of the creation of the Combined Group are as follows: Complementary well-known brands operating globally The Combined Group will be the largest cruise vacation group in the world, based on revenue, passengers carried and available capacity. It will have a wide portfolio of complementary brands, both by geography and product offering, and will include some of the best known cruise brands globally. The combination will allow the Combined Group to offer a wider range of vacation choices for its passengers and is expected to enhance its ability to attract more passengers from land-based vacations. Benefits of sharing best practices and generating cost savings The Combined Group will be managed as if the two companies constituted a single economic enterprise by a single senior executive management team and identical boards of directors. Carnival and P&O Princess expect that the combination will generate cost savings, which are expected to come from the sharing of best practices of the management teams across the Combined Group, achieving operating efficiencies in such areas as purchasing and rationalising support operations in locations served by both companies. Further details regarding the expected cost savings will be set out in the documentation to be sent to shareholders in due course. Financial flexibility and access to capital markets The Combined Group will have substantial financial flexibility, with strong operating cash flow, low leverage and a strong balance sheet and the Combined Group is expected to maintain a strong investment grade credit rating. The Combined Group is also expected to have greater access to capital markets. Carnival's shares will remain listed on the NYSE and are expected to continue to be included in the S&P 500. P&O Princess' shares will remain listed on the London Stock Exchange and are expected to remain eligible for inclusion in the FTSE series of indices and are expected to continue to be included with full weighting in the FTSE 100. High quality combined fleet to enhance growth within the cruise industry Upon completion of the DLC transaction, the Combined Group expects to operate a fleet of 65 cruise ships with an aggregate capacity of 99,964 lower berths. Carnival and P&O Princess together have an additional 18 new cruise ships on order, with an aggregate capacity of 42,260 lower berths, scheduled for delivery in the next three and a half years. Carnival and P&O Princess also expect that the Combined Group will have one of the youngest and most modern fleets in the cruise industry, with an average vessel age (weighted by lower berths) of just 7.5 years expected as at 31 January 2003. The Combined Group expects to deploy its diversified fleet strategically in order to increase its global reach and enter new and developing markets. This strategic deployment is expected to allow the Combined Group to appeal to the largest target audience by providing brands, products and itineraries with the widest appeal in a particular geographic region. Continued participation in the global cruise industry for P&O Princess shareholders as a result of the DLC structure As described above, following the implementation of the DLC structure, P&O Princess is expected to remain included in the FTSE 100. This will allow P&O Princess shareholders who are required or wish to hold shares in a UK-listed company included in the FTSE indices to continue to do so and, as a result, to continue to participate as a shareholder in the global cruise industry through P&O Princess. A share acquisition or exchange offer or other more common means of combining the businesses of Carnival and P&O Princess in
which all P&O Princess shareholders would receive Carnival shares, which are not eligible for inclusion in the FTSE series of indices, and/or a partial cash alternative would not have afforded all P&O Princess shareholders this opportunity. Additionally, the Partial Share Offer for up to 20 per cent. of P&O Princess' share capital allows those P&O Princess shareholders who would prefer to participate in the Combined Group by holding shares in a US listed company the opportunity to do so. 6. Dividends Following completion of the DLC transaction, P&O Princess shareholders will continue to receive dividends declared by P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders will continue to receive dividends declared by Carnival. Dividends in respect of both P&O Princess shares and Carnival shares declared after completion of the DLC transaction will be paid at about the same time and in equalised amounts in accordance with the equalisation ratio disregarding any amounts required to be deducted or withheld in respect of taxes and the amount of any applicable tax credits. Carnival will continue to pay dividends in US dollars. P&O Princess shareholders will continue to have the option to elect to receive dividends in US dollars or pounds sterling in accordance with P&O Princess' existing procedures. In order to align the timing of the dividends of the two companies and to ensure that there is no interruption to the entitlement of quarterly dividends for shareholders of either company as a result of the DLC transaction, the board of P&O Princess has today declared a dividend of 3.0 cents per P&O Princess share in respect of the fourth quarter of the 2002 financial year. This dividend will be paid on 14 March 2003 to P&O Princess shareholders on the P&O Princess share register on 21 February 2003. Carnival expects to pay its regular quarterly dividend at about the same time. Unless they have elected otherwise, P&O Princess ordinary shareholders will receive their dividend in pounds sterling, converted at an exchange rate on 4 March 2003. Elections to receive dividends in US dollars, or to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan, must be made by 28 February 2003. Holders of ADSs will receive their dividend of $0.12 per ADS in US dollars. In recent quarters, Carnival has paid quarterly dividends of 10.5 cents per Carnival share which, based on the equalisation ratio, equates to approximately 3.15 cents per P&O Princess share. In recent quarters, P&O Princess has paid quarterly dividends of 3.0 cents per P&O Princess share. Following completion of the DLC transaction, it is intended that the value of dividends received by P&O Princess shareholders will be consistent with Carnival's regular quarterly dividend. Accordingly, had the Combined Group been in place for the last four quarters, the dividends received by P&O Princess shareholders would have been approximately five per cent. higher. It is intended that the first dividend to be paid by the Combined Group will be declared in April 2003, with a record date in May 2003, and payment date in June 2003. 7. Key features of the DLC transaction Carnival and P&O Princess have entered into the Implementation Agreement which contains provisions governing the implementation of the DLC transaction. In addition, Carnival and P&O Princess have also finalised the agreed forms of the other DLC documents which provide for the operation of the DLC structure following completion of the DLC transaction. Although certain technical changes have been made, the DLC documents are materially the same as those disclosed on 24 October 2002. Copies of the agreed form of the DLC documents will be available as soon as practicable following this announcement on Carnival's website at www.carnivalcorp.com and on the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, copies may be inspected from the date of this announcement during usual business hours on any weekday at the offices of Herbert Smith, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2HS. The key features of the DLC transaction are summarised below.
7.1 Separate entities and listings The companies will continue to be separate legal entities with their own board of directors and senior management, however, Carnival and P&O Princess will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise. The companies' economic interests will be aligned and they will pursue common objectives. The boards of Carnival and P&O Princess will be identical and the Combined Group will be managed by a single senior executive management team. Although they will be operated as if they were a single economic enterprise, P&O Princess and Carnival will remain separate corporations and will maintain separate stock exchange listings. Carnival will continue to have a primary listing on the NYSE and is expected to retain its existing index participations, including its participation in the S&P 500. P&O Princess will continue to have a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is expected to remain eligible for full participation in the FTSE series of indices, including the FTSE 100. In addition, P&O Princess ADSs will continue to be listed on the NYSE for the foreseeable future. 7.2 No transfer of assets The implementation of the DLC transaction will not involve any transfer of assets between the Carnival group and the P&O Princess group. After implementation of the DLC transaction, management of the Combined Group will determine whether assets will be owned by Carnival or P&O Princess as is most efficient and appropriate under the then prevailing circumstances. The Combined Group will comprise all of the assets held by P&O Princess and Carnival immediately prior to the implementation of the DLC transaction. 7.3 Rights of Carnival shareholders and P&O Princess shareholders Carnival shareholders will continue to hold their shares in Carnival. P&O Princess shareholders will continue to hold their shares in P&O Princess and/or become shareholders in Carnival if they accept the Partial Share Offer. P&O Princess shareholders will continue to receive dividends from P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders will continue to receive dividends from Carnival. However, the economic and voting interests of Carnival shareholders and P&O Princess shareholders will effectively be identical as they will participate in the Combined Group as a whole as a result of the arrangements described in this announcement. 7.4 Common economic interests Agreements between Carnival and P&O Princess will align the economic interests of the two companies to ensure that they will be operated as a single economic enterprise under the DLC structure. Carnival shareholders and P&O Princess shareholders will have equalised rights to income and capital distributions from the Combined Group. The economic interests represented by an individual share in one company relative to the economic interests of an individual share in the other company will be determined by reference to the equalisation ratio. The equalisation ratio will initially be 0.3004 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess share. However, on implementation of the DLC transaction, it is intended that there will be a reorganisation of P&O Princess shares such that the equalisation ratio will become one Carnival share for each P&O Princess share and for each P&O Princess ADS. This reorganisation is intended to ease the comparison between P&O Princess and Carnival shares following completion and does not affect the economic terms of the DLC transaction. Accordingly, one Carnival share will have rights to income and capital equivalent to that of one P&O Princess share. If one company has insufficient profits or is otherwise unable to pay a dividend, Carnival and P&O Princess will, as far as practicable, enter into such balancing transactions as are necessary to enable both companies to pay dividends in accordance with the equalisation ratio. This may take the form of a payment from one company to the other or a dividend payment on an equalisation share.
Dividends will be equalised according to the equalisation ratio (and any balancing transactions between the companies will be determined and made) before deduction of any amounts in respect of the tax required to be deducted or withheld and excluding the amounts of any tax credits or other tax benefits. 7.5 Unified board and management Carnival and P&O Princess will be managed and operated as if they were a single economic enterprise. Although each of Carnival and P&O Princess will continue to exist as a separate company with its own board of directors and senior management, the boards and senior executive management of each company will be identical. In addition to their normal fiduciary duties to the company and obligation to have regard to the interests of its shareholders, the directors of each company will be entitled to have regard to the interests of the other company and its shareholders. Micky Arison, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival, will be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of both Carnival and P&O Princess and Howard S. Frank, the Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Carnival, will be Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of both Carnival and P&O Princess. Peter Ratcliffe, P&O Princess' Chief Executive Officer, will be an executive director of both Carnival and P&O Princess. In addition, Gerald R. Cahill will be the Chief Financial Officer of both Carnival and P&O Princess. The headquarters of the Combined Group will be in Miami with a corporate office in London. Following completion of the DLC transaction, the directors of Carnival and P&O Princess and their respective functions will be: Notes: (1) Existing Carnival director (2) Existing P&O Princess director (3) New director On completion of the DLC transaction, Stuart Subotnick will be designated as the Senior Non-Executive Director. This is a newly created position which the non-executive directors as a body will select, on an annual basis, from one of their number. The remaining current directors of Carnival - Shari Arison, Maks Birnbach, James Dubin, Sherwood Weiser and Meshulam Zonis - will stand down from the board of Carnival upon completion of the DLC transaction. As previously announced, Lord Sterling will retire as Chairman of P&O Princess and stand down from the P&O Princess board on completion of the DLC transaction. The remaining current directors of P&O Princess - Peter Foy, Horst Rahe and Nick Luff - will also stand down from the board upon completion of the DLC transaction.
Resolutions relating to the appointment, removal and re-election of directors after completion will be considered as a Joint Electorate Action and voted upon by the shareholders of each company effectively voting together as a single decision making body. All of the directors of Carnival and P&O Princess will stand for re-election at the annual shareholder meetings of the Combined Group to be held in 2003. Carnival and P&O Princess comply with, and the Combined Group will comply with, the applicable corporate governance requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the NYSE. These are the corporate governance rules applicable to US public companies. P&O Princess will also continue to comply with the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange. 7.6 Name change As part of the DLC transaction, P&O Princess intends to change its name to Carnival (UK) plc at the P&O Princess EGM. The name change is intended to communicate that, as a result of the DLC transaction, the two companies will combine their management and operations as if they were a single economic enterprise. The existing well established brands operated by P&O Princess will not be affected by the change to the parent company name. 7.7 Voting arrangements Under the terms of the DLC documents, the Carnival articles of incorporation and by-laws and the P&O Princess memorandum and articles of association will be amended to provide for special voting arrangements to be implemented so that in most cases the shareholders of both companies effectively vote together as a single decision-making body on matters requiring the approval of shareholders of either company. The voting interests represented by an individual share in one company relative to the voting interests of an individual share in the other company will be determined by reference to the equalisation ratio. Accordingly, following the reorganisation of P&O Princess shares on completion of the DLC transaction, one Carnival share will have voting rights equivalent to those of one P&O Princess share. Certain provisions designed to preserve the structure of the DLC will be subject to the separate approvals of both P&O Princess shareholders and Carnival shareholders, further details of which are set out in Appendix II. These voting arrangements are proposed to be implemented by entrenching them in the constitutional documents of the two companies and through the Equalisation and Governance Agreement and rights attaching to a specially created special voting share to be issued by each company. Under the articles of P&O Princess, P&O Princess shares held by Carnival will have no voting rights at any general meeting of P&O Princess unless the total holding of P&O Princess shares by Carnival equals or exceeds 90 per cent. of the P&O Princess shares then in issue. Carnival will however receive dividends and other distributions paid on its P&O Princess shares. 7.8 Cross guarantees Upon completion of the DLC transaction, P&O Princess and Carnival will each execute Deeds of Guarantee for the purpose of guaranteeing contractual monetary amounts owed by the other company which are incurred on or after the implementation of the DLC transaction. Future creditors of Carnival and P&O Princess entitled to the benefit of the Deeds of Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were also owed by the other company. 7.9 Restrictions on takeovers The Panel has confirmed that, on the basis of information currently available to it, upon completion of the DLC transaction, neither P&O Princess nor Carnival will be a company to which the Takeover Code applies. The Takeover Code provides a number of protections for shareholders, particularly in relation to mandatory offers where a person or group of persons acting in concert acquires in excess of 30 per cent. of the voting rights of a company.
Provisions will be included in the constitutional documents of Carnival and P&O Princess which would apply to any person, or group of persons acting in concert, that acquires shares in the Combined Group which would trigger a mandatory offer obligation as if the Takeover Code applied to the Combined Group on a combined basis. To the extent that the resulting shareholding exceeds one of the current limits in Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, such shares would be disenfranchised unless an offer for all shares in the Combined Group at a price equivalent to that applicable to the acquisition has been made. A Buy-Back by Carnival or P&O Princess of its own shares would not trigger these provisions. There are certain exceptions to these provisions in the case of Micky Arison, other members of the Arison family and trusts for their benefit which together will hold approximately 35 per cent. of the equity of the Combined Group. Under the DLC documents, the Arison family and trusts for their benefit may acquire shares in the Combined Group without triggering these provisions as long as their aggregate holdings do not increase by more than one per cent. of the voting power of the Combined Group in any period of 12 consecutive months, subject to their combined holdings not exceeding 40 per cent. of the voting power of the Combined Group. These parties may acquire additional shares or voting power without being subject to these restrictions if they comply with the offer requirement described above. 7.10 Buy-Backs of Combined Group shares Subject to applicable law, each of Carnival and P&O Princess may purchase shares in the other and acquire its own shares. Under the terms of the DLC documents, unless approved as a Class Rights Action, neither Carnival nor P&O Princess may Buy-Back P&O Princess shares in the two year period following the date on which the DLC structure is implemented. After expiration of the initial two year period, for each of the subsequent three years neither Carnival nor P&O Princess may Buy-Back P&O Princess shares in excess of five per cent. per year of the issued P&O Princess shares (calculated as at the first day in such annual period). Thereafter, there shall be no restriction in the DLC documents on the number of P&O Princess shares which may be the subject of a Buy-Back. There are no restrictions in the DLC documents on the number of Carnival shares which may be purchased by Carnival. 7.11 Termination amount The Implementation Agreement includes a provision for a termination amount equal to $49.4 million (being one per cent. of the market capitalisation of P&O Princess at close of business on 7 January 2003) to be paid by Carnival or P&O Princess in certain circumstances. Further details are set out in Appendix II. 8. Shareholder approval process and timetable The documentation relating to the DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer will be filed with the SEC and the UKLA, as applicable, as soon as practicable. A copy of the SEC filings will be available on the SEC website shortly after filing. Carnival and P&O Princess currently expect that the documentation will be posted to shareholders in late February/early March following review by the SEC and UKLA. The implementation of the DLC transaction is subject to, among other things, shareholder approval by both P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders at their respective shareholder meetings. Carnival and P&O Princess currently expect these meetings to occur in late March/early April and full details will be contained in the documentation to be sent to P&O Princess and Carnival shareholders. The DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer are expected to complete early in the second quarter of 2003. Micky Arison, other members of the Arison family and trusts for their benefit have entered into undertakings under which they will be required to cause shares beneficially owned by them representing approximately 47 per cent. of the voting rights in Carnival to vote in favour of the resolutions required to implement the DLC structure at the Carnival Special Meeting. Such undertakings are irrevocable except in circumstances where the DLC proposal is withdrawn or lapses.
9. Approvals required by regulatory authorities Carnival has previously received clearance from the EC and the FTC for the combination of its business with that of P&O Princess, pursuant to the share exchange offer. Carnival and P&O Princess have been advised that the FTC clearance is also applicable to a combination accomplished pursuant to the DLC transaction and, therefore, that Carnival is not required to undergo any further regulatory process in the US in relation to the DLC transaction. Carnival is submitting to the EC a renotification for clearance of the combination pursuant to the DLC transaction. Carnival and P&O Princess have been advised that there is no reason why the EC's appraisal of the DLC transaction would in any way differ from its appraisal of the share exchange offer. Accordingly, Carnival and P&O Princess expect the DLC transaction to be cleared by the EC during the first quarter of 2003. 10. Employees The combination of Carnival and P&O Princess will offer employees exciting career prospects. Employees of the Combined Group will benefit from a larger operating platform and a business of greater international size and scope. Carnival confirms that the existing employment rights, including pension rights, of P&O Princess employees will be fully safeguarded. Carnival does not expect that there will be significant redundancies arising from the implementation of the DLC transaction. 11. P&O Princess Employee Share Incentive Plans On completion of the DLC transaction, all awards and options granted under the P&O Princess Employee Share Incentive Plans will vest in full and become capable of release or exercise immediately following completion of the DLC transaction. 12. Accounting treatment and reporting The companies expect to account for the DLC transaction as a purchase by Carnival under US GAAP and an acquisition by Carnival under UK GAAP. Following completion of the DLC transaction, the Combined Group intends to publish combined financial statements denominated in US dollars and prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Carnival and P&O Princess will also prepare any other financial information needed to meet their respective legal and regulatory requirements. P&O Princess will change its financial year end to 30 November so that it will be the same as Carnival's current financial year end. 13. Interests in P&O Princess shares Neither Carnival, nor any of the directors of Carnival, nor, so far as Carnival is aware, any other party acting in concert with Carnival, owns or controls any P&O Princess shares or holds any option to purchase any P&O Princess shares or has entered into any derivatives referenced to P&O Princess shares, except that Mr A. Kirk Lanterman, a director and executive officer of Carnival, beneficially owns 16 P&O Princess shares. 14. General The establishment of the DLC transaction is subject to the applicable provisions of the Takeover Code. In particular, in accordance with Rule 13 of the Takeover Code, neither Carnival nor P&O Princess may rely on certain conditions to the Implementation Agreement as a reason not to proceed with completion of the DLC transaction, without prior consent from the Panel. Termination of the Implementation Agreement by Carnival on the grounds that a competing proposal has been announced will not be subject to the prior consent of the Panel. If the Implementation Agreement is terminated, Carnival will make the share exchange offer of 7 February 2002, unless the termination has been as a result of (i) P&O Princess shareholders voting against the resolution required to implement the DLC transaction at the P&O Princess EGM; or (ii) a condition of the Implementation Agreement being invoked which Carnival notifies the Panel it would invoke in relation to the conditions of its share exchange offer, such invocation requiring the consent of the Panel in accordance with Note 2 to Rule 13 of the Takeover Code. In particular, Carnival will proceed with its share exchange
offer where the Implementation Agreement has been terminated by Carnival as a result of the P&O Princess board withdrawing or adversely modifying its recommendation of the DLC transaction or because a competing proposal is announced. Certain additional details relating to the structure of the DLC are set out in Appendix II. The definitions used in this announcement are contained in Appendix III. The sources and bases of information used in this announcement are contained in Appendix IV. This announcement does not constitute an offer or an invitation to acquire shares or securities. Enquiries: Carnival Telephone: +1 305 599 2600 Micky Arison Howard Frank Merrill Lynch Telephone: +44 20 7628 1000 Philip Yates Mark Brooker Stuart Faulkner UBS Warburg Telephone: +44 20 7567 8000 Tom Cooper Alistair Defriez Philip Ellick Financial Dynamics Telephone: +44 20 7831 3113 Nic Bennett The directors of Carnival accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Carnival (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure such is the case), the information contained herein for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information except that the only responsibility accepted by them for the information in this announcement relating to P&O Princess which has been compiled from published sources is to ensure that the information has been correctly and fairly reproduced and presented. Merrill Lynch International and UBS Warburg Ltd., a subsidiary of UBS AG, are acting as joint financial advisors and joint corporate brokers exclusively to Carnival and no-one else in connection with the Carnival DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer and will not be responsible to anyone other than Carnival for providing the protections afforded to clients respectively of Merrill Lynch International and UBS Warburg Ltd. as the case may be or for providing advice in relation to the Carnival DLC transaction and the Partial Share Offer. SHAREHOLDER DISCLOSURE OBLIGATIONS Any person who, alone or acting together with any other person(s) pursuant to an agreement or understanding (whether formal or informal) to acquire or control securities of P&O Princess or Carnival, owns or controls, or become the owner or controller, directly or indirectly of one per cent. or more of any class of securities of P&O Princess or Carnival is generally required under the provisions of Rule 8 of the Takeover Code to disclose to a Regulatory Information Service ("RIS") and the Panel of every dealing in such securities during the period from 16 December 2001, the date of the announcement of the original Offer, until the closing of the DLC transaction. Dealings by Carnival or P&O Princess or by their respective "associates" (within the definitions set out in the Takeover Code) in any class of securities of Carnival or P&O Princess must also be disclosed. Please consult your financial advisor immediately if you believe this rule may be applicable to you. Disclosure should be made on an appropriate form before 12 noon (London time) on the business day following the date of the dealing transaction. These disclosures should be registered with a RIS (e.g. the Company Announcements Office of the London Stock Exchange (fax number: +44 20 7588 6057)) and to the Panel (fax number: +44 20 7256 9386). CAUTIONARY NOTE CONCERNING FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Certain statements in this announcement constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Carnival Corporation has tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as "anticipate", "assume", "believe", "expect", "forecast", "future", "intend", "plan" and words and terms of similar substance in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. These forward-looking statements, including those which may impact the forecasting of Carnival's net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy or business prospects, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause Carnival's actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions which may impact levels of disposable income of consumers and the net revenue yields for Carnival's cruise products; consumer demand for cruises and other vacation
options; other vacation industry competition; effects on consumer demand of armed conflicts, political instability, terrorism, adverse media publicity and the availability of air service; shifts in consumer booking patterns; increases in vacation industry capacity, including cruise capacity; continued availability of attractive port destinations; changes in tax laws and regulations; changes and disruptions in equity, financial and insurance markets; Carnival's financial and contractual counterparties' ability to perform; Carnival's ability to implement its brand strategy, Carnival's ability to implement its shipbuilding program and to continue to expand its business worldwide; Carnival's ability to attract and retain shipboard crew; changes in foreign currency and interest rates and increases in security, food, fuel, and insurance costs; delivery of new ships on schedule and at the contracted prices; weather patterns and natural disasters; unscheduled ship repairs and drydocking; incidents involving cruise ships; impact of pending or threatened litigation; Carnival's ability to successfully implement cost improvement plans; the continuing financial viability and/or consolidation of Carnival's travel agent distribution system; Carnival's ability to successfully integrate business acquisitions and changes in laws and regulations. These risks may not be exhaustive. Carnival operates in a continually changing business environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. Carnival cannot predict such risks nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such risks on its business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks may cause actual results to differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Carnival undertakes no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. CARNIVAL PLANS TO FILE WITH THE US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION IN CONNECTION WITH ITS DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL (WHICH INCLUDES A PARTIAL SHARE OFFER TO P&O PRINCESS SHAREHOLDERS) A REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4/PROXY STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE 14A, AS WELL AS A REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4/STATEMENT ON SCHEDULE TO. BOTH REGISTRATION STATEMENTS WILL CONTAIN A PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL. CARNIVAL PLANS TO MAIL TO SHAREHOLDERS OF P&O PRINCESS THE PROSPECTUS CONTAINED IN THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT/SCHEDULE TO AFTER IT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE BY THE SEC. CARNIVAL PLANS TO MAIL THE PROXY STATEMENT AND THE PROSPECTUS CONTAINED IN THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT TO ITS SHAREHOLDERS AT OR ABOUT THE SAME TIME. THESE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT AND THE SCHEDULE TO WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT CARNIVAL, P&O PRINCESS, THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL AND RELATED MATTERS. STOCKHOLDERS SHOULD READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT, THE SCHEDULE TO AND THE OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL CAREFULLY BEFORE THEY MAKE ANY DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPOSAL. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT, THE SCHEDULE TO AND ALL OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL AND PRIOR PRECONDITIONAL OFFER WILL BE AVAILABLE WHEN FILED FREE OF CHARGE AT THE SEC'S WEB SITE, AT WWW.SEC.GOV. IN ADDITION, THESE DOCUMENTS WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS FREE OF CHARGE BY WRITING TO TIM GALLAGHER AT CARNIVAL CORPORATION, CARNIVAL PLACE, 3655 N.W. 87 AVENUE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, 33178-2428. IN ADDITION TO THE REGISTRATION STATEMENTS, THE PROSPECTUSES, THE PROXY STATEMENT, THE SCHEDULE TO AND THE OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE DUAL LISTED COMPANY PROPOSAL, CARNIVAL IS OBLIGATED TO FILE ANNUAL, QUARTERLY AND CURRENT REPORTS, PROXY STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION WITH THE SEC. PERSONS MAY READ AND COPY ANY REPORTS, STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION FILED WITH THE SEC AT THE SEC'S PUBLIC REFERENCE ROOM AT 450 FIFTH STREET, N.W., WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549. PLEASE CALL THE SEC at 1-800-732-0330 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE PUBLIC REFERENCE ROOM. FILINGS WITH THE SEC ALSO ARE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC FROM COMMERCIAL DOCUMENT-RETRIEVAL SERVICES AND THROUGH THE WEB SITE MAINTAINED BY THE SEC AT WWW.SEC.GOV. THE IDENTITIES OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION OF CARNIVAL SHAREHOLDERS FOR PURPOSES OF RULE 14a-12(a)(1) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND THEIR INTERESTS IN THE OFFER AND TRANSACTIONS RELATED TO IT ARE SET FORTH IN APPENDIX V TO THIS ANNOUNCEMENT.
APPENDIX I PART A. CONDITIONS OF THE DLC TRANSACTION Implementation of the DLC transaction will be subject to the conditions set out in the Implementation Agreement being satisfied or waived by 30 September 2003 which include those summarised below: 1. Shareholder approvals (a) The approval, at an extraordinary general meeting of P&O Princess, of the resolutions required to implement the DLC transaction by not less than three-quarters of the votes attaching to P&O Princess shares that are cast at that meeting; and (b) the approval, at a meeting of Carnival shareholders, of the resolutions required to implement the DLC transaction by not less than a majority of the votes attaching to the outstanding Carnival shares. 2. Approval of the P&O Princess circular by the UKLA The UKLA approving the circular to P&O Princess shareholders convening the P&O Princess EGM. 3. Effectiveness of all registration statements All registration statements required by the SEC in connection with the DLC transaction being declared effective by the SEC and remaining effective and not being the subject of a stop order or other proceeding by the SEC to suspend their effectiveness. 4. Regulatory approvals Approval of the DLC transaction by the EC pursuant to EC Merger Regulation 4064/89. 5. No change in law or order restricting the DLC transaction The absence of action, or threatened action, by any governmental enterprise of competent jurisdiction that restrains, enjoins or otherwise prohibits the completion or performance of, or materially adversely affects, the DLC transaction and the other transactions contemplated by the Implementation Agreement. 6. Effectiveness of each company's new constitutional documents (a) The new P&O Princess memorandum and articles of association to be adopted pursuant to the resolutions referred to in paragraph 1(a) above having become effective; and (b) the new Carnival articles and by-laws to be adopted pursuant to the resolutions referred to in paragraph 1(b) above having become effective. 7. Partial Share Offer The Partial Share Offer becoming unconditional (save for Condition 1 of the Partial Share Offer regarding the completion of the Implementation Agreement).
P&O Princess' obligation to complete the DLC transaction is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions precedent: 1. Representations and warranties and covenants of Carnival The representations and warranties of Carnival set out in the Implementation Agreement, as qualified therein by applicable materiality thresholds, being true and correct as of the date of the Implementation Agreement and as of the effective time of completion, and Carnival having performed in all material respects its obligations under the Implementation Agreement, and P&O Princess having received an officer's certificate of Carnival to such effect. The representations and warranties cover amongst other things share capital structure, authority to enter into agreements, accuracy of published financial information, litigation and absence of material change. 2. Carnival third party consents Carnival having obtained all third party consents or approvals necessary to complete the DLC transaction, other than those the failure of which to obtain such consent or approval is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on Carnival or the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Implementation Agreement. 3. Carnival special voting share Carnival having issued the Carnival special voting share. 4. DLC documents Each of the agreements required for the implementation of the DLC transaction having been executed and delivered by the parties thereto (other than P&O Princess) in the form agreed by the parties pursuant to the Implementation Agreement. Carnival's obligation to complete the DLC transaction is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions precedent: 1. Representations and warranties and covenants of P&O Princess The representations and warranties of P&O Princess set out in the Implementation Agreement, as qualified therein by applicable materiality thresholds, being true and correct as of the date of the Implementation Agreement and as of the effective time of completion, and P&O Princess having performed in all material respects its obligations under the Implementation Agreement, and Carnival having received an officer's certificate of P&O Princess to such effect. The representations and warranties of P&O Princess cover the same matters as the Carnival representations and warranties referred to above. 2. P&O Princess third party consents P&O Princess having obtained all third party consents or approvals necessary to consummate the DLC transaction, other than those the failure of which to obtain such consent or approval is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on P&O Princess or the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Implementation Agreement. 3. P&O Princess special voting share P&O Princess having issued the P&O Princess special voting share.
4. DLC documents Each of the agreements required for the implementation of the DLC transaction having been executed and delivered by the parties thereto (other than Carnival) in the form agreed by the parties pursuant to the Implementation Agreement.
PART B. CONDITIONS OF THE PARTIAL SHARE OFFER The Partial Share Offer will be conditional on: 1. the DLC transaction having been completed under the terms of the Implementation Agreement; 2. all registration statements required by the SEC in connection with the DLC proposal being declared effective by the SEC and remaining effective and not being the subject of a stop order or other proceeding by the SEC to suspend their effectiveness; 3. the NYSE agreeing to list the Carnival shares to be issued in connection with the Partial Share Offer, subject only to official notice of issuance; 4. there not being outstanding any governmental action or court order which would or might make the Partial Share Offer or the acquisition of any P&O Princess shares void, illegal or unenforceable or materially and adversely affect the assets, business, profits or prospects of any member of the wider Carnival group or of any member of the wider P&O Princess group; and 5. all authorisations, orders, recognitions, grants, consents, licences, confirmations, clearances, permissions and approvals ("Authorisations") necessary in any jurisdiction for, or in respect of, the Partial Share Offer having been obtained, in terms and in a form reasonably satisfactory to Carnival, from all necessary governmental entities and from any relevant persons or bodies with whom any member of the wider Carnival group or the wider P&O Princess group has entered into contractual arrangements and all such Authorisations remaining in full force and effect at the time at which the Partial Share Offer becomes unconditional in all respects. Carnival reserves the right to waive, in whole or in part, either or both of Conditions 4 and 5. Invocation of Conditions 4 and 5 of the Partial Share Offer will be subject to the approval of the Panel under Note 2 to Rule 13 of the Takeover Code.
APPENDIX II CERTAIN TERMS OF THE DLC TRANSACTION 1. Joint Electorate and Class Rights Actions Under the terms of the DLC documents, special voting arrangements will be implemented so that the shareholders of Carnival and P&O Princess will vote together as a single decision making body on Joint Electorate Actions which will be all matters submitted to a shareholder vote other than those designated as Class Rights Actions or resolutions on procedural or technical matters. The relative voting rights of the P&O Princess shares and Carnival shares will be determined by the equalisation ratio. Based on an equalisation ratio of 1:1, each Carnival share will have the same voting rights as one P&O Princess share on Joint Electorate Actions. Joint Electorate Actions will include (i) the appointment, removal or re-election of any director of Carnival or P&O Princess or both of them; (ii) if required by law, the receipt or adoption of the annual accounts of both companies; (iii) the appointment or removal or the auditors of either company; (iv) a change of name by P&O Princess or Carnival, or both of them; or (v) the implementation of a Mandatory Exchange described in section 2 below; if put to shareholders. In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of shareholders may have divergent interests, to be known as Class Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Action would require the prior approval of shareholders in both companies each voting separately as a class. The matters which will require approval as a Class Rights Action will be (i) the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of either company for which shareholder approval is required, (other than as part of the liquidation of both companies at or around the same time provided that such liquidation is not for the purpose of reconstituting the business in one or more successor entities); (ii) the adjustment to the equalisation ratio, other than in accordance with the Equalisation and Governance Agreement; (iii) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either company other than a bona fide commercial transaction for valid business purposes and at fair market value and not as part of a proposal, the primary purpose of which is to collapse or unify the DLC structure; (iv) any amendment, removal or alteration of any of the provisions of P&O Princess' articles of association and Carnival's by-laws and articles which entrench certain core provisions of the DLC structure; (v) any amendment or termination of the principal agreements pursuant to which the DLC structure is implemented; (vi) any change to the tax related provisions of the Carnival articles that would be likely to trigger a mandatory exchange as described in 2 below; and (vii) anything which the boards of both companies agree should be approved as a Class Rights Action. These voting arrangements will be implemented by embedding them in the DLC documents and through the issue of a special voting share by each company. 2. Mandatory Exchange In certain limited circumstances (described in (a) or (b) below) following implementation of the DLC structure, P&O Princess shares, other than those held by Carnival, may be subject to a mandatory exchange for Carnival shares at the then prevailing equalisation ratio. (a) If there is a change in applicable tax laws, rules or regulations or their application or interpretation, and, based on a legal opinion and after using commercially reasonable efforts to explore available alternatives, and the P&O Princess board shall have reasonably determined that: . the change is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the DLC structure; . it is reasonably likely that the material adverse effect would be eliminated or substantially reduced by a mandatory exchange; and
. the material adverse effect would not be substantially eliminated by any commercially reasonable alternative to a mandatory exchange; then, with the approval of 66 2/3 per cent. of the shareholders of P&O Princess and Carnival (voting on a Joint Electorate Action), the mandatory exchange will occur. (b) In addition, if: . there is a change in the applicable non-tax laws, rules or regulations or their application or interpretation, as a result of which the P&O Princess board has reasonably determined and having received a legal opinion, that it is reasonably likely that all or a substantial portion of the DLC documents are unlawful, illegal or unenforceable; or . a court or other governmental entity has issued a ruling, judgement, decree or order, which has been appealed to the extent the P&O Princess board deems reasonably appropriate, holding that all or a substantial portion of the DLC documents are unlawful, illegal or unenforceable; and the P&O Princess board, based on a legal opinion and after using commercially reasonable efforts to explore the available alternatives to the mandatory exchange, has reasonably determined that: . the legal basis for the illegality or unenforceability would be eliminated by a mandatory exchange; . the illegality or unenforceability could not be eliminated by amendments to the DLC documents that would not materially and adversely affect the rights of the shareholders of P&O Princess and Carnival, taken together or in relation to each other; and . the change in law or the ruling, judgment, decree or order is reasonably likely to be enforced in a way that will have a material adverse effect on the DLC structure; then, if the P&O Princess board decide, the mandatory exchange will occur. 3. Termination amount If the Implementation Agreement is terminated: . by either Carnival or P&O Princess because of the failure of P&O Princess shareholders to approve the DLC transaction and a third-party acquisition proposal for P&O Princess exists at the time of the P&O Princess shareholders meeting; or . by Carnival because: . the P&O Princess board has withdrawn or adversely modified its recommendation of the DLC transaction or has resolved to take any such action or failed to reconfirm that recommendation upon request by Carnival; or . P&O Princess or the P&O Princess board has recommended a superior third-party acquisition proposal for P&O Princess; or . P&O Princess has breached its obligations under the Implementation Agreement not to solicit another acquisition proposal for P&O Princess; then P&O Princess will be required to pay a termination amount to Carnival equal to $49.4 million (being one per cent. of P&O princess' market capitalisation at close of business on 7 January 2003)
if a third-party acquisition proposal with respect to P&O Princess is completed within 18 months of the date of the Implementation Agreement. If the Implementation Agreement is terminated: . by either Carnival or P&O Princess because of the failure of Carnival shareholders to approve the DLC transaction and a third-party acquisition proposal for Carnival exists at the time of the Carnival shareholders meeting; or . by P&O Princess because: . the Carnival board has withdrawn or adversely modified its recommendation of the DLC transaction or has resolved to take any such action or failed to reconfirm that recommendation upon request by P&O Princess; . Carnival or the Carnival board has recommended a superior third-party acquisition proposal for Carnival; or . Carnival has breached its obligations under the Implementation Agreement not to solicit another acquisition proposal for Carnival; then Carnival will be required to pay a termination amount to P&O Princess equal to $49.4 million (being one per cent. of P&O Princess' market capitalisation at close of business on 7 January 2003) if a third-party acquisition proposal with respect to Carnival is completed within 18 months of the date of the Implementation Agreement.
APPENDIX III DEFINITIONS "Buy-Back" a purchase by Carnival of P&O Princess shares, or a purchase by P&O Princess of Carnival shares or a purchase by P&O Princess of its own shares or a reduction by P&O Princess of its issued share capital "Carnival" Carnival Corporation "Carnival group" Carnival, its subsidiaries and its subsidiary undertakings "Carnival shares" shares of common stock of Carnival of $0.01 each "Carnival Special Meeting" the special meeting of Carnival shareholders to be convened for the purpose of approving the DLC transaction "Class Rights Actions" actions specified as such due to the divergent interests of shareholders and which accordingly require the prior approval of shareholders in both companies, each voting as a separate class "competing proposal" the announcement by a third party of a firm intention (whether or not subject to a pre-condition) to make an offer, in accordance with the Takeover Code, for P&O Princess (including a proposal for a DLC with P&O Princess) which offer, in Carnival's reasonable opinion, acting in good faith and after consultation with its financial advisers, the nature of such advice having been communicated to P&O Princess, is likely to be more attractive to P&O Princess shareholders than the DLC transaction "Combined Group" the P&O Princess group and the Carnival group after the DLC structure has been implemented "Conditions" the conditions set out in Part A or Part B of Appendix I of this announcement, as the case may be "DLC" dual listed company "DLC documents" The documents required to implement the DLC transaction which will include the Implementation Agreement, the Equalisation and Governance Agreement, Deeds of Guarantee, the special voting deed, the Carnival voting agreement, the amended memorandum and amended articles of association of P&O Princess, the third amended and restated articles of incorporation of Carnival and the amended and restated by-laws of Carnival "DLC proposal" Carnival's proposal to form a dual listed company structure with P&O Princess and to make the Partial Share Offer "DLC structure" the dual listed company structure created by the DLC documents "DLC transaction" the combination of Carnival and P&O Princess under a dual listed company structure "EC" the European Commission "Equalisation and Governance Agreement" the agreement to be entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival pursuant to the Implementation Agreement specifying the equalisation ratio and various other matters relating to the DLC transaction "equalisation ratio" the ratio of one P&O Princess share to that number of Carnival shares that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Princess share "FTC" the US Federal Trade Commission "Implementation Agreement" the offer and implementation agreement entered into between Carnival and P&O Princess on 8 January 2003 setting out the terms and conditions for the implementation of the DLC structure and the Partial Share Offer "Joint Electorate Actions" actions in respect of which holders of P&O Princess shares and Carnival shares will effectively vote as a unified constituency "London Stock Exchange" London Stock Exchange plc "Merrill Lynch" Merrill Lynch International "NYSE" the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. "Panel" the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers "Partial Share Offer" the proposed partial offer to be made to acquire up to 20 per cent. of P&O Princess' share capital on the basis of 0.3004 Carnival shares for each P&O Princess share "P&O Princess" P&O Princess Cruises plc
"P&O Princess ADSs" American depositary shares, each representing, before the completion of the DLC transaction, four underlying P&O Princess shares "P&O Princess EGM" the extraordinary general meeting of P&O Princess to be convened for the purpose of approving the DLC transaction "P&O Princess group" P&O Princess, its subsidiaries and its subsidiary undertakings "P&O Princess shares" prior to the implementation of the DLC transaction, the existing unconditionally allotted or issued and fully paid ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in the capital of P&O Princess (including those represented by P&O Princess ADSs but not, for avoidance of doubt, such ADSs) and any further such shares which are unconditionally allotted or issued and fully paid before completion of the DLC transaction (or such earlier date(s) as Carnival may, subject to the Takeover Code, determine), including any such shares so unconditionally allotted or issued pursuant to the exercise of options granted under the P&O Princess employee share incentive plans and, after the implementation of the DLC structure, the unconditionally allotted or issued and fully paid ordinary share of US$1.66 each in the capital of P&O Princess "Royal Caribbean" Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. "SEC" the United States Securities and Exchange Commission "share exchange offer" the pre-conditional offer for P&O Princess announced by Carnival on 7 February 2002 "special voting share" the special voting shares to be issued by each of P&O Princess and Carnival to enable P&O Princess shareholders and Carnival shareholders to vote on a combined basis at meetings of both companies "Takeover Code" the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers "UBS Warburg" UBS AG, acting through its business group UBS Warburg or, where appropriate, its subsidiary, UBS Warburg Ltd. "UKLA" the United Kingdom Listing Authority "UK" or "United Kingdom" the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland "US" or "United States" the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and the District of Columbia and all other areas subject to its jurisdiction "wider Carnival group" Carnival and any of its subsidiary undertakings or any associated undertaking or company of which 20 per cent. or more of the voting capital is held by the Carnival group or any partnership, joint venture, firm or company in which any member of the Carnival group may be interested "wider P&O Princess group" P&O Princess and any of its subsidiary undertakings or any associated undertaking or company of which 20 per cent. or more of the voting capital is held by the P&O Princess group or any partnership, joint venture, firm or company in which any member of the P&O Princess group may be interested "(Pounds)" or "pounds sterling" or "pence" or "p" the lawful currency of the United Kingdom "$" or "US dollars" or "cents" the lawful currency of the United States of America
APPENDIX IV SOURCES AND BASES OF INFORMATION Unless otherwise stated: (i) information relating to Carnival has been extracted from the relevant published audited financial statements and SEC filings of Carnival; and (ii) information relating to P&O Princess has been extracted from the relevant published annual reports and accounts, interim reports and SEC filings of P&O Princess. Share prices for Carnival and P&O Princess are taken from Bloomberg. The (Pounds)1:$1.611 exchange rate is the World Market Rate as published in the Financial Times on 7 January 2003. The DLC "look through" value is based upon the Carnival closing price of $25.77 on 7 January 2003 and the 693,008,745 50 cent ordinary shares in issue as per the P&O Princess blocklisting interim review dated 21 May 2002. The holdings of the equity in the Combined Group are based on 586,776,338 one cent Carnival ordinary shares in issue as per the 10Q of Carnival dated 31 August 2002 and the 693,008,745 50 cent ordinary shares in issue as per the P&O Princess blocklisting interim review dated 21 May 2002. The termination amount is based upon the P&O Princess closing price on 7 January 2003 of 442.5 pence and the 693,008,745 50 cent ordinary shares in issue as per the P&O Princess blocklisting interim review dated 21 May 2002.
APPENDIX V PARTICIPANTS INVOLVED IN SOLICITATION The participants in the solicitation of Carnival shareholders include the following directors of: Micky Arison (also Chairman of the board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival), Shari Arison, Maks L. Birnbach, Richard G. Capen, Jr., Robert H. Dickinson (also President and Chief Operating Officer of Carnival Cruise Lines), Arnold W. Donald, James M. Dubin, Howard S. Frank (also Vice Chairman of the board of Directors and Chief Operating Officer of Carnival), A. Kirk Lanterman (also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Holland America Line-Westours, Inc.), Modesto A. Maidique, Stuart Subotnick, Sherwood M. Weiser, Meshulam Zonis and Uzi Zucker. In addition, the following persons may be participating in the solicitation: Gerald R. Cahill (Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Carnival), Kenneth D. Dubbin (Vice President, Corporate Development of Carnival), Lowell Zemnick (Vice President and Treasurer of Carnival), Arnaldo Perez (Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Carnival), Elizabeth Roberts (Director Investor Relations of Carnival) and Tim Gallagher (Vice President of Public Relations of Carnival Cruise Lines). As of the date of this communication: .. Micky Arison beneficially owns approximately 38.9 per cent. of the outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of Carnival; .. James M. Dubin, by virtue of being the sole shareholder of JMD Delaware, Inc. (the trustee of the Continued Trust for Shari Arison Dorsman, the Continued Trust for Micky Arison, the Continued Trust for Michael Arison, the MA 1997 Holdings Trust, the Marylin B. Arison Irrevocable Delaware Trust, and the 1999 Irrevocable Delaware Trust for Michael Arison), JMD Protector, Inc. (the protector of the Ted Arison 1994 Irrevocable Trust for Shari No.1 and the Ted Arison 1992 Irrevocable Trust for Lin No. 2) and Balluta Limited (the trustee of the Shari Arison Irrevocable Guernsey Trust), may be deemed to own beneficially approximately 24.9 per cent. of the outstanding Common Stock, as to which he disclaims beneficial ownership; and .. No other possible participant in the solicitation listed above beneficially owns greater than 1 per cent. of the outstanding Common Stock.

Exhibit 99.2 EXECUTION COPY OFFER AND IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT Between Carnival Corporation and P&O Princess Cruises plc Dated as of January 8, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
-ii-
EXHIBIT A Agreed form of Equalization and Governance Agreement EXHIBIT B Agreed form of SVE Special Voting Deed EXHIBIT C Agreed form of Carnival Amended Articles EXHIBIT D Agreed form of Carnival Amended By-Laws iii
Page ---- EXHIBIT E Agreed form of P&O Princess Amended Memorandum EXHIBIT F Agreed form of P&O Princess Amended Articles EXHIBIT G Agreed form of Carnival Deed of Guarantee EXHIBIT H Agreed form of P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee EXHIBIT I Agreed form of Carnival Deed EXHIBIT J Directors of Carnival and P&O Princess Annex 1 Offer Conditions -iv-
OFFER AND IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT (hereinafter called this "Agreement"), dated as of January 8, 2003, between Carnival Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama, having its principal place of business at 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue, Miami, FL 33178-2428 ("Carnival"), and P&O Princess Cruises plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales (Registered No. 4039524) having its registered office at 77 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1PP ("P&O Princess"). RECITALS WHEREAS, on the terms and subject to the conditions provided herein Carnival and P&O Princess (each, a "Party" and, together, the "Parties") intend to establish a dual listed company structure for the purposes of conducting their businesses together, treating their shareholders as if they owned an interest in a combined enterprise and creating certain rights for the Carnival Shareholders and the P&O Princess Shareholders in respect of their indirect interests in the combined enterprise; WHEREAS, on the terms and subject to the conditions herein, Carnival also wishes to offer to P&O Princess shareholders the opportunity to exchange their P&O Princess Ordinary Shares for shares of Carnival Common Stock, pursuant to the Offer; WHEREAS, the board of directors of each Party has determined that it is in the best interest of their respective companies and shareholders to enter into transactions (collectively, the "Transactions") contemplated by this Agreement, including the Offer; WHEREAS, in furtherance of such determination, the board of directors of each Party has approved this Agreement and the Transactions, including, (i) the execution and delivery by each of Carnival and P&O Princess of an Equalization and Governance Agreement (the "Equalization and Governance Agreement") in the Agreed Form, (ii) (a) the issue by Carnival of one share of special voting stock (the "Carnival Special Share") to a newly organized special purpose entity wholly owned by an entity designated by P&O Princess and reasonably acceptable to Carnival that is not an Affiliate of P&O Princess or Carnival (such special purpose entity, the "Carnival SVC") and (b) the issue by P&O Princess of one special voting share (the "P&O Princess Special Share"), to Carnival, which shall immediately thereafter deposit (the "Deposit") the P&O Princess Special Share with a trust company to be designated by Carnival and reasonably acceptable to P&O Princess (the "P&O Princess Trustee"), in its capacity as trustee of the P&O Princess Special Voting Trust (the "P&O Princess SVT"), a trust to be formed under the P&O Princess Special Voting Trust Agreement, and in each case (a) and (b), subject to the terms of a voting agreement (the "SVE Special Voting Deed") in the Agreed Form, -1-
(iii) (a) the issue to Carnival by the P&O Princess Trustee, in respect of the Deposit, of one share of beneficial interest in the P&O Princess SVT (each, a "SVT Share") for each share of Carnival Common Stock outstanding on the Closing Date, (b) the execution and delivery of the Pairing Agreement (the "Pairing Agreement") between Carnival and the P&O Princess Trustee in the Agreed Form and (c) the distribution by Carnival as a dividend to the holders of the Carnival Common Stock of one SVT Share for each share of Carnival Common Stock; (iv) the appointment or election of the same individuals as members of the board of directors of Carnival and P&O Princess, and (v) the implementation of the corporate governance arrangements contained in the Agreed Form of the Carnival Amendments and the P&O Princess Amendments; WHEREAS, it is intended that this Agreement and the DLC Transactions will not for any legal, tax or other purpose (i) alter the status of P&O Princess and Carnival as separate independent entities, (ii) result in any of Carnival, P&O Princess, their respective Subsidiaries, or their respective shareholders being treated as creating an entity or otherwise entering into any partnership, joint venture, association or agency relationship, or (iii) give either Party (or its respective Subsidiaries or shareholders) any legal or beneficial ownership interest in the assets or income of the other Party, and shall not be construed as having such effect; WHEREAS, as an inducement to P&O Princess' willingness to enter into this Agreement and the Transactions, the Carnival Major Stockholders each entered into a separate deed poll (respectively the "Arison Deed Poll", the "JMD Delaware, Inc. Deed Poll" and the "JMD Protector, Inc. Deed Poll") covering the shares of Carnival Common Stock listed in Exhibit A to each deed poll (collectively the "Stockholders Deed Polls"); and WHEREAS, Carnival and P&O Princess desire to make certain representations, warranties, covenants and agreements in connection with this Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and of the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, the Parties agree as follows: ARTICLE I Definitions "Affiliate" of any specified Person shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act. -2-
"Agreed Form" means, with respect to any DLC Document, the form of such DLC Document agreed by the Parties on or prior to the Closing; provided, however, that the Agreed Form of the Equalization and Governance Agreement, the Deeds of Guarantee, the SVE Special Voting Deed, the Carnival Amended Articles, the Carnival Amended By-Laws, the P&O Princess Amended Memorandum, the P&O Princess Amended Articles and the Carnival Deed shall be the forms attached to this Agreement, together with such changes thereto as the Parties may agree prior to the Closing. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or London are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close in the United States or England (or on which such banking institutions are open solely for trading in euros). "Carnival Announcement" means Carnival's press release with respect to a "Pre-conditional Carnival DLC proposal with Partial Share Offer for P&O Princess" dated 24 October 2002. "Carnival Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Carnival, excluding the Carnival Special Share. "Carnival Circular" means the proxy statement/prospectus to be sent to Carnival shareholders in connection with the DLC Transaction and the Carnival Shareholders Meeting, as amended or supplemented, containing (i) a notice convening the Carnival Shareholders Meeting, (ii) information relating to the approval by Carnival shareholders of the Carnival Amendments, (iii) the prospectus from the Second Joint Registration Statement, (iv) such other information (if any) as may be required by the City Code, the Takeover Panel, the SEC or the NYSE and (v) such other information as P&O Princess and Carnival shall agree to include therein, and any supplements thereto and any other circulars or documents issued to shareholders or employees of Carnival. "Carnival Deed" means the deed between Carnival and P&O Princess in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit I. "Carnival Deed of Guarantee" means the guarantee whereby Carnival agrees to guarantee certain obligations of P&O Princess for the benefit of certain future creditors of P&O Princess, in the Agreed Form. "Carnival Group" means Carnival, its subsidiaries and its subsidiary undertakings. "Carnival Major Stockholders" means Micky Arison, JMD Delaware, Inc. and JMD Protector, Inc. "Carnival SVC Owner" means the legal and beneficial owner of all of the shares in Carnival SVC, as mutually agreed by Carnival and P&O Princess. -3-
"City Code" means the United Kingdom City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. "Companies Act" means the Companies Act 1985 of the United Kingdom, as amended. "Compensation and Benefit Plans" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, any bonus, deferred compensation, pension, retirement, profit-sharing, thrift, savings, employee stock ownership, stock bonus, stock purchase, restricted stock, stock option, employment, termination, severance, compensation, medical, health or other plan, agreement, policy or arrangement that covers employees, directors, former employees or former directors of it and its Subsidiaries. "Deeds of Guarantee" means each of the P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee and the Carnival Deed of Guarantee. "DLC Documents" means the Equalization and Governance Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed, the Carnival Amended Articles, the Carnival Amended By-Laws, the P&O Princess Amended Memorandum, the P&O Princess Amended Articles, the Carnival SVC constituent documents, the P&O Princess SVT constituent documents, the Deeds of Guarantee, the Carnival Deed, the Pairing Agreement and any other document or instrument the parties agree is a DLC Document. "DLC Transactions" means the Transactions other than those relating to the Offer and other transactions incidental to the Offer. "Exchange Act" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; "Governmental Entity" means a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or any governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or any other governmental entity and shall include any relevant competition authorities, the Takeover Panel, the European Commission, the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE. "IRC" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Joint Registration Statement" means the joint registration statement on Form S-4 and Form F-4 under the Securities Act relating to the Offer and the deemed exchange of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares in connection with the DLC Transaction, as amended or supplemented. "Joint Venture Agreement" means the Joint Venture Agreement among P&O Princess, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and JOEX Limited, dated as of November 19, 2001. -4-
"Law" means any law, statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, injunction, decree, arbitration award, agency requirement, franchise, license or permit of any Governmental Entity, including the City Code. "Lien" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, lien, deed of trust, hypothecation, claim, security interest, title defect, encumbrance, burden, tax lien (as used in Section 6321 of the IRC or similarly by any state, local, or foreign tax authority), charge, or other similar restriction, title retention agreement, option, easement, covenant, encroachment or other adverse claim. "London Listing Rules" means the listing rules of the UKLA. "London Stock Exchange" means the London Stock Exchange plc. "Material Adverse Change" means, with respect to any Party, any change, effect, event or occurrence which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to such Party other than any changes, effects, events or occurrences attributable to any one or more of the following: (i) any changes after the date of this Agreement in generally accepted accounting principles or interpretations thereof that applies to such Party, (ii) the announcement and performance of this Agreement and compliance with the covenants and obligations set forth herein, and (iii) the economy or financial markets relevant to such Party in general or in general to the industries in which such Party operates and not having a materially disproportionate effect relative to the other Party on, such Party. "Material Adverse Effect" means, with respect to any Party, a material adverse effect on (i) the financial condition, results of operations, assets or business of such Party and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (ii) the ability of such Party to perform without delay or restrictions its obligations under this Agreement or the transactions contemplated on its part hereby or (iii) the consummation or implementation of the Transactions. "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. "Offer" means a partial offer to exchange up to 20% of the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (whether or not held in the form of P&O Princess ADSs) as of the Effective Time for validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of Carnival Common Stock at the Offer Exchange Ratio as such offer may be amended from time to time as permitted under this Agreement and by applicable Law upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement. "Offer Documents" means the Schedule TO, the prospectus contained in the Joint Registration Statement, the transmittal and acceptance documents, and any other documents or information as may be required by the City Code, the Takeover Panel, the UKLA, the NYSE, the SEC or London Stock Exchange in connection with the Offer. -5-
"Offer Exchange Ratio" means 0.3004 shares of Carnival Common Stock for each P&O Princess Ordinary Share. "Person" means a natural person, a corporation, a limited liability company, a general or limited partnership, a trust, an estate, a joint venture, any Governmental Entity, or any other entity or organization. "P&O Princess ADSs" means the American Depositary Shares of P&O Princess, each of which represents four P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, which are listed on the NYSE. "P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee" means the guarantee whereby P&O Princess agrees to guarantee certain obligations of Carnival for the benefit of certain future creditors of Carnival, in the Agreed Form. "P&O Princess EGM Circular" means the circular to be sent to P&O Princess shareholders in connection with the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting to approve the DLC Transactions containing (i) a notice convening the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting, (ii) such other information (if any) as may be required by the City Code, the Takeover Panel, the UKLA, the SEC, the NYSE or the London Stock Exchange, (iii) all information required by applicable Law relating to the DLC Transactions and (iv) such other information as P&O Princess and Carnival shall agree to include therein, and any supplements thereto and any other circulars or documents issued to shareholders or employees of P&O Princess. "P&O Princess Group" means P&O Princess, its subsidiaries and its subsidiary undertakings. "P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" means the ordinary shares (including the Ordinary Shares underlying P&O Princess' American Depositary Shares) of P&O Princess, excluding the P&O Princess Special Share. "PGCL" means Law 32 of the Corporation Law of 1927 of the Republic of Panama, as amended. "Registration Statements" means the Joint Registration Statement and the Second Joint Registration Statement. "Schedule TO" means a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO promulgated under the Exchange Act with respect to the Offer, as amended or supplemented, which shall contain or incorporate by reference all or part of the Joint Registration Statement. "Second Joint Registration Statement" means the joint registration statement on Form S-4 and Form F-4 under the Securities Act relating to the deemed exchange of shares of Carnival Common Stock in connection with the DLC Transaction -6-
and the registration of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, as amended or supplemented. "Securities Act" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Shareholder Documents" means the P&O Princess EGM Circular, the Joint Registration Statement and the Second Joint Registration Statement, including the prospectuses constituting part of the Joint Registration Statement and the Second Joint Registration Statement. "Significant Subsidiary" of any specified Person shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 1-02(w) of the Regulation S-X promulgated under the Exchange Act. "Subsidiary" means, with respect to a Party, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such Party owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such Party otherwise has the power to direct. "Takeover Panel" means the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers. "US GAAP" means United States generally accepted accounting principles. "UK GAAP" means United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles. "UKLA" means the Financial Services Authority in its capacity as competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. "Wider Carnival Group" means Carnival and any of its subsidiary undertakings or any associated undertaking or company of which 20 per cent. or more of the voting capital is held by the Carnival Group or any partnership, joint venture, firm or company in which any member of the Carnival Group may be interested. "Wider P&O Princess Group" means P&O Princess and any of its subsidiary undertakings or any associated undertaking or company of which 20 per cent. or more of the voting capital is held by the P&O Princess Group or any partnership, joint venture, firm or company in which any member of the P&O Princess Group may be interested. Each of the following terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such term: -7-
SCHEDULE OF DEFINED TERMS Defined Term Section - ------------ ------- Acquisition Proposal ............................................. 4.2.1 Agreement ........................................................ Recitals Arison Deed Poll ................................................. Recitals Audit Date ....................................................... 3.1.5.2 Bankruptcy and Equity Exception .................................. 3.1.3.1 Carnival ......................................................... Recitals Carnival Amended Articles ........................................ 2.2.3 Carnival Amended By-Laws ......................................... 2.2.3 Carnival Amendments .............................................. 2.2.3 Carnival Audit Date .............................................. 3.1.5.1 Carnival Disclosure Letter ....................................... 3.1 Carnival Officers ................................................ 3.1.7.1 Carnival Preferred Stock ......................................... 3.1.2.1 Carnival Reports ................................................. 3.1.5.1 Carnival Required Consents ....................................... 3.1.4.1 Carnival Requisite Vote .......................................... 3.1.3.1 Carnival Shareholders Meeting .................................... 4.4 Carnival Special Share ........................................... Recitals Carnival SVC ..................................................... Recitals Carnival Stock Plans ............................................. 3.1.2.1 Carnival Termination Amount ...................................... 6.5.2 Closing .......................................................... 2.1 Closing Date ..................................................... 2.1 Confidentiality Agreement ........................................ 4.6 Contracts ........................................................ 3.1.4.2 Deposit .......................................................... Recitals Disclosure Letter ................................................ 3.1 Effective Time ................................................... 2.1 Equalization and Governance Agreement ............................ Recitals Equalization Ratio ............................................... 2.3 Governmental Consents ............................................ 5.1.2 HSR Act .......................................................... 3.1.4.1 Indemnitees ...................................................... 4.8.1.2 Integration Committee ............................................ 4.10.2 JMD Delaware, Inc. Deed Poll ..................................... Recitals JMD Protector, Inc. Deed Poll .................................... Recitals Mutual Directors ................................................. 4.8.2 Offer Conditions ................................................. 4.11.1 Order ............................................................ 5.1.3 Pairing Agreement ................................................ Recitals Parties .......................................................... Recitals Party ............................................................ Recitals Permits .......................................................... 3.1.7.2 -8-
SCHEDULE OF DEFINED TERMS Defined Term Section - ------------ ------- P&O Princess ..................................................... Recitals P&O Princess Amended Articles .................................... 2.2.4 P&O Princess Amended Memorandum .................................. 2.2.4 P&O Princess Amendments .......................................... 2.2.4 P&O Princess Audit Date .......................................... 3.1.5.2 P&O Princess Disclosure Letter ................................... 3.1 P&O Princess Officers ............................................ 3.1.7.1 P&O Princess Option Plans ........................................ 3.1.2.2 P&O Princess Reports ............................................. 3.1.5.2 P&O Princess Required Consents ................................... 3.1.4.1 P&O Princess Requisite Vote ...................................... 3.1.3.2 P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting ................................ 4.4 P&O Princess Special Share ....................................... Recitals P&O Princess SVT ................................................. Recitals P&O Princess Termination Amount .................................. 6.5.3 P&O Princess Trustee ............................................. Recitals P&O Princess UK Reports .......................................... 3.1.5.2 P&O Princess US Reports .......................................... 3.1.5.2 Qualifying Acquisition Proposal .................................. 4.2.1 Reports .......................................................... 3.1.5.2 Representatives .................................................. 4.2.1 Schedule 14D-9 ................................................... 4.11.7 SEC .............................................................. 3.1.5.1 Stockholders Deed Polls .......................................... Recitals Superior Proposal ................................................ 4.2.1 SVE Special Voting Deed .......................................... Recitals SVT Share ........................................................ Recitals Tax .............................................................. 3.1.10 Tax Return ....................................................... 3.1.10 Termination Date ................................................. 6.2 Transactions ..................................................... Recitals ARTICLE II Closing; Equalization Ratio 2.1 Closing. The closing and completion (the "Closing") of the DLC Transactions shall take place simultaneously (i) at the offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, 10019 and at the offices of Herbert Smith, Exchange Square, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2HS, not later than the third Business Day after the first day on which all of the conditions set forth in Article V -9-
are satisfied or waived by the Party or Parties entitled thereto in accordance with this Agreement (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of such conditions) or (ii) at such other places and time and/or on such other date as Carnival and P&O Princess may agree in writing (the "Closing Date"). All transactions to be effected at the Closing shall be effected simultaneously, and no transaction shall be complete or effective until such time as all such transactions are complete and effective (the "Effective Time"). 2.2 Transactions to be Effected and Documents to be Exchanged. At or prior to the Closing: 2.2.1 Equalization and Governance Agreement. Each of P&O Princess and Carnival shall execute and deliver to the other the Equalization and Governance Agreement in the Agreed Form; 2.2.2 SVE Special Voting Deed. Carnival, P&O Princess, Carnival SVC, the P&O Princess Trustee and the Carnival SVC Owner shall execute and deliver the SVE Special Voting Deed in the Agreed Form; 2.2.3 Carnival Amendments. The second amended and restated articles of incorporation of Carnival shall be amended and restated in the Agreed Form (the "Carnival Amended Articles") and shall be filed with the Companies Registry of the Republic of Panama in accordance with the provisions of the PGCL, and the amended and restated By-Laws of Carnival shall be amended and restated in the Agreed Form (the "Carnival Amended By-Laws" and, collectively with the Carnival Amended Articles, the "Carnival Amendments"), and shall become effective; 2.2.4 P&O Princess Amendments. An amendment to each of the memorandum and articles of association of P&O Princess, in the Agreed Form (such memorandum as so amended, the "P&O Princess Amended Memorandum", such articles, as so amended, the "P&O Princess Amended Articles" and, collectively with the P&O Princess Amended Memorandum, the "P&O Princess Amendments") shall become effective; 2.2.5 P&O Princess Special Share. P&O Princess shall issue and allot the P&O Princess Special Share to Carnival, which shall make the Deposit. P&O Princess shall register the P&O Princess Trustee as the holder of the P&O Princess Special Share and issue a share certificate or holding statement for the P&O Princess Special Share to the P&O Princess Trustee; 2.2.6 Issuance and Dividend of SVT Shares. The P&O Princess Trustee shall issue to Carnival, in respect of the Deposit, one SVT Share for each share of Carnival Common Stock outstanding as of the Closing Date, and Carnival shall distribute, as a dividend to holders of Carnival Common Stock, one SVT Share for each share of Carnival Common Stock; -10-
2.2.7 Carnival Special Share. Carnival shall issue the Carnival Special Share to Carnival SVC, register Carnival SVC as the holder of the Carnival Special Share and issue a share certificate or a book statement for the Carnival Special Share to Carnival SVC; 2.2.8 Mutual Directors. To the extent that they are not already effective, (i) the appointment or election of the Mutual Directors designated pursuant to Section 4.8.2 as directors of each of Carnival and P&O Princess, comprising the entire board of directors of each of Carnival and P&O Princess, shall become effective, and (ii) the resignation of each director of Carnival or P&O Princess who is not designated as a Mutual Director shall become effective; 2.2.9 Officers. The appointment or election of the individuals identified as officers pursuant to Section 4.8.3 as officers of each of Carnival and P&O Princess shall become effective; 2.2.10 Deeds of Guarantee. Each Party shall execute and deliver to the other the Deeds of Guarantee; 2.2.11 Carnival Deed. Carnival shall execute and deliver the Carnival Deed; 2.2.12 Pairing Agreement. Carnival and the P&O Princess Trustee shall execute and deliver the Pairing Agreement; and 2.2.13 Other Documents. Each Party shall deliver to the other such other documents, instruments and certificates as the other Party may reasonably request in connection with the Transactions and the Closing. 2.3 Equalization Ratio. Subject to adjustment as set forth below in this Section 2.3, the Equalization Ratio to be set forth in the Equalization and Governance Agreement shall, as of the Effective Time, be one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to 0.3004 of a share of Carnival Common Stock, such that the voting rights and the rights to distributions (of income and capital) of one P&O Princess Ordinary Share shall be equivalent to the voting rights and the rights to distributions of 0.3004 of a share of Carnival Common Stock. If the Parties agree that the Equalization Ratio shall instead be 1:1, then they shall make such subdivisions and/or combinations of Carnival Common Stock and/or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, or other such actions, as they mutually agree are necessary to achieve that result. In either case, the Equalization Ratio (i) shall be adjusted, in the manner provided in the Equalization and Governance Agreement, for all actions occurring on or after the date hereof and at or before the Effective Time that would require an automatic adjustment to the Equalization Ratio pursuant to the terms of the Equalization and Governance Agreement as if such agreement were effective during such period, and (ii) subject to any such adjustment, shall be the Equalization Ratio as of the Effective Time; provided, however, that the Equalization Ratio shall not be adjusted for regular -11-
dividends declared prior to the Effective Time and permitted pursuant to Section 4.1.2. Such Equalization Ratio, as so adjusted from time to time, is referred to herein as the "Equalization Ratio". ARTICLE III Representations and Warranties 3.1 Representations and Warranties of Carnival and P&O Princess. Except as set forth in the corresponding sections or subsections of the disclosure letter, dated the date hereof and signed by an authorized officer, delivered by Carnival to P&O Princess or by P&O Princess to Carnival (each a "Disclosure Letter" and the "Carnival Disclosure Letter" and the "P&O Princess Disclosure Letter", respectively), as the case may be, Carnival (except for subparagraphs 3.1.2.2, 3.1.3.2, 3.1.5.2, 3.1.8(ii), and 3.1.9.2 below and references in Section 3.1.1 below to documents made available by P&O Princess to Carnival) hereby represents and warrants to P&O Princess, and P&O Princess (except for subparagraphs 3.1.2.1, 3.1.3.1, 3.1.5.1, 3.1.8(i), and 3.1.9.1 below and references in Section 3.1.1 below to documents made available by Carnival to P&O Princess), hereby represents and warrants to Carnival, that: 3.1.1 Organization, Good Standing and Qualification. Each of it and its Significant Subsidiaries is a corporation or other organization duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize the concept of good standing) under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all requisite corporate or similar power and authority, and has been duly authorized by all necessary approvals and orders, to own, operate and lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the ownership, operation or leasing of its assets or properties or conduct of its business requires such qualification, except for any such failures to be so organized, qualified or in good standing, or to have such power or authority, which, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it. Carnival has made available to P&O Princess complete and correct copies of its articles of incorporation and by-laws, and P&O Princess has made available to Carnival complete and correct copies of its memorandum and articles of association, in all cases as amended to date. Such articles of incorporation and by-laws or memorandum and articles of association, as the case may be, as so made available are in full force and effect. 3.1.2 Capital Structure. 3.1.2.1 The authorized capital stock of Carnival consists of 960,000,000 shares of Carnival Common Stock, of which 586,837,283 shares were issued and outstanding as of the close of business on January 3, 2003, and 40,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Carnival Preferred Stock") none of which is outstanding as of the date hereof. All of the outstanding shares of Carnival Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are paid and non-assessable. -12-
Carnival has no shares of Carnival Common Stock or Carnival Preferred Stock reserved for or otherwise subject to issuance, except that as of the close of business on January 3, 2003, there were no more than 56,570,829 shares of Carnival Common Stock subject to issuance pursuant to the plans of Carnival identified in paragraph 3.1.2.1 of the Carnival Disclosure Letter as being the only Compensation and Benefit Plans or agreements pursuant to which Carnival Common Stock may be issued (the "Carnival Stock Plans"). Each of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of each of Carnival's Significant Subsidiaries is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and owned by Carnival or a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of Carnival, in each case free and clear of any Lien. Except as set forth above or as contemplated by this Agreement, there are no preemptive or other outstanding rights, options, warrants, conversion rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, agreements, arrangements, calls, commitments or rights of any kind which obligate Carnival or any of its Subsidiaries to issue or sell any shares of capital stock or other securities of Carnival or any of its Subsidiaries or any securities or obligations convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for, or giving any Person a right to subscribe for or acquire from Carnival or any of its Subsidiaries, any securities of Carnival or any of its Subsidiaries, and no securities or obligations evidencing such rights are authorized, issued or outstanding. Except as described in the Carnival Disclosure Letter, Carnival does not have outstanding any bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or which are convertible into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) with the shareholders of Carnival on any matter. 3.1.2.2 The authorized share capital of P&O Princess is $375 million divided into 750,000,000 P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. As of the close of business on January 7, 2003, the allotted and issued share capital of P&O Princess consisted of 693,596,865 P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. All of those P&O Princess Ordinary Shares have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid or credited as fully paid. P&O Princess has no P&O Princess Ordinary Shares reserved for or otherwise subject to issuance, except that, as of the close of business on January 7, 2003, there were no more than 10,000,000 P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and no more than 2,000,000 P&O Princess ADSs subject to issuance pursuant to the plans of P&O Princess identified in subparagraph 3.1.2.2 of the P&O Princess Disclosure Letter as being the only Compensation and Benefit Plans or agreements pursuant to which P&O Princess Ordinary Shares may be issued (the "P&O Princess Option Plans"). Each of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of each of P&O Princess' Significant Subsidiaries is duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and owned by P&O Princess or a direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of P&O Princess, in each case free and clear of any Lien. Except as set forth above or as contemplated by this Agreement, there are no preemptive or other outstanding rights, options, warrants, conversion rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, agreements, arrangements, calls, commitments or rights of any kind which obligate P&O Princess or any of its Subsidiaries to issue or to sell any shares of capital stock or other securities of P&O Princess or any of its Subsidiaries or any securities or obligations convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for, or giving any Person a right to subscribe for or acquire from P&O Princess or any of its Subsidiaries, -13-
any securities of P&O Princess or any of its Subsidiaries, and no securities or obligations evidencing such rights are authorized, issued or outstanding. P&O Princess does not have outstanding any bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or which are convertible into or exercisable for securities having the right to vote) with the shareholders of P&O Princess on any matter. 3.1.3 Corporate Authority; Approval and Fairness. 3.1.3.1 Carnival has all requisite corporate power and authority and has taken all corporate action necessary in order to authorize, execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the Transactions, subject only to the approval of the Transactions (including the Carnival Amendments by the vote of the holders of not less than 50% of the outstanding shares of Carnival Common Stock entitled to vote thereon (the "Carnival Requisite Vote"). Assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by each party thereto other than Carnival or any of its Subsidiaries, this Agreement constitutes, and at the Effective Time each DLC Document to which Carnival will be or is a party will constitute, a valid and binding agreement of Carnival enforceable against Carnival in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles (the "Bankruptcy and Equity Exception"). The Board of Directors of Carnival has approved this Agreement (including the Exhibits hereto) and the Transactions. 3.1.3.2 P&O Princess has all requisite corporate power and authority and has taken all corporate action necessary in order to authorize, execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the Transactions, subject only to the approval of the Transactions (including the P&O Princess Amendments) by, on a show of hands, not less than 75% of the holders of the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares present in person or, on a poll, by the holders of not less than 75% of the votes attaching to the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares who vote in person or by proxy at the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting at which a quorum is present and acting throughout (the "P&O Princess Requisite Vote"). Assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by each party thereto other than P&O Princess or any of its Subsidiaries, this Agreement constitutes, and at the Effective Time each DLC Document to which P&O Princess will be or is a party will constitute, a valid and binding agreement of P&O Princess, enforceable against P&O Princess in accordance with its terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception. The Board of Directors of P&O Princess (A) has approved this Agreement (including the Exhibits hereto), and the Transactions and (B) has received the advice of its financial advisor, Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, to the effect that, as of the date of this Agreement, the terms of the DLC Transactions are fair and reasonable. 3.1.4 Governmental Filings; No Violations. 3.1.4.1 Other than the filings, consents, notices, approvals, confirmations, declarations and/or decisions listed in Section 3.1.4.1 of each Party's -14-
Disclosure Letter (all such filings, consents, notices, approvals, confirmations, declarations and/or decisions to be made, given or obtained by Carnival being the "Carnival Required Consents", and by P&O Princess being the "P&O Princess Required Consents") no filings, notices, approvals, confirmations, and/or declarations are required to be made by it or any of its Subsidiaries with, nor are any approvals, consents or other confirmations required to be obtained by it or any of its Subsidiaries from, any Governmental Entity, in connection with the execution and delivery by it of this Agreement and the consummation by it of the Transactions, except those the failure of which to make, give or obtain, individually or in the aggregate, is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it. 3.1.4.2 The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by it does not, and the consummation by it of the Transactions will not, constitute or result in (A) a breach or violation of, or a default under, its articles of incorporation or by-laws, in the case of Carnival, or memorandum or articles of association, in the case of P&O Princess, or the comparable governing instruments of any of the Significant Subsidiaries of Carnival and P&O Princess, (B) subject to making, giving or obtaining all Carnival Required Consents or P&O Princess Required Consents, as applicable, and all other necessary third-party consents as set forth in Section 3.1.4.2 of its Disclosure Letter, a breach or violation of, or a default under, or the termination, amendment, cancellation or acceleration of any obligations or penalties or the creation of a Lien, charge, "put" or "call" right, right of purchase or other encumbrance on the assets of it or any of its Subsidiaries (with or without notice, lapse of time or both) pursuant to any agreement, lease, license, insurance contract, contract, note, mortgage, loan, indenture, arrangement (including, without limitation, any financing arrangement) or other obligation ("Contracts") binding upon it or any of its Subsidiaries or any Law or governmental or non-governmental permit or license to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is or any of its or their assets is subject or bound, (C) any change in the rights or obligations of either Party under any of its Contracts, or (D) any employee of it or its Subsidiaries being entitled to severance pay under, acceleration of the time of payment or vesting or triggering of any payment of compensation or benefits under, increasing the amount payable or triggering of any other obligation pursuant to, any of the Compensation and Benefit Plans involving in any such case an amount or value greater than $2.5 million for any individual or $10 million in the aggregate or any breach or violation of, or a default under, any of the Compensation and Benefit Plans, except, in the case of clause (B) or (C) above, for any breach, violation, default, termination, amendment, cancellation, acceleration, creation or change that, individually or in the aggregate, is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it. Neither Party nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of, or default under, or with the lapse of time or giving of notice or both would be in violation of, or default under, any provision of any agreement, instrument or arrangement pursuant to which it has borrowed money or otherwise incurred indebtedness where the resulting acceleration of all the borrowed money or indebtedness under all such agreements, instruments and arrangements would be greater than $100 million. -15-
3.1.5 Reports; Financial Statements. 3.1.5.1 Carnival has made available to P&O Princess copies of (A) each registration statement, report, or other document prepared by it or its Subsidiaries and filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") since November 30, 2001 (the "Carnival Audit Date"), including Carnival's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2001 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended February 28, 2002, May 31, 2002 and August 31, 2002, each in the form (including exhibits, annexes and any amendments thereto) filed with the SEC (collectively, including any such registration statement, report, or other document filed with the SEC subsequent to the date hereof, the "Carnival Reports") and (B) all circulars, reports and other documents distributed by Carnival to its shareholders since the Carnival Audit Date (it being understood that all documents filed with the SEC shall be deemed to have been made available for purposes of this Section 3.1.5.1). As of their respective dates, the Carnival Reports did not, and any Carnival Reports filed with the SEC subsequent to the date hereof will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Each of the consolidated balance sheets included in or incorporated by reference into the Carnival Reports (including the related notes and schedules) fairly presents, or in the case of those filed with the SEC after the date hereof will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Carnival and its Subsidiaries as of its date and each of the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows included in or incorporated by reference into the Carnival Reports (including any related notes and schedules) fairly presents, or in the case of those filed with the SEC after the date hereof will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated results of operations, retained earnings and changes in cash flows, as the case may be, of Carnival and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the periods set forth therein (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to notes and normal year-end audit adjustments that are not expected to be material in amount or effect), in each case in accordance with US GAAP consistently applied during the periods involved except as may be noted therein. All of the Carnival Reports, as of their respective dates (and as of the date of any amendment to the respective Carnival Report), complied, or in the case of those filed with the SEC after the date hereof will comply, as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Except as disclosed in the Carnival Reports filed prior to the date hereof, Carnival and its consolidated Subsidiaries have not incurred any liabilities that are of a nature that would be required to be disclosed on a balance sheet of Carnival and its consolidated Subsidiaries or the footnotes thereto prepared in conformity with US GAAP, other than (A) liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (B) liabilities incurred in accordance with Section 4.1, (C) liabilities for Taxes in respect of income, profits or gains earned in the ordinary course of business or (D) liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to Carnival. -16-
3.1.5.2 P&O Princess has made available to Carnival copies of (A) each registration statement, report or other document prepared by it or its Subsidiaries and filed with, or furnished to, the SEC since December 31, 2001 (the "P&O Princess Audit Date", with the P&O Princess Audit Date and the Carnival Audit Date each being referred to herein as the relevant Party's "Audit Date"), including P&O Princess' Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2001 and interim financial Reports on Form 6-K for the quarters ended March 31, 2002, June 30, 2002 and September 30, 2002, each in the form (including exhibits, annexes and any amendments thereto) filed with, or furnished to, the SEC (collectively, including any such registration statement, report or other document filed with, or furnished to, the SEC subsequent to the date hereof, the "P&O Princess US Reports"); and (B) all circulars, reports and other documents distributed by P&O Princess to its shareholders since the P&O Princess Audit Date (it being understood that all documents filed with the SEC shall be deemed to have been made available for purposes of this Section 3.1.5.2). As of their respective dates, the P&O Princess US Reports did not, and any P&O Princess US Report filed with, or furnished to, the SEC subsequent to the date hereof will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. All of the P&O Princess US Reports, as of their respective dates (and as of the date of any amendment to the respective P&O Princess US Reports), complied, or in the case of those filed with, or furnished to, the SEC after the date hereof will comply, as to form in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. All documents notified by P&O Princess to, or filed by P&O Princess with, the UKLA since the P&O Princess Audit Date, including any documents notified by P&O Princess to, or filed by P&O Princess with, the UKLA subsequent to the date hereof (the "P&O Princess UK Reports", collectively with the P&O Princess US Reports, the "P&O Princess Reports", with the Carnival Reports and the P&O Princess Reports each being referred to as the relevant Party's "Reports") complied, or in the case of those notified or filed by P&O Princess subsequent to the date hereof will comply, as to form, in all material respects with the applicable provisions, of the London Listing Rules and the Companies Act. As of their respective dates, the P&O Princess UK Reports did not, and any P&O Princess UK Report notified by P&O Princess to, or filed by P&O Princess with, the UKLA subsequent to the date hereof will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect. Each of the consolidated balance sheets included in or incorporated by reference into the P&O Princess Reports (including the related notes and schedules) fairly presents, or will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of P&O Princess and its Subsidiaries as of its date, and each of the related consolidated statements of profit and loss accounts, changes in shareholders' funds, total recognized gains and losses and cash flows included in or incorporated by reference into the P&O Princess Reports (including any related notes and schedules) fairly presents, or, in the case of those filed with or furnished to, the SEC after the date hereof, will fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated results of operations, retained earnings and cash flows of P&O Princess and its consolidated -17-
Subsidiaries for the periods set forth therein (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to notes and normal year-end audit adjustments that are not expected to be material in amount or effect), in each case in accordance with UK GAAP consistently applied during the periods involved except as may be noted therein. The related notes to the P&O Princess US Reports filed with the SEC reconciling such consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of income, statement of changes in shareholders' interest, and statement of cash flows comply in all material respects with the requirements of the SEC applicable to such reconciliation to US GAAP. Except as disclosed in the P&O Princess Reports filed prior to the date hereof, P&O Princess and its consolidated Subsidiaries have not incurred any liabilities that are of a nature that would be required to be disclosed on a balance sheet of P&O Princess and its consolidated Subsidiaries or the footnotes thereto prepared in conformity with UK GAAP, other than (A) liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (B) liabilities incurred in accordance with Section 4.1, (C) liabilities for Taxes in respect of income, profits or gains earned in the ordinary course of business or (D) liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to P&O Princess. 3.1.6 Absence of Certain Changes. Except as disclosed in its Reports filed or furnished prior to the date hereof, or as expressly contemplated by this Agreement, since its Audit Date it and its Significant Subsidiaries have conducted their respective businesses only in, and have not engaged in any material transaction ("material" being construed in the context of the Party and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole) other than according to, the ordinary and usual course of such businesses, and there has not been (i) any Material Adverse Change with respect to it; (ii) declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or other distribution in cash, stock or property in respect of its capital stock, except for dividends or other distributions on its capital stock publicly announced prior to the date hereof and except as expressly permitted hereby; (iii) any split in its capital stock, combination, subdivision or reclassification of any of its capital stock or issuance or authorization of any issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its capital stock, except as expressly contemplated hereby or (iv) any change by it in accounting principles, practices or methods except as required by changes in US GAAP or UK GAAP, as the case may be. Since its Audit Date, except as provided for herein or as disclosed in its Reports filed or furnished prior to the date hereof, there has not been any increase in the compensation payable or that could become payable by it or any of its Subsidiaries to officers or key employees, or any amendment of, or acceleration of the time of payment or vesting under, any of its Compensation and Benefit Plans or agreements, other than increases or amendments in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice that are not, individually or aggregate, material ("material" being construed in the context of the Party and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole) or that are contemplated by this Agreement. 3.1.7 Litigation and Liabilities. 3.1.7.1 Except as disclosed in its Reports filed or furnished prior to the date hereof, there are no (i) civil, criminal or administrative actions, suits, claims, hearings, investigations or proceedings existing, pending or, to the knowledge of, -18-
in the case of Carnival, its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel (the "Carnival Officers") and, in the case of P&O Princess, its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel (the "P&O Princess Officers") threatened, against it or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) obligations or liabilities, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be disclosed, or any other facts or circumstances of which, in the case of Carnival, the Carnival Officers, and, in the case of P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Officers, have knowledge that would reasonably be expected to result in any claims against, or obligations or liabilities of, it or any of its Subsidiaries, except, in each case, for those that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it. 3.1.7.2 Except as disclosed in its Reports filed or furnished prior to the date hereof it and its Subsidiaries hold all permits, licenses, franchises, variances, exemptions, orders and approvals of Governmental Entities which are necessary for the operation of the businesses as now being conducted by it and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (as to each Party, its "Permits"), no suspension or cancellation of any of its Permits is pending or, to the knowledge of the Carnival Officers in the case of Carnival or the P&O Princess Officers in the case of P&O Princess, threatened and it and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of its Permits, except for any such failures to hold, suspensions or cancellations of, or failures to comply with, such Permits that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it. Neither it nor its Subsidiaries is in violation with respect to any Laws of any Governmental Entity, except for any such violations which, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it. 3.1.8 Brokers and Finders. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries, officers, directors or employees has employed any broker or finder or incurred any liability for any brokerage fees, commissions or finders' fees in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Transactions, except that (i) Carnival has retained Merrill Lynch International and UBS Warburg Ltd. as its financial advisors and disclosed its arrangements with such financial advisors to P&O Princess prior to the date hereof and (ii) P&O Princess has retained Schroder Salomon Smith Barney as its financial advisors and disclosed its arrangements with such financial advisor to Carnival prior to the date hereof. 3.1.9 Ownership of Other Party's Common Stock. 3.1.9.1 Carnival and its Subsidiaries do not "beneficially own" (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) any P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or P&O Princess American Depositary Shares. 3.1.9.2 P&O Princess and its Subsidiaries do not "beneficially own" (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) any shares of Carnival Common Stock or any debt of Carnival that is convertible into such shares. -19-
3.1.10 Taxes. Except for any such matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it, it and each of its Subsidiaries (i) have prepared in good faith and duly and timely filed (taking into account any extension of time within which to file) all Tax Returns required to be filed by any of them and all such filed Tax Returns are complete and accurate in all material respects; (ii) have paid all Taxes that are required to have been paid including any Taxes which it or any of its Subsidiaries are obligated to withhold from amounts owing to any employee, creditor or third party, except with respect to matters contested in good faith; (iii) have not waived any statute of limitations with respect to Taxes or agreed to any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency and (iv) have no liability with respect to Taxes that accrued on or before November 30, 2001 (in the case of Carnival) or December 31, 2001 (in the case of P&O Princess) in excess of the amounts accrued with respect thereto that are reflected in the financial statements included in the Reports filed or furnished on or prior to the date hereof. Except for any such matters that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect with respect to it, there are no pending or, to the knowledge of the P&O Princess Officers or the Carnival Officers (as appropriate) threatened in writing, any audits, examinations, investigations or other proceedings in respect of Taxes and Tax matters or any unresolved questions or claims concerning its or any of its Subsidiaries' Tax liability. As used in this Agreement, (i) the term "Tax" (including, with correlative meaning, the terms "Taxes", and "Taxable") includes all national, federal, state, local and foreign income, profits, franchise, gross receipts, environmental, customs duty, capital stock, capital gains, severance, stamp, payroll, sales, employment, unemployment, disability, use, property, withholding, excise, production, value added, occupancy and other taxes, duties or assessments of any nature whatsoever whether levied in the United Kingdom, Panama, the United States or any other country, together with all interest, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such amounts and any interest in respect of such penalties and additions, and (ii) the term "Tax Return" includes all returns and reports (including elections, declarations, disclosures, schedules, estimates and information returns) required to be supplied to a Tax authority relating to Taxes. 3.1.11 Carnival Common Stock to be Issued in the Offer. All of the shares of Carnival Common Stock to be issued in the Offer in accordance with this Agreement will be, when so issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable and free of preemptive rights. ARTICLE IV Covenants 4.1 Interim Operations. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess covenants and agrees as to itself and its Subsidiaries that, after the date hereof and until the Effective Time, except (i) as the other Party shall otherwise approve in writing, (ii) as set forth in the corresponding section of the applicable Disclosure Letter, (iii) as otherwise -20-
expressly contemplated by or provided in this Agreement, or (iv) as required by applicable Law: 4.1.1 Ordinary Course. The businesses of it and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) shall be conducted in the usual, regular and ordinary course consistent with past practice and, to the extent consistent therewith, it and each of its Significant Subsidiaries shall use its reasonable best efforts to preserve its business organization and present lines of business materially intact and maintain its commercially reasonable insurance (taking into account industry practice and market conditions) and material rights and franchises and preserve its existing material relations with third parties. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, none of the following actions by any Party and/or its Subsidiaries after the date of this Agreement shall be prohibited by this Agreement: (i) any internal reorganizations and related actions pursuant thereto involving such Party and/or its Subsidiaries that do not have and are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on such Party, (ii) any purchase, sale or charters of any vessels or any amendment to, or termination of, new-building contracts, (iii) any other acquisitions or investments for consideration not exceeding in the aggregate $500 million plus the net proceeds of any divestments referred to in the next clause, and (iv) any divestments the net proceeds of which do not exceed $500 million in the aggregate; 4.1.2 Governing Documents; Share Capital; Dividends. It shall not (i) amend its articles of incorporation or by-laws, in the case of Carnival, or its memorandum and articles of association, in the case of P&O Princess (except for any amendments made solely to preserve its tax position to the extent necessary or desirable); (ii) split, combine, subdivide or reclassify its outstanding shares of capital stock or issue or authorize or propose the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for, shares of its capital stock; (iii) declare, set aside or pay any dividend or distribution payable in cash, stock or property in respect of any capital stock other than (A) in the case of Carnival, regular quarterly cash dividends consistent with past practice and (B) in the case of P&O Princess, regular quarterly cash dividends consistent with past practice (it being understood that P&O Princess may accelerate payment of its dividend for the fourth quarter of the 2002 financial year to March 2003); or (iv) reduce, cancel, repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or permit any of its Subsidiaries to reduce, cancel, purchase or otherwise acquire (except for repurchases, redemptions or acquisitions required by (A) the terms of its capital stock or securities outstanding on the date hereof or (B) the respective terms as of the date hereof of, or in connection with, any Carnival Stock Plans, in the case of Carnival, or P&O Princess Option Plans, in the case of P&O Princess, or any dividend reinvestment plans as in effect on the date hereof in the ordinary course of the operation of such plans), any shares of the capital stock of P&O Princess or Carnival, as the case may be, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of its capital stock; 4.1.3 Issuance of Securities; Indebtedness; Acquisitions and Dispositions. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) issue, sell, pledge, dispose of or encumber any shares of, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable -21-
for, or rights, options, warrants, conversion rights, stock appreciation rights, redemption rights, repurchase rights, agreements, arrangements, calls, commitments or rights of any kind to acquire, the capital stock of P&O Princess or Carnival, as the case may be, of any class other than (x) in the case of Carnival, shares of Carnival Common Stock issuable pursuant to options outstanding on the date hereof under the Carnival Stock Plans, additional options or rights to acquire shares of Carnival Common Stock granted under the terms of any Carnival Stock Plan as in effect on the date hereof in the ordinary course of the operation of such Carnival Stock Plan or pursuant to Carnival's convertible debt securities outstanding as of the date hereof, (y) in the case of P&O Princess, P&O Princess Ordinary Shares issuable or transferable pursuant to options outstanding on the date hereof under the P&O Princess Option Plans and additional options or rights to acquire P&O Princess Ordinary Shares granted under the terms of any P&O Princess Option Plans as in effect on the date hereof in the ordinary course of the operation of such P&O Princess Option Plan and (z) issuances of securities in connection with grants or awards of stock-based compensation made in accordance with paragraph 4.1.4 hereof), or (ii) incur or modify any significant indebtedness or other liability except in the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice or pursuant to the financial plans communicated to the other Party in writing prior to the date hereof. Neither it nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries will merge or consolidate with any Person; 4.1.4 Employee Benefits. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall terminate, establish, adopt, enter into, make any new grants or awards of stock-based compensation or other benefits under, accelerate the time of payment or vesting under, amend or otherwise modify any Compensation and Benefit Plan or agreement or increase the salary, wage, bonus or other compensation of any directors, officers or employees except for grants or awards to directors, officers and employees of it or its Subsidiaries under existing Compensation and Benefit Plans, agreements or otherwise in each case in the normal and usual course of business consistent with past practice (which shall include normal periodic performance reviews and related compensation and benefit increases); 4.1.5 Representations and Warranties. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall take any action or omit to take any action that would cause any of its representations and warranties not to satisfy the condition set forth in Section 5.2.1 or 5.3.1, as applicable, as of the Closing Date; 4.1.6 Non-Competition Agreements. Neither Party shall enter into or renew any non-compete, exclusivity or similar agreement that would restrict or limit, in any material respect as of the Effective Time (material being construed in the context of the Party and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole), its operations; 4.1.7 Satisfaction of Closing Conditions. Neither Party shall take any action or omit to take any action for the purpose of preventing, delaying or impeding the consummation of the Transactions; and -22-
4.1.8 No Related Actions. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries shall authorize or enter into an agreement to do any of the foregoing. 4.2 Acquisition Proposals. 4.2.1 No Shop. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess agrees that, subject to Section 4.2.3 and except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of the officers or directors of it or its Subsidiaries shall, and that it shall direct and use its reasonable best efforts to cause its and its Subsidiaries' officers, directors, employees, investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, financial advisors, agents or other representatives (collectively, with respect to each of Carnival and P&O Princess, such Person's "Representatives") not to, directly or indirectly, initiate, solicit, encourage or otherwise facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal or offer by a third party with respect to a merger, takeover, reorganization, share exchange, scheme of arrangement, dual-holding company transaction, consolidation or similar transaction involving Carnival or P&O Princess, or any purchase of or joint venture (or similar arrangement) involving, or offer to purchase or enter into a joint venture (or similar arrangement) involving, all or 15% or more of the equity securities of Carnival or P&O Princess, as the case may be, or of its and its Subsidiaries' assets taken as a whole (any such proposal or offer being hereinafter referred to as an "Acquisition Proposal"). Each of Carnival and P&O Princess further agrees that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of its or its Subsidiaries' officers or directors shall, and that it shall direct and use its reasonable best efforts to cause its Representatives not to, directly or indirectly, have any discussions with or provide any confidential information or data to any Person relating to an Acquisition Proposal or engage in any negotiations concerning an Acquisition Proposal, or otherwise facilitate any effort or attempt to make or implement an Acquisition Proposal; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent either Carnival or P&O Princess or its board of directors from (i) negotiating with or furnishing information to any Person who has made a bona fide unsolicited written Acquisition Proposal which did not result from a breach of this Section 4.2.1 (or any action that would have constituted such a breach if the Representatives of such Party were bound by this Section to the same extent as such Party) or Section 6 of, or any comparable no-shop provision in, the Stockholders Deed Polls (or any action that would have constituted a breach if the Representatives (as defined in the Stockholders Deed Polls) were bound by such Section to the same extent as the Carnival Major Stockholders) (each, a "Qualifying Acquisition Proposal") or (ii) recommending a Qualifying Acquisition Proposal to its shareholders, if and only to the extent that, in each case, the board of directors of such Party determines in good faith after consultation with outside legal counsel that the failure to take such action would result in a breach of the fiduciary duties of the Board of Directors and such Qualifying Acquisition Proposal is a Superior Proposal. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Superior Proposal" means in respect of Carnival or P&O Princess, as applicable, any Qualifying Acquisition Proposal by a third party (x) on terms which the board of directors of such Party determines in its good faith judgment to be more favorable from a financial point of view to its shareholders than the Transactions after consultation with its financial advisors (which advice shall be communicated to the other Party) and after giving the -23-
other Party at least ten Business Days to respond to such third party Qualifying Acquisition Proposal, (y) which the board of directors of such Party determines in its good faith judgment to constitute a transaction that is reasonably likely to be consummated on the terms set forth, taking into account all legal, financial, regulatory and other aspects of such proposal and (z) which relates to at least a majority of the consolidated assets by value or the securities by voting power of such Party. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess agrees that it will immediately cease and cause to be terminated any existing activities, discussions or negotiations with any Person conducted heretofore with respect to any Acquisition Proposal. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess also agrees that if it has not already done so, it will promptly request each Person, if any, that has heretofore executed a confidentiality agreement within the 12 months prior to the date hereof in connection with its consideration of any Acquisition Proposal to return or destroy all confidential information heretofore furnished to such Person by or on behalf of it or any of its Subsidiaries. 4.2.2 Notifications. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess agrees that it will take the necessary steps promptly to inform its Subsidiaries and its and its Subsidiaries' Representatives of the obligations undertaken in this Section 4.2. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess agrees that it will notify the other promptly if any inquiries, proposals or offers relating to or constituting an Acquisition Proposal are received by, any information is requested from, or any such discussions or negotiations are sought to be initiated or continued with, it, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or its Subsidiaries' Representatives indicating, in connection with such notice, the name of such Person and the material terms and conditions of any proposals or offers and thereafter shall keep the other informed, on a current basis, of the status and material terms of any such proposals or offers, including providing the other Party with copies of any information provided to such other Person. 4.2.3 Compliance with Exchange Act, Exchange Regulations and City Code. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prohibit a Party from taking and disclosing to its shareholders a position contemplated by Rule 14e-2(a) under the Exchange Act with respect to an Acquisition Proposal by means of a tender or exchange offer or taking such action and making such recommendations as its board of directors shall determine, in good faith after consultation with outside legal counsel, is required in order to comply with any obligations imposed on it by the SEC, the NYSE, the City Code, the Takeover Panel, the London Stock Exchange or the UKLA in relation to any Acquisition Proposal (provided that it is hereby acknowledged, for the avoidance of doubt, that no provision of the City Code requires P&O Princess or its directors to solicit or initiate any Acquisition Proposal). If the SEC, the NYSE, the Takeover Panel, UKLA or London Stock Exchange, as applicable, requests or directs a Party to take any course of action in connection with, or which would have any effect on, the Transactions, then such Party agrees, solely to the extent practicable (having regard to the time available and the nature and urgency of such request or direction), to (i) notify the other Party of this fact and (ii) consult with the other Party prior to taking any action with respect to such request or direction. -24-
4.3 Information Supplied. 4.3.1 Shareholder Documents. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess each agrees, as to itself and its Subsidiaries that: 4.3.1.1 It shall provide such information for inclusion in each of the Shareholder Documents, such that each Shareholder Document shall contain all particulars relating to Carnival and P&O Princess required to comply in all material respects with all applicable Laws, including the PGCL, the Companies Act, the City Code and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (and the rules and regulations thereunder), the requirements of the London Stock Exchange, the listing rules of the UKLA, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC and the NYSE; 4.3.1.2 The information provided by such Party for inclusion or incorporation by reference in any of the Shareholder Documents shall not, at the date of mailing to shareholders and at the time or times of the Carnival Shareholders Meeting or the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting, as applicable, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect; and 4.3.1.3 If at any time prior to the Carnival Shareholders Meeting or the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting, as applicable, any information relating to Carnival or P&O Princess, or any of their respective Affiliates, officers or directors, should be discovered by Carnival or P&O Princess which should be set forth in a supplement to any of the Shareholder Documents, so that such document would not include any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect, the Party which discovers such information shall promptly notify the other Party and, to the extent required by Law, an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information shall be promptly disseminated to the Carnival shareholders or the P&O Princess shareholders, as applicable. 4.4 Shareholders Meetings. Carnival and P&O Princess will each respectively take all action necessary to convene a meeting of the holders of Carnival Common Stock to obtain the Carnival Requisite Vote (the "Carnival Shareholders Meeting") and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares to obtain the P&O Princess Requisite Vote (the "P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting") to approve the Transactions, as soon as possible after the date hereof, and the Parties shall liaise to ensure that the Carnival Shareholders Meeting will be held two days prior to the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting; provided that if either Party elects to hold its meeting on an earlier date, it may do so; provided, however, the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting may not be convened prior to the 20th Business Day after commencement of the Offer. Subject to fiduciary obligations and the requirements of applicable Law, the board of directors of each of Carnival and P&O Princess shall recommend to its respective shareholders the -25-
approval of, in the case of Carnival, the Carnival Amendments and, in the case of P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Amendments, and in each case, this Agreement and the DLC Transactions, which recommendation shall be set forth in the Carnival Circular and the P&O Princess EGM Circular, respectively, and shall take all lawful action to solicit such approval. The Carnival Shareholders Meeting and the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting will be held regardless of any failure to make such recommendation or any change in such recommendation. 4.5 Filings; Other Actions; Notification. 4.5.1 Filings. As promptly as practicable after the execution of this Agreement, Carnival and P&O Princess shall prepare and make all necessary filings and notifications to any Governmental Entity required to implement the DLC Transactions, including the filing of the Shareholder Documents with the SEC and UKLA, as appropriate. Carnival and P&O Princess shall cooperate to conform the content of the Shareholder Documents, to the extent reasonably practicable and appropriate. Carnival and P&O Princess each shall use its reasonable best efforts to have the Registration Statements declared effective by the SEC as promptly as practicable after filing. P&O Princess and Carnival each shall use its reasonable best efforts to have the P&O Princess EGM Circular approved by the UKLA as promptly as practicable after filing. Carnival and P&O Princess shall each provide the other and its counsel with copies of any comments Carnival or P&O Princess or its counsel may receive from the SEC or its Staff or the UKLA, as applicable, with respect to the Shareholders Documents promptly after the receipt of such comments, and Carnival and P&O Princess shall cooperate (and shall cause their respective counsel to cooperate) reasonably in responding promptly and appropriately to such comments. Carnival shall promptly prepare and file a supplemental listing application with the NYSE with respect to the shares of Carnival Common Stock to be issued in the Offer and shall use its reasonable best efforts to have such shares of Carnival Common Stock approved for listing by the NYSE, subject only to official notice of issuance, and shall promptly prepare and file a listing application with the NYSE with respect to the SVT Shares and shall use its reasonable best efforts to have such SVT Shares approved for listing by the NYSE, subject only to official notice of issuance. 4.5.2 Mailing of Documents. Carnival shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Carnival Circular to be mailed to its shareholders as promptly as practicable after the SEC has declared the Second Joint Registration Statement effective. P&O Princess shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the P&O Princess EGM Circular to its shareholders, and Carnival shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Offer Documents to be mailed to the P&O Princess shareholders as promptly as practicable after the SEC has declared the Joint Registration Statement effective and UKLA has approved the P&O Princess EGM Circular. 4.5.3 Cooperation. Carnival and P&O Princess shall each cooperate with the other and (i) use (and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use) all their respective reasonable best efforts promptly to take or cause to be taken all -26-
actions, and do or cause to be done all things, necessary, proper or advisable under this Agreement and applicable Laws to consummate and make effective the Transactions as soon as practicable, including preparing and filing as promptly as practicable all documentation to effect all necessary filings, notices, petitions, statements, registrations, submissions of information, applications and other documents, (ii) use (and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use) all their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain as promptly as practicable all approvals, consents, registrations, permits, authorizations and other confirmations required to be obtained from any third party (other than Carnival Required Consents and P&O Princess Required Consents) necessary, proper or advisable to consummate the Transactions, and (iii) use (and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to use) their respective reasonable best efforts to take or cause to be taken all actions, and do or cause to be done all things, necessary, proper or advisable to obtain the Carnival Required Consents or P&O Princess Required Consents, as the case may be; provided that neither Party shall be required by this Section 4.5.3(ii) or (iii) to accept or agree to any conditions, terms or restrictions in connection with any such Carnival Required Consent or P&O Princess Required Consent, as the case may be, which, individually or in the aggregate, would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on P&O Princess and/or Carnival after the Effective Time (it being understood that, for this purpose, materiality shall be considered with reference to the total equity market value of P&O Princess and Carnival as a unified commercial enterprise). Subject to applicable Laws relating to the exchange of information, Carnival and P&O Princess shall have the right to review in advance, and to the extent practicable each will consult the other on, all the information relating to Carnival and its Subsidiaries or P&O Princess and its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, that appears in any filing made with, or written materials submitted to, any third party and/or any Governmental Entity in connection with the Transactions. In exercising the foregoing right, each of Carnival and P&O Princess shall act reasonably and as promptly as practicable. 4.5.4 Furnishing Information. Carnival and P&O Princess each shall, upon request by the other, furnish the other with all information concerning itself, its Subsidiaries, directors, officers and shareholders and such other matters as may be reasonably necessary or advisable in connection with the Shareholder Documents or any other necessary or appropriate filing, notice, statement, registration, submission of information or application made by or on behalf of Carnival or P&O Princess or any of their respective Subsidiaries to any third party and/or any Governmental Entity in connection with the Transactions. 4.5.5 Status. Carnival and P&O Princess each shall keep the other apprised of the status of matters relating to completion of the Transactions, including promptly furnishing the other with copies of notices or other communications received by Carnival or P&O Princess, as the case may be, or any of its Subsidiaries, from any third party and/or any Governmental Entity with respect to the Transactions. Carnival and P&O Princess each shall give prompt notice to the other of any change that is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect on it or of any failure of any condition set forth in Article V to the other Party's obligations to effect the Transactions. -27-
4.5.6 Consultation; Participation. Prior to making any filing, notice, petition, statement, registration, submission of information or application to or with any third party and/or Governmental Entity (including any securities exchange) in connection with the consummation of the Transactions and except as may be required by Law or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with or rules of any securities exchange, each Party shall make all reasonable efforts to consult with the other Party with respect to the content of such filing, notice, petition, statement, registration, submission of information or application and to provide the other Party with copies of the proposed filing, notice, petition, statement, registration, statement of information or application. Carnival and P&O Princess each shall not agree to participate in any meeting with any Governmental Entity in respect of any filings, investigation or other inquiry relating to the Transactions unless it consults with the other Party in advance and, to the extent practicable and permitted by such Governmental Entity, gives the other Party the opportunity to attend and participate thereat. The foregoing requirements of Section 4.5.6 shall not apply to P&O Princess' discussions and meetings with the UK Inland Revenue with respect to tonnage taxes and amendments to existing tonnage tax elections; provided that P&O Princess shall notify Carnival of any such discussions and meetings, and to the extent practicable, consult with Carnival with respect thereto. 4.5.7 Cooperation in Defense of Claim. In the event any claim, action, suit investigation or other proceeding by any Governmental Entity or other Person or other legal or administrative proceeding is commenced that questions the validity or legality of this Agreement or any of the Transactions or claims damages in connection therewith, the Parties agree to cooperate and use their reasonable best efforts, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4.5.3, to defend against and respond thereto. 4.6 Access. In order to facilitate consummation of the Transactions, the Parties hereby agree that upon reasonable request to an executive officer of P&O Princess or Carnival, as the case may be, designated for the purpose, and except as may otherwise be required by applicable Law, each Party shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) afford the other Party's Representatives access, during normal business hours throughout the period prior to the Effective Time, to its properties, books, contracts and records and, during such period, each shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) furnish promptly to the other all information concerning its business, properties and personnel as may be requested by the other Party which it reasonably requires in order to investigate and confirm the accuracy of such Party's representations and warranties and the satisfaction of the conditions to Closing relating thereto; provided that no receipt of information pursuant to this Section shall affect or be deemed to modify any representation or warranty made by Carnival or P&O Princess hereunder; and provided, further that the foregoing shall not require Carnival or P&O Princess to permit any inquiry, or to disclose any information, that in the reasonable judgment of Carnival or P&O Princess, as the case may be, would (i) violate any antitrust or competition Law or (ii) result in the disclosure of any trade secrets of third parties or violate any of its obligations with respect to confidentiality to third parties if Carnival or P&O Princess, as the case may be, shall have used reasonable efforts to obtain the consent of such third party to such inspection or disclosure. All such information shall be governed by the -28-
terms of the Confidentiality Agreement, dated October 11, 2002, between the Parties (the "Confidentiality Agreement"), including without limitation all such information disclosed in the Disclosure Letters. 4.7 Publicity. Carnival and P&O Princess shall to the extent practicable (i) consult with each other and, except as may be required by Law or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with or rules of any national securities exchange or as required by the Takeover Panel, mutually agree on the content prior to issuing any press releases or otherwise making public announcements with respect to the Transactions and (ii) consult with each other prior to issuing any press releases or otherwise making public announcements which could materially affect the Transactions. 4.8 Benefits and Other Matters. 4.8.1 Director and Officer Liability. 4.8.1.1 P&O Princess and Carnival each agree that all rights to indemnification and all limitations on liability existing in favor of any Indemnitee (as defined below) in respect of acts or omissions of such Indemnitee on or prior to the Effective Time as provided in the articles of incorporation and by-laws, in the case of Carnival, or memorandum and articles of association, in the case of P&O Princess, or an agreement between an Indemnitee and it or its Subsidiaries in effect as of the date hereof shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the terms thereof. 4.8.1.2 For six years after the Effective Time, P&O Princess or Carnival, as the case may be, shall indemnify and hold harmless the individuals who on or prior to the Effective Time were officers or directors of either Party or either Party's Subsidiaries (the "Indemnitees") to the same extent as set forth in Section 4.8.1.1 above. In the event any claim in respect of which indemnification is available pursuant to the foregoing provisions is asserted or made within such six-year period, all rights to indemnification shall continue until such claim is disposed of or all judgments, orders, decrees or other rulings in connection with such claim are duly satisfied. 4.8.1.3 For six years after the Effective Time, P&O Princess and Carnival shall provide officers' and directors' liability insurance in respect of acts or omissions occurring prior to the Effective Time covering each such Person currently covered by its officers' and directors' liability insurance policy on terms with respect to coverage and in amounts no less favorable than those of such policy in effect on the date hereof; provided, however, that during such period, Carnival and P&O Princess shall be required to maintain or procure as much coverage as can be obtained for the remainder of such period for an annual premium not in excess of 200% of the current annual premium paid by P&O Princess or Carnival, as the case may be, for its existing coverage. -29-
4.8.1.4 The obligations of P&O Princess and Carnival under this Section 4.8.1 shall not be terminated or modified in such a manner as to adversely affect any Indemnitee to whom this Section 4.8.1 applies without the consent of such affected Indemnitee (it being expressly agreed that the Indemnitees to whom this Section 4.8.1 applies shall be third party beneficiaries of this Section 4.8.1). 4.8.1.5 Each Party (the "Providing Party") shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permissible under applicable Law, the officers and directors of the other party in respect of all losses, claims, damages, costs, expenses and liabilities arising from or in connection with the information provided by such Providing Party for use in the Shareholder Documents pursuant to Section 4.3 which contains any untrue statement of a material fact or an omission to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. 4.8.2 Directors of Carnival and P&O Princess. At the Effective Time, the board of directors of each of Carnival and P&O Princess shall consist of the individuals listed on Exhibit J (the "Mutual Directors"). Such Mutual Directors shall be the directors of each of Carnival and P&O Princess from and after the Effective Time until their successors have been duly elected or appointed and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal in accordance with P&O Princess' memorandum and articles and Carnival's restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, in each case as then in effect. Carnival and P&O Princess agree to procure such resignations of their respective directors as may be necessary so that at the Effective Time the Mutual Directors are the only directors of Carnival and P&O Princess. 4.8.3 Executive Officers. At the Effective Time, Micky Arison shall be elected or appointed as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival and P&O Princess, and Howard S. Frank shall be elected or appointed as Chief Operating Officer of Carnival and P&O Princess, to serve in such capacities until their respective successors are elected or appointed and shall have qualified in accordance with the P&O Princess' memorandum and articles and Carnival's restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, in each case as then in effect. If at or immediately prior to the Effective Time, either of such individuals shall be unwilling or unable to serve, a person to fill such position shall be designated by the chief executive officer of Carnival at such time. 4.9 Expenses. Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.5, whether or not the Transactions are consummated, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions shall be paid by the Party incurring such expense, except that the Parties each shall pay one-half of filing fees and printer costs and expenses in connection with the preparation and filing of the Shareholder Documents. 4.10 Other Actions by Carnival and P&O Princess. 4.10.1 Dividends. Except with respect to the distribution of the 0 SVT Shares by Carnival contemplated by this Agreement, Carnival and P&O Princess shall coordinate the declaration, setting of record dates and payment dates of dividends on Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares so that the respective -30-
holders of Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares do not receive two dividends in respect of the calendar quarter in which the Effective Time occurs or fail to receive a dividend in respect of the calendar quarter in which the Effective Time occurs. 4.10.2 Integration Planning. To the extent permitted by applicable Law, promptly following the date of this Agreement, the Parties will establish an integration planning committee (the "Integration Committee") to address and agree upon integration issues. The Chief Executive Officer of each of Carnival and P&O Princess shall determine which of their respective officers shall serve on the Integration Committee and such Committee shall be comprised of an equal number of persons from Carnival and P&O Princess. 4.11 Carnival Offer to Exchange. Section 4.11 is subject to applicable Law. 4.11.1 Offer to Exchange. Provided that this Agreement shall not have been terminated, and subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Carnival shall commence, within the meaning of Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act, the Offer, not later than ten business days after the effective date of the Joint Registration Statement or earlier if required by the City Code. The Offer shall be subject only to the conditions (the "Offer Conditions") set forth in Annex 1 hereto (including, without limitation, the occurrence of the Closing), of which conditions 4 and 5 may be waived in whole or in part by Carnival in its sole discretion. The P&O Princess EGM Circular shall state that P&O Princess shareholders may (i) vote to approve the DLC Transactions; and/or (ii) accept the Offer, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein and in the Offer Documents. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Offer and this Agreement (including, without limitation, Section 4.11.4), Carnival shall acquire all P&O Princess Ordinary Shares validly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to the Offer in compliance with the obligations respecting prompt payment pursuant to Rule 14e-1(c) under the Exchange Act and Rule 31.8 of the City Code. 4.11.2 Modification of the Offer, Fractional Shares. Subject to the City Code, Carnival expressly reserves the right to modify the terms of the Offer, except that, without the prior written consent of P&O Princess, Carnival shall not (i) decrease the Offer Exchange Ratio, (ii) impose any conditions to the Offer in addition to the Offer Conditions or modify the Offer Conditions (other than to waive any Offer Conditions to the extent permitted by this Agreement), (iii) except as provided in Section 4.11.3, extend the Offer, (iv) change the form of consideration payable in the Offer or (v) make any other change or modification in any of the terms of the Offer in any manner that is adverse to the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, no certificates representing fractional shares of Carnival Common Stock shall be issued in connection with the exchange of Carnival Common Stock for P&O Princess Ordinary Shares upon consummation of the Offer, and in lieu thereof each tendering shareholder who would otherwise be entitled to a fractional share of Carnival Common Stock in the Offer will be paid an amount in cash equal to either: (i) -31-
the product obtained by multiplying (A) the fractional share interest to which such holder would otherwise be entitled by (B) the closing price of the Carnival Common Stock on the NYSE (as reported in The Wall Street Journal or, if not reported therein, any other authoritative source) on the date the Offer becomes unconditional; or (ii) the pro rata entitlement of such member to the net proceeds of the sale of the aggregate fractional entitlements to Carnival Common Stock which shall be sold in the market at the best price reasonably obtainable by Carnival; provided always that Carnival shall be able to choose whether to apply the procedure referred to in (i) or (ii) above, shall not be obliged to give any reasons for such choice and such choice shall be conclusive and binding on all persons concerned and shall not be open to challenge on any grounds whatsoever. 4.11.3 Expiration and Extension of the Offer Acceptance Period. The period for acceptance of the Offer shall initially expire at 5:00 p.m., London time, on the date of the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting unless it is extended by Carnival with the consent of the Takeover Panel. 4.11.4 Acceptances by Carnival. The terms of the Offer shall provide that if the number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares as to which the Offer is accepted represents more than 20% of the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, only that number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares representing 20% of the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares shall be acquired by Carnival, and acceptances shall be scaled back in the manner prescribed by Rule 36.7 of the City Code. 4.11.5 Schedule TO. As promptly as practicable after the date hereof, Carnival shall file with the SEC a Schedule TO. 4.11.6 P&O Princess Shareholder Information. In connection with the Offer, P&O Princess shall cause its registrar to furnish Carnival promptly with mailing labels containing the names and addresses of the record holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares as of a recent date and of those persons becoming record holders subsequent to such date, together with copies of all lists of shareholders, security position listings and computer files and all other information in P&O Princess's possession or control regarding the beneficial owners of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and any securities convertible into P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, and shall furnish to Carnival such information and assistance (including updated lists of shareholders, security position listings and computer files) as Carnival may reasonably request in communicating the Offer to P&O Princess's shareholders. P&O Princess shall cooperate with Carnival to communicate the Offer to the holders of the P&O Princess ADSs. Subject to the requirements of applicable Law, and except for such steps as are necessary to disseminate the Offer Documents, Carnival and its affiliates, associates and agents shall hold in confidence the information contained in any such labels, listings and files, will use such information only in connection with the Offer and, if this Agreement shall be terminated, will promptly, upon request, deliver, and will use reasonable efforts to cause its affiliates, associates and agents to deliver, to P&O Princess all copies of such information then in their possession or control. -32-
4.11.7 Schedule 14D-9. In accordance with the Exchange Act, P&O Princess shall file with the SEC a Statement on Schedule 14D-9 with respect to the Offer (such document, as amended from time to time, the "Schedule 14D-9"). 4.11.8 Termination of the Offer. The Offer may be terminated by Carnival if, at the expiration date of the Offer, any of the Offer Conditions has not been met. 4.11.9 Adjustment of the Offer Exchange Ratio. Subject to the City Code, in the event that, other than pursuant to the Transactions, Carnival changes or establishes a record date for changing the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock issued and outstanding as a result of a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, subdivision, reclassification, combination or similar transaction with respect to the outstanding shares of Carnival Common Stock and the record date therefor shall be prior to the Effective Time, the Offer Exchange Ratio, and any other calculations based on or relating to the shares of Carnival Common Stock shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect such stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, subdivision, reclassification, combination or similar transaction. In the event that other than pursuant to the Transactions, P&O Princess changes or establishes a record date for changing the number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares issued and outstanding as a result of a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, subdivision, reclassification, combination or similar transaction with respect to the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the record date therefor shall be prior to the completion of the Offer, the Offer Exchange Ratio, and any other calculations based on or relating to the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect such stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, subdivision, reclassification, combination or similar transaction. ARTICLE V Conditions to the Closing 5.1 Conditions to Each Party's Obligation to Effect the Closing. The respective obligations of P&O Princess and Carnival to effect the Closing and the DLC Transactions are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the following conditions: 5.1.1 Shareholder Approvals. This Agreement and the DLC Transactions (including the Carnival Amendments) shall have been duly approved by holders of Carnival Common Stock constituting the Carnival Requisite Vote and this Agreement, and the DLC Transactions (including the P&O Princess Amendments) shall have been duly approved by the shareholders of P&O Princess constituting the P&O Princess Requisite Vote. 5.1.2 Regulatory Consents. All Carnival Required Consents and P&O Princess Required Consents from or with any Governmental Entity (collectively, "Governmental Consents") in connection with the consummation of the DLC Transactions, other than those Governmental Consents described in Section 5.1.8 below, -33-
which are subject to satisfaction or waiver in accordance with such section, shall have been made or obtained, and such Governmental Consents shall not contain any terms or impose any condition or restriction relating or applying to, or requiring changes in or limitations on, (i) the operation of any asset or businesses of Carnival, P&O Princess or any of their respective Subsidiaries which term, condition or restriction, individually or in the aggregate, would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on P&O Princess or Carnival after the Effective Time (it being understood that, for this purpose, materiality shall be considered with reference to the total equity market value of P&O Princess and Carnival as a unified commercial enterprise), or (ii) the P&O Princess Amended Memorandum, the P&O Princess Amended Articles, the Carnival Amended Articles, the Carnival Amended By-Laws, the Equalization and Governance Agreement, the ability to vote the P&O Princess Special Share or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or the ability to vote the Carnival Special Share or Carnival Common Stock (other than, in each case, terms, conditions or restrictions that would not materially frustrate the express intent and purposes of this Agreement or the Equalization and Governance Agreement). 5.1.3 Laws and Orders. No Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction shall have enacted, issued, promulgated, enforced or entered any Law (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that is in effect and restrains, enjoins or otherwise prohibits the consummation or performance of, or materially adversely affects, the DLC Transactions (collectively, an "Order"), and no Governmental Entity shall have instituted or threatened any proceeding challenging the DLC Transactions or seeking any such Order or taken any action or decision to revoke or materially amend any consent, clearance or approval of the combination of P&O Princess and Carnival. 5.1.4 Carnival Amendments and P&O Princess Amendments. The Carnival Amended Articles shall have been filed with the Companies Registry of the Republic of Panama and the Carnival Amended Articles and Carnival Amended By-laws shall have become effective and the P&O Princess Amended Memorandum and the P&O Princess Amended Articles shall have become effective. 5.1.5 Approval of P&O Princess EGM Circular. The UKLA shall have approved the P&O Princess EGM Circular. 5.1.6 Offer. The Offer shall have become unconditional (except for the condition regarding the completion of the DLC Transactions). 5.1.7 Registration Statements. The Registration Statements shall have been declared effective by the SEC and shall be effective and not the subject of a stop order or other proceeding by the SEC to suspend their effectiveness. 5.1.8 European Commission. 5.1.8.1 Insofar as the DLC Transactions constitute a concentration which is required to be notified to the European Commission pursuant to Article 4(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No. 4064/89 (as amended) (the "Merger Regulation"), and subject to Clause 5.1.8.2, either, (i) the European Commission having -34-
adopted in relation to the DLC Transactions a decision under either Article 6(1)(a), Article 6(1)(b) or Article 8(2) of the Merger Regulation, or (ii) the DLC Transactions shall have been deemed compatible with the common market in accordance with Article 10(6) of the Merger Regulation. 5.1.8.2 In the event that a decision (or decisions) has been taken under Article 9(3) of the Merger Regulation (or is deemed to have been taken pursuant to Article 9(5) of the Merger Regulation) or Article 6(1) of Protocol 24 to the Agreement to establish the European Economic Area (the "EEA Agreement") to refer the whole or part of the DLC Transactions to the competent authorities of one or more European Union or relevant EFTA state, decisions having been taken by all such competent authorities to permit the DLC Transactions; provided that if any such competent authority should have failed to publish its report or the announcement of the findings of its examination, or to complete its review, of the DLC Transactions within four months of the last date on which the European Commission could have issued a decision in relation to the DLC Transactions pursuant to Article 6 of the Merger Regulation, this Condition to Closing shall be deemed to have been satisfied in respect of that competent authority. 5.1.9 NYSE Listing. The NYSE shall have approved the listing on the NYSE of either the SVT Shares or the P&O Princess Special Share, subject in either case only to official notice of issuance. 5.2 Conditions to Obligations of P&O Princess to Effect the Closing. The obligation of P&O Princess to effect the Closing and the DLC Transactions is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by P&O Princess prior to the Effective Time of the following conditions: 5.2.1 Representations and Warranties of Carnival. The representations and warranties of Carnival set forth in this Agreement (i) to the extent qualified by Material Adverse Effect or any other materiality qualification shall be true and correct and (ii) to the extent not qualified by Material Adverse Effect or any other materiality qualification shall be true and correct (provided that this clause (ii) shall be deemed satisfied so long as any failures of such representations and warranties to be true and correct, taken together, do not have a Material Adverse Effect on Carnival) as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent any such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an earlier date), and P&O Princess shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Carnival by a Carnival Officer to such effect. 5.2.2 Performance of Obligations of Carnival. Carnival shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and P&O Princess shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of Carnival by a Carnival Officer to such effect. 5.2.3 Consents Under Agreements. Carnival shall have obtained the consent or approval of each Person whose consent or approval shall be required in -35-
order to consummate the DLC Transactions under any Contract to which Carnival or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of its or their assets are bound, except those the failure of which to obtain such consent or approval, individually or in the aggregate, is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on Carnival or prevent the consummation of, or materially adversely affect, the DLC Transactions by Carnival. 5.2.4 Carnival Special Share. Carnival shall have issued the Carnival Special Share to Carnival SVC. 5.2.5 Other DLC Documents. Each DLC Document that is required to be executed and delivered by the parties thereto shall have been so executed and delivered in the Agreed Form by all such parties other than P&O Princess and its Subsidiaries. 5.3 Conditions to Obligations of Carnival. The obligation of Carnival to effect the Closing and the DLC Transactions contemplated by this Agreement is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Carnival prior to the Effective Time of the following conditions: 5.3.1 Representations and Warranties of P&O Princess. The representations and warranties of P&O Princess set forth in this Agreement (i) to the extent qualified by Material Adverse Effect or any other materiality qualification shall be true and correct; and (ii) to the extent not qualified by Material Adverse Effect or any other materiality qualification shall be true and correct (provided that this clause (ii) shall be deemed satisfied so long as any failures of such representations and warranties to be true and correct, taken together, do not have a Material Adverse Effect on P&O Princess) as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent any such representation and warranty expressly speaks as of an earlier date), and Carnival shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of P&O Princess by a P&O Princess Officer to such effect. 5.3.2 Performance of Obligations of P&O Princess. P&O Princess shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and Carnival shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of P&O Princess by a P&O Princess Officer to such effect. 5.3.3 Consents Under Agreements. P&O Princess shall have obtained the consent or approval of each Person whose consent or approval shall be required in order to consummate the DLC Transactions under any Contract to which P&O Princess or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of its or their assets are bound, except those the failure of which to obtain such consent or approval, individually or in the aggregate, is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on P&O Princess or prevent the consummation of, or materially adversely affect, the DLC Transactions by P&O Princess. -36-
5.3.4 P&O Princess Special Share. P&O Princess shall have issued the P&O Princess Special Share to Carnival. 5.3.5 Other DLC Documents. Each DLC Document that is required to be executed and delivered by the parties thereto shall have been so executed and delivered in the Agreed Form by all such parties other than Carnival and its Subsidiaries. 5.3.6 Termination of Joint Venture Agreement. P&O Princess shall have given a termination notice under Section 9.01(c) of the Joint Venture Agreement or the Joint Venture Agreement shall have been terminated without any cost to P&O Princess (excluding any existing termination amount set forth in the Implementation Agreement between P&O Princess and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., dated as of November 19, 2001) under Section 9.01(a) thereof. ARTICLE VI Termination 6.1 Termination by Mutual Consent. This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after the approvals by shareholders of Carnival and P&O Princess referred to in paragraph 5.1.1, by mutual written consent of Carnival and P&O Princess by action of their respective boards of directors. 6.2 Termination by Either P&O Princess or Carnival. This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time by action of the board of directors of either P&O Princess or Carnival if (i) the Closing and the Transactions shall not have been consummated by September 30, 2003, whether such date is before or after the date of approval by the shareholders of Carnival or P&O Princess (the "Termination Date"), (ii) any Order (which the terminating Party shall have used its reasonable best efforts to resist, resolve or lift, as applicable, in accordance with Section 4.5) permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of, or materially adversely affecting, the Transactions shall have become final and non-appealable, whether before or after the approval by the shareholders of Carnival or P&O Princess, (iii) the Carnival Requisite Vote shall not have been obtained at the duly held Carnival Shareholders Meeting, including any adjournments or postponements thereof or, in any event by the date that is five Business Days prior to the Termination Date, or (iv) the P&O Princess Requisite Vote shall not have been obtained at the duly held P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting, including any adjournments or postponements thereof or, in any event by the date that is five Business Days prior to the Termination Date; provided that the right to terminate this Agreement shall not be available to a Party that has breached in any material respect its obligations under this Agreement in any manner that shall have proximately contributed to the failure of the Transactions to be consummated. -37-
6.3 Termination by Carnival. This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after the approval by shareholders of Carnival referred to in paragraph 5.1.1, by action of the board of directors of Carnival, if (i) the board of directors of P&O Princess shall have withdrawn or adversely modified its approval or recommendation to shareholders of this Agreement and the Transactions or shall have resolved to take any such action or failed to reconfirm such approval or recommendation within five Business Days after a written request by Carnival to do so; or (ii) P&O Princess or its board of directors shall take any of the actions described in clause (ii) of the proviso to Section 4.2.1; or (iii) there shall be a breach by P&O Princess of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement, or any event or circumstance shall occur as a result of which any such representation and warranty shall not be true as of, and as if made on, any date after the date hereof, which, in each case, would result in a failure of a condition set forth in paragraph 5.3.1 or 5.3.2 and cannot be or is not cured prior to the Termination Date; or (iv) a third party announces a firm intention (whether or not subject to a pre-condition) to make an offer or Acquisition Proposal for P&O Princess (including an offer to form a dual-listed company) which offer is (x) either subject to the City Code or is otherwise legally binding and (y) in Carnival's reasonable opinion, acting in good faith and after consultation with its financial advisers, the nature of such advice to be communicated to P&O Princess, is likely to be more attractive to P&O Princess Shareholders than the DLC Transactions. 6.4 Termination by P&O Princess. This Agreement may be terminated and the Transactions may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after the approval by the shareholders of P&O Princess referred to in paragraph 5.1.1, by action of the board of directors of P&O Princess, if (i) the board of directors of Carnival shall have withdrawn or adversely modified its approval or recommendation to shareholders of this Agreement and the Transactions, or shall have resolved to take any such action or failed to reconfirm such approval or recommendation within five Business Days after a written request by P&O Princess to do so; or (ii) Carnival or its board of directors shall take any of the actions described in clause (ii) of the proviso to Section 4.2.1; or (iii) there shall be a breach by Carnival of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement, or any event or circumstance shall occur as a result of which any such representation and warranty shall not be true as of, and as if made on, any date after the date hereof, which, in each case, would result in a failure of a condition set forth in paragraph 5.2.1 or 5.2.2 and cannot be or is not cured prior to the Termination Date. 6.5 Effect of Termination and Abandonment. 6.5.1 Effect of Termination. In the event of termination of this Agreement and the abandonment of the Transactions pursuant to this Article VI, this Agreement (other than as set forth in Section 7.1) shall become void and of no effect with no liability on the part of either Party (or of any of its Representatives); provided, however, that, subject to Section 7.1, no such termination shall relieve either Party of any liability for damages resulting from any breach of this Agreement or from any obligation -38-
to pay, if applicable, the Carnival Termination Amount (as defined below) or the P&O Princess Termination Amount (as defined below), as the case may be, pursuant to Section 6.5.2 or 6.5.3. 6.5.2 Carnival Break Fee. In the event that (i) this Agreement is terminated by either Carnival or P&O Princess pursuant to Section 6.2(iii) and at the time of the Carnival Shareholders Meeting an Acquisition Proposal exists with respect to Carnival; or (ii) this Agreement is terminated by P&O Princess pursuant to Section 6.4(i), 6.4(ii) or 6.4(iii) (solely with respect to a breach of Section 4.2), then if any Acquisition Proposal involving Carnival is implemented or completed on or before the day which is 18 months after the date of this Agreement, Carnival shall promptly, but in no event later than two days after the date of such implementation or completion, pay to P&O Princess a termination payment equal to the Carnival Termination Amount, which amount shall be exclusive of any expenses to be paid pursuant to Section 4.9, payable by wire transfer of same day funds. The term "Carnival Termination Amount" shall mean $49.4 million (representing 1 per cent of the market capitalisation of P&O Princess on January 7, 2003). Carnival acknowledges that the agreements contained in this Section 6.5.2 are an integral part of the Transactions, and that, without these agreements, P&O Princess would not enter into this Agreement; accordingly, if Carnival fails promptly to pay any amount due pursuant to this Section 6.5.2, and, in order to obtain such payment, P&O Princess commences a suit which results in a judgment against Carnival for the payment set forth in this Section 6.5.2, Carnival shall pay to P&O Princess its costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) in connection with such suit, together with interest on the Carnival Termination Amount from each date for payment until the date of such payment at the prime rate of Citibank N.A. in effect on the date such payment was required to be made plus 2 percent. 6.5.3 P&O Princess Break Fee. In the event that (i) this Agreement is terminated by either Carnival or P&O Princess pursuant to Section 6.2(iv) and at the time of the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting an Acquisition Proposal exists with respect to P&O Princess; or (ii) this Agreement is terminated by Carnival pursuant to Section 6.3(i), 6.3(ii) or 6.3(iii) (solely with respect to a breach of Section 4.2 then if any Acquisition Proposal involving P&O Princess is implemented or completed on or before the day which is 18 months after the date of this Agreement, P&O Princess shall promptly, but in no event later than two days after the date of such implementation or completion, pay to Carnival a termination payment equal to the P&O Princess Termination Amount, which amount shall be exclusive of any expenses to be paid pursuant to Section 4.9, payable by wire transfer of same day funds. The term "P&O Princess Termination Amount" shall mean $49.4 million (representing 1 per cent. of the market capitalisation of P&O Princess on January 7, 2003). P&O Princess acknowledges that the agreements contained in this Section 6.5.3 are an integral part of the Transactions, and that, without these agreements, Carnival would not enter into this Agreement; accordingly, if P&O Princess fails promptly to pay any amount due pursuant to this Section 6.5.3, and, in order to obtain such payment, Carnival commences a suit which results in a judgment against P&O Princess for the payment set forth in this Section 6.5.3, P&O Princess shall pay to Carnival its costs and expenses (including -39-
attorneys' fees) in connection with such suit, together with interest on the P&O Princess Termination Amount from each date for payment until the date of such payment at the prime rate of Citibank N.A. in effect on the date such payment was required to be made plus 2 percent. ARTICLE VII Miscellaneous and General 7.1 Survival. This Article VII and the agreements of Carnival and P&O Princess contained in Sections 4.8 (Benefits and Other Matters) and 4.9 (Expenses) shall survive the Effective Time. This Article VII (other than Section 7.2 (Modification or Amendment), Section 7.3 (Waiver of Conditions) and Section 7.11 (Assignment)), the representations and warranties contained in Section 3.1.3 (Corporate Authority; Approval and Fairness), the agreements of Carnival and P&O Princess contained in Section 4.9 (Expenses), Section 6.5 (Effect of Termination and Abandonment) and the last sentence of Section 4.6 (Access) and Section 4.11.7 and 4.11.8 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. All other representations, warranties, agreements and covenants in this Agreement shall not survive the Effective Time or the termination of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of this Agreement shall relieve any Party from liability for any breach by it of its covenants and agreements in this Agreement prior to such termination; provided that the sole remedy of any Party for any breach by the other Party of any representation or warranty in this Agreement other than those in Section 3.1.3 (Corporate Authority; Approval; and Fairness) shall be the right (if any) to terminate this Agreement pursuant to clause (iii) of Section 6.3 or Section 6.4, as applicable. 7.2 Modification or Amendment. This Agreement may be modified or amended by agreement of the Parties, by action taken or authorized by their respective boards of directors, at any time prior to the Effective Time; provided, however, that, after approval by shareholders of the matters presented at the Carnival Shareholders Meeting or the P&O Princess Shareholders Meeting, no modification or amendment shall be made which under applicable Law requires further approval by such shareholders without such further approval. This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an instrument in writing executed and delivered by duly authorized officers of each of the Parties. 7.3 Waiver of Conditions. Any provision of this Agreement may be waived prior to the Effective Time if, and only if, such waiver is in writing and signed by the Party against whom the waiver is to be effective. For the purposes of Article V, P&O Princess may waive any condition contained in Section 5.2 and Carnival may waive any condition contained in Section 5.3. 7.4 Failure or Indulgence Not Waiver; Remedies Cumulative. No failure or delay by any Party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any -40-
other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. Except as otherwise herein provided, the rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Law. 7.5 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement. 7.6 GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. 7.6.1 Governing Law And Venue. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE MADE IN, AND IN ALL RESPECTS SHALL BE INTERPRETED, CONSTRUED AND GOVERNED BY AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS TO BE PERFORMED WHOLLY IN SUCH STATE. The Parties hereby irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts of the United States of America located in the Borough of Manhattan, New York State solely (or, if such jurisdiction is refused by such Federal courts, the Supreme Court of the State of New York, located in the Borough of Manhattan) in respect of the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and in respect of the Transactions and thereby waive, and agree not to assert, as a defense in any action, suit or proceeding for the interpretation or enforcement hereof, that it is not subject thereto or that such action, suit or proceeding may not be brought or is not maintainable in said courts or that the venue thereof may not be appropriate or that this Agreement may not be enforced in or by such courts, and the Parties irrevocably agree that all claims with respect to such action or proceeding shall be heard and determined in such a Federal court. The Parties hereby consent to and grant any such court jurisdiction over the person of such Parties and over the subject matter of such dispute and agree that mailing of process or other papers in connection with any such action or proceeding in the manner provided in Section 7.7 (Notices), or in such other manner as may be permitted by Law, shall be valid and sufficient service thereof. 7.6.2 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE "TRANSACTIONS." EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (I) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (II) EACH SUCH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS -41-
CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (III) EACH SUCH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (IV) EACH SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 7.6. 7.7 Notices. Notices, requests, instructions or other documents to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given, (i) when sent if sent by facsimile, provided that the facsimile is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof or (ii) when delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient or sent by overnight delivery via a national courier service, and in each case, addressed to a Party at the following address for such Party: if to Carnival: Carnival Corporation 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue Miami, Florida 33l78-2428 Attention: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Facsimile: (305) 477-1740 with copies to Carnival Corporation 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue Miami, Florida 33178-2428 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile: (305) 477-1740 and James M. Dubin, Esq. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10019-6064 Facsimile: (212) 757-3990 and Anthony Macaulay Herbert Smith Exchange Square Primrose Street London EC2A 2HS Facsimile: (44) 20-7374 0888 -42-
if to P&O Princess: P&O Princess Cruises plc 77 New Oxford Street London WC1A 1PP Attention: Chief Executive Officer Facsimile: (44) 20-7805-1240 with copies to P&O Princess Cruises plc 77 New Oxford Street London WC1A 1PP Attention: General Counsel Facsimile: (44) 20-7805-1240 Duncan C. McCurrach, Esq. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 125 Broad Street New York, New York 10004 Facsimile: (212) 558-3588 and Mark Rawlinson Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Facsimile: (44) 20-7832-7001 or to such other Persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the Party to receive such notice as provided above. 7.8 Entire Agreement. This Agreement (including the exhibits, annexes and schedules hereto), the Carnival Disclosure Letter, the P&O Princess Disclosure Letter, the Stockholder Voting Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement constitute the entire agreement, and supersede all other prior agreements, understandings, representations and warranties both written and oral, between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. References herein to this Agreement shall for all purposes be deemed to include references to the Carnival Disclosure Letter and the P&O Princess Disclosure Letter. Except as set forth in Section 4.8.1, this Agreement is not intended to confer upon any Person other than the Parties any rights or remedies hereunder except the individuals who were directors of either Party on or prior to the Effective Time shall be deemed third party beneficiaries with respect to Section 4.8, as applicable. No employee or former employee of Carnival or P&O Princess who is not a director of Carnival or P&O Princess shall be deemed a third party beneficiary with respect to any provision of this Agreement. EACH PARTY HERETO AGREES THAT, EXCEPT FOR THE -43-
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER AGREEMENT CONTEMPLATED HEREBY, NEITHER CARNIVAL NOR P&O PRINCESS MAKES ANY OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, AND EACH HEREBY DISCLAIMS ANY OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES MADE BY ITSELF OR ANY OF ITS OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, FINANCIAL AND LEGAL ADVISORS OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVES WITH RESPECT TO THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE "TRANSACTIONS", NOTWITHSTANDING THE DELIVERY OR DISCLOSURE TO THE OTHER OR THE OTHER'S REPRESENTATIVES OF ANY DOCUMENTATION OR OTHER INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOREGOING. 7.9 Severability. The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any Person or any circumstance, is invalid or unenforceable, (a) a suitable and equitable provision shall be substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be valid and enforceable, the intent and purpose of such invalid or unenforceable provision unless the substitution of such provision would materially frustrate the express intent and purposes of this Agreement or the Equalization and Governance Agreement and (b) the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provision to other Persons or circumstances shall not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or unenforceability affect the validity or enforceability of such provision, or the application thereof, in any other jurisdiction. 7.10 Interpretation. The table of contents and headings herein are for convenience of reference only, do not constitute part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions hereof. Where a reference in this Agreement is made to a Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to a Section of or Exhibit to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." As used herein with respect to any Party, a matter shall be deemed to be "material" only if it is material to the Party and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time, except to the extent prohibited by this Agreement. A reference to any legislation (including any listing rules of a stock exchange or voluntary codes) or to any provision of any legislation includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative provision substituted for it and all rules and regulations and statutory instruments promulgated and issued under it. Nothing in this Agreement or the DLC Documents will mean or be taken to imply that P&O Princess or Carnival have agreed to dispose of or to acquire any interest in the assets or undertakings of either of them. The parties hereto acknowledge that this Agreement (including the Exhibits and Schedules hereto) has been drafted jointly by the parties hereto and agree that this Agreement will -44-
not be construed against any party as a result of any role such party may have had in the drafting process. 7.11 Assignment. This Agreement shall not be assignable by operation of law or otherwise, and any purported assignment in violation of this provision shall be void. 7.12 No Partnership. Neither this Agreement nor the DLC Transactions are intended for any legal, tax or other purpose to (i) alter the status of P&O Princess and Carnival as separate, independent entities (taxed respectively and exclusively as a United Kingdom and a Panamanian non-resident corporation), (ii) result in any of Carnival, P&O Princess, their respective Subsidiaries, or their respective shareholders being treated as creating an entity or otherwise entering into any partnership, joint venture, association or agency relationship, or (iii) give either Party (or its respective Subsidiaries or shareholders) any legal or beneficial ownership interest in the assets or income of the other Party, and shall not be construed as having such effect. 7.13 Special Shares. The parties agree for all United States federal income tax purposes to treat both the Carnival Special Share and the P&O Princess Special Share as not constituting stock or any other equity interest in Carnival or P&O Princess or any other entity. -45-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers of Carnival and P&O Princess as of the date hereof. CARNIVAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Micky Arison ---------------------------------------------- Name: Micky Arison Title: Chairman & Chief Executive Officer P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC By: /s/ Peter G. Ratcliffe ---------------------------------------------- Name: Peter G. Ratcliffe Title: Chief Executive Officer -46-

Exhibit 99.3 AGREED FORM DATED 2003 -------------------------------------------- CARNIVAL CORPORATION and P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC -------------------------------------------- EQUALIZATION AND GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT -------------------------------------------- 1
CONTENTS
EQUALIZATION AND GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT THIS AGREEMENT is made on [.] 2003 between: (1) CARNIVAL CORPORATION, a Panamanian corporation having its principal place of business at Carnival Place, 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue, Miami, Florida, 33178 - 2428 ("Carnival"); and (2) P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales (Registered No. 4039524) having its registered office at 77 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1PP ("P&O Princess"). WHEREAS: (A) P&O Princess and Carnival entered into the Implementation Agreement, pursuant to which P&O Princess and Carnival have agreed to do certain acts and things to implement the DLC Combination and create certain rights for the Carnival Shareholders and the P&O Princess Shareholders in respect of their interests in the combined enterprise. (B) P&O Princess and Carnival wish to agree upon the terms of the ongoing relationship between them following the DLC Combination, the basic principles being that: (i) the two companies shall operate as if they were a single unified economic entity; and (ii) the Equalization Ratio shall govern the proportion in which distributions of income and capital are made to, and the relative voting rights of, the holders of Carnival Common Stock relative to the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. 1. Definitions and Interpretation 1.1 Definitions In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires: "Action" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, any action affecting the amount or nature of issued share capital of such company, including any non-cash Distribution, offer by way of rights, bonus issue, sub-division or consolidation, or buy-back; "Applicable Exchange Rate" means, in relation to any proposed Distributions by P&O Princess and Carnival in relation to which a foreign exchange rate is required, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before the Distribution Determination Date relating to such Distributions (as shown in the London Edition of the Financial Times, or such other point of reference as the parties shall agree), or such other spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate or average US dollar-sterling exchange rate as at such other date (or over such other period) before a Distribution Determination Date as the Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival shall agree, in each case rounded to five decimal places; 1
"Applicable Regulations" means: (a) any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, judgement, order, decree, licence, permit, directive or requirement of any Governmental Agency having jurisdiction over P&O Princess and/or Carnival; and (b) the rules, regulations, and guidelines of: (i) any stock exchange or other trading market on which any shares or other securities or depositary receipts representing such shares or securities of either P&O Princess or Carnival are listed, traded or quoted; and (ii) any other body with which entities with securities listed or quoted on such exchanges customarily comply, (but, if not having the force of law, only if compliance with such directives, requirements, rules, regulations or guidelines is in accordance with the general practice of persons to whom they are intended to apply) in each case for the time being in force and taking account all exemptions, waivers or variations from time to time applicable (in particular situations or generally) to P&O Princess or, as the case may be, Carnival; "Associated Tax Credit" means, in relation to any Distribution proposed to be made by either P&O Princess or Carnival, the amount of any imputed or associated Tax credit or rebate or exemption (or the value of any other similar associated Tax benefit) which would be available to a shareholder receiving or entitled to receive the Distribution, together with the amount of any credit or benefit in respect of any tax required to be deducted or withheld from the Distribution by or on behalf of the paying company; "Board" means the Board of P&O Princess or the Board of Carnival as the context may require; "Board of Carnival" means the board of directors of Carnival (or a duly appointed committee of that board) from time to time; "Board of P&O Princess" means the board of directors of P&O Princess (or a duly appointed committee of that board) from time to time; "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banking institutions in the City of New York or London are authorised or obligated by law or executive order to close in the United States or England (or on which such banking institutions are open solely for trading in euros); "Carnival Articles" means the Amended Articles of Incorporation of Carnival which will be in effect immediately following Completion, as amended from time to time; "Carnival Articles and By-laws" means the Carnival Articles and the By-laws of Carnival which will be in effect immediately following Completion, as amended from time to time; "Carnival Common Stock" means the issued and outstanding common stock, par value US$0.01 per share, of Carnival from time to time, as the same may be subdivided or consolidated from time to time and any capital stock into which such common stock may be reclassified, converted or otherwise changed; 2
"Carnival Convertible Instruments" means the $600,000,000 2% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2021; and the $1,051,175,000 Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (Zero Coupon-Senior); "Carnival Entrenched Provision" has the meaning given to it in the Carnival Articles and By-laws; "Carnival Equalization Share" means any share designated as an equalization share in Carnival from time to time by the Board of Carnival; "Carnival Equivalent Number" means the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Princess Ordinary Share. Initially, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be 0.30040 but shall be adjusted as provided in Clause 4 and the Schedule. In all cases, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be rounded to five decimal places; "Carnival Group" means Carnival and its Subsidiaries from time to time and a member of the Carnival Group means any one of them; "Carnival Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee of even date herewith between Carnival and P&O Princess whereby Carnival agrees to guarantee certain obligations of P&O Princess for the benefit of certain future creditors of P&O Princess, as amended from time to time; "Carnival SVC" means Carnival SVC Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number [.] or such other company as replaces Carnival SVC Limited pursuant to the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed; "Carnival Special Voting Share" means the special voting share of US$0.01 in Carnival; "Carnival SVC Owner" means [.] or such other entity as shall be agreed between P&O Princess and Carnival; "Class Rights Action" means any of the actions listed in Clause 6.1; "Combined Group" means the P&O Princess Group and the Carnival Group; "Combined Shareholders" means the holders of Carnival Common Stock and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares; "Completion" means the time at which the steps set out in Section 2.2 (Transaction to be Effected and Documents to be Exchanged) of the Implementation Agreement have been completed; "Current Market Price" has the meaning given to it in Paragraph 3 of the Schedule; "Dealing Day" has the meaning given to it in Paragraph 3 of the Schedule; "Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning given to that term in the Carnival Articles; "Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to that term in the P&O Princess Articles of Association; 3
"Disenfranchised Shares" means the Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares and the Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock; "Dispute" has the meaning given to it in Clause 20(A); "Distributable Reserves" means, with respect to any Distribution by Carnival or P&O Princess, the total funds available to such company which it is permitted to use to pay or make such Distribution under the Applicable Regulations relating to Carnival or P&O Princess, as the case may be; "Distribution" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, any dividend or other distribution, whether of income or capital, and in whatever form, made by such company or any of its Subsidiaries to the holders of such company's Shares, including for the purposes of this definition Disenfranchised Shares, by way of pro rata entitlement, excluding any Liquidation Distribution or buy-back or repurchase or cancellation of Shares; "Distribution Determination Date" means, with respect to any parallel Distributions to be made by Carnival and P&O Princess, the date on which the Board of P&O Princess and the Board of Carnival resolve to pay or make such parallel Distributions (or, if they resolve on different dates to pay or make such parallel Distributions, the later of those dates); "DLC Combination" means the combination of Carnival and P&O Princess by means of a dual listed company structure effected pursuant to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the SVE Special Voting Deed, the Carnival Articles and By-laws, the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles, the Carnival Guarantee and the P&O Princess Guarantee; "DLC Structure" means the structure created by the DLC Combination; "DLC Transactions" has the meaning given to that term in the Implementation Agreement; "Equalization Distribution Amount" means, in relation to either P&O Princess or Carnival, the amount of any Distribution proposed to be paid or made by such company at any particular time on its Shares, before deduction of any amount in respect of Tax required to be deducted or withheld from such Distribution by or on behalf of such company and excluding the amount of any Associated Tax Credit, all such amounts being expressed in the currency of declaration and on a per share basis; "Equalization Fraction" means, as of any time, the Equalization Ratio as of such time expressed as a fraction, where the numerator is one and the denominator is the Carnival Equivalent Number at such time; "Equalization Ratio" means, at any time, the ratio of (i) one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to (ii) the Carnival Equivalent Number at such time; "Equalization Share" means, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Equalization Share and, in relation to Carnival, the Carnival Equalization Share; "equity equivalents" has the meaning given in Clause 4.4(A); "Equivalent Distribution" has the meaning given in Clause 3.1; 4
"Equivalent Resolution" means a resolution of either P&O Princess or Carnival that is equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company; "Fair Market Value" has the meaning given to it in Paragraph 3 of the Schedule; "Final Award" has the meaning given to it in Clause 20(D); "Financial Period" means a financial year of either P&O Princess or Carnival or any other period for which both of their accounts may by mutual agreement be made up; "Governmental Agency" means a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or any governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental entity and shall include any relevant competition authorities, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, the European Commission, the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing Authority, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE; "Group" means, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Group and, in relation to Carnival, the Carnival Group as the context requires; "Guarantee" means each of the P&O Princess Guarantee and the Carnival Guarantee; "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement headed "Offer and Implementation Agreement" entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival dated as of 8 January 2003; "Joint Electorate Action" has the meaning given in Clause 5.1; "Joint Electorate Procedure" means the procedures referred to in Clause 5.2; "Liquidation" means, with respect to either Carnival or P&O Princess, any liquidation, winding up, receivership, dissolution, insolvency or equivalent or analogous proceedings pursuant to which the assets of such company will be liquidated and distributed to creditors and other holders of provable claims against such company; "Liquidation Distribution" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, any dividend or other distribution per Share, whether of income or capital, and in whatever form, made or to be made by such company or any of its Subsidiaries to the holders of such company's Shares by way of pro rata entitlement in connection with the Liquidation of such company; "Liquidation Exchange Rate" means, as at any date, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before such date (as shown in the London Edition of the Financial Times), or such other US dollar-sterling exchange rate as the Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival or the Board of P&O Princess and liquidators of Carnival or the Board of Carnival and the liquidators of P&O Princess or the liquidators of both P&O Princess and Carnival, as the case may be, may determine, in each case rounded to five decimal places; "London Stock Exchange" means the London Stock Exchange plc; "Majority Resolution" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, a resolution duly approved at a meeting of the shareholders of such company by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes Voted on such resolution by all shareholders of such 5
company entitled to vote thereon (including, where appropriate, the holder of the Special Voting Share of such company) who are present in person or by proxy at such meeting; "Matching Action" has the meaning given in Clause 4.5; "Net Assets" has the meaning given in Clause 10.2; "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; "P&O Princess Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of P&O Princess which will be in effect immediately following Completion, as amended from time to time; "P&O Princess Entrenched Provision" has the meaning given to it in the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles; "P&O Princess Equalization Share" means the equalization share of(pound)50,000 in the capital of P&O Princess; "P&O Princess ADS" means an American Depositary Share of P&O Princess, each of which currently represents four P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, which is listed on NYSE; "P&O Princess Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee of even date herewith between P&O Princess and Carnival whereby P&O Princess agrees to guarantee certain obligations of Carnival for the benefit of certain future creditors of Carnival, as amended from time to time; "P&O Princess Group" means P&O Princess and its Subsidiaries from time to time and a member of the P&O Princess Group means any one of them; "P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of P&O Princess which will be in effect immediately following Completion, as amended from time to time; "P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" means the issued ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in P&O Princess from time to time (including the underlying ordinary shares to each P&O Princess ADS), as the same may be subdivided or consolidated from time to time and any ordinary shares into which such class of shares may be reclassified, converted or otherwise changed; "P&O Princess SVT" means P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of __________ or such other entity as replaces it pursuant to the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed; "P&O Princess Special Voting Share" means the special voting share of (pound)1 in P&O Princess; "P&O Princess Trustee" means [.], as trustee of P&O Princess SVT pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement (or any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.08 thereof); "P&O Princess SVT Agreement" means the Voting Trust Agreement establishing P&O Princess SVT between P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival, of even date herewith as amended from time to time; 6
"Parallel Shareholder Meeting" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, any meeting of the shareholders of that company which is: (a) nearest in time to, or is actually contemporaneous with, the meeting of the shareholders of the other company and at which some or all of the same resolutions or some or all the Equivalent Resolutions are to be considered; (b) designated by the Board of Carnival or the Board of P&O Princess, as the case may be, as the parallel meeting of a particular meeting of shareholders of the other company; "Primary Action" has the meaning given in Clause 4.5; "Relevant Company" has the meaning given in Paragraph 1.1 of the Schedule; "Repurchase" means: (a) a repurchase of shares in the capital of P&O Princess having voting rights by any member of the P&O Princess Group or a reduction by P&O Princess of its issued Ordinary share capital; (b) a repurchase of Carnival Common Stock by any member of the Carnival Group; or (c) a purchase of shares in the capital of P&O Princess having voting rights by any member of the Carnival Group; or (d) a purchase of Carnival Common Stock by any member of the P&O Princess Group; provided that the purchase of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares in the Offer (as defined in the Implementation Agreement) shall not be deemed to be a Repurchase. "Required Majority" has the meaning given in Clause 6.2; "Shares" means, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares which, for the avoidance of doubt shall not include Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares (except where stated to the contrary) and, in relation to Carnival, the Carnival Common Stock which, for the avoidance of doubt shall not include Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock (except where stated to the contrary); "Special Voting Share" means, in relation to Carnival, the Carnival Special Voting Share and, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share; "sterling" means the lawful currency from time to time of the United Kingdom; "Subsidiary" means with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such party otherwise has the power to direct; 7
"Supermajority Resolution" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, a resolution required by Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-laws or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes Voted than required under a Majority Resolution, or where the percentage of votes Voted in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by a Majority Resolution; "SVE Special Voting Deed" means the agreement of even date herewith entered into among Carnival SVC, the Carnival SVC Owner, the P&O Princess Trustee, P&O Princess and Carnival relating, inter alia, to how each Special Voting Share is to be voted, as amended from time to time; "Tax" means any taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings or duties levied by any authority (including stamp and transaction duties) (together with any related interest, penalties, fines and expenses in connection with them); "Tax Benefit" means any credit, rebate, exemption or benefit in respect of Tax available to any person; "Tribunal" has the meaning given to it in Clause 20(B); "UK Listing Authority" means the Financial Services Authority in its capacity as competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; "US Securities Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and "Voted" means the number of votes recorded in favour of and against a particular resolution at a shareholders' meeting of either P&O Princess or Carnival by holders of Shares, holders of any other class of shares entitled to vote and the holder of the relevant Special Voting Share PROVIDED THAT votes recorded as abstentions by holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (or any other class of shares entitled to vote) shall not be counted as having been Voted for these purposes. 1.2 Interpretation Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation. The following rules of interpretation apply unless the context requires otherwise. (A) The singular includes the plural and conversely. (B) One gender includes all genders. (C) Where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning. (D) A reference to a person includes a body corporate, an unincorporated body or other entity and conversely. (E) A reference to a Clause or a Schedule is to a Clause of or a Schedule to this Agreement, and the Schedule forms part of this Agreement. 8
(F) A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time, except to the extent prohibited by this Agreement. (G) A reference to any legislation (including any listing rules of a stock exchange or voluntary codes) or to any provision of any legislation includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative provision substituted for it and all regulations and statutory instruments issued under it. (H) A reference to "writing" includes a facsimile transmission and any means of reproducing words in a tangible and permanently visible form. (I) Mentioning anything after "include", "includes", or "including" does not limit what else might be included. Where particular words are following by general words, the general words are not limited by the particular. (J) Reference to a body, other than a party to this Agreement (including any Governmental Agency) , whether statutory or not: (i) which ceases to exist; or (ii) whose powers or functions are transferred to another body, is a reference to the body which replaces it or which substantially succeeds to its powers or functions. (K) All references to "time" are to the local time in the place where the relevant obligation is to be performed (or right exercised). (L) References in this Agreement to "US$" and "cents" are to United States dollars and cents and to "(pound)" and "p" are to pounds sterling and to pence sterling. (M) References to an offer by way of rights by Carnival or P&O Princess are to any type of offer (whether renounceable or non-renounceable) made by such company to the holders of its Shares in proportion to their holdings at the relevant time, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the relevant Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties with making the offer under any Applicable Regulations of or in any jurisdiction. (N) References to "party" or "parties" in this Agreement are to the parties to this Agreement. 2. Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival 2.1 Board Principles P&O Princess and Carnival agree that the following principles are essential to the implementation, management and operation of the DLC Structure: (A) P&O Princess and Carnival must operate as if they were a single unified economic entity, through boards of directors which comprise exactly the same individuals and a unified senior executive management, and the Combined 9
Shareholders shall be treated as if they were shareholders of a combined enterprise; and (B) the directors of P&O Princess and Carnival shall, in addition to their duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the other company and both the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the holders of Carnival Common Stock as if the two companies were a single unified legal entity. 2.2 Board Composition Each of Carnival and P&O Princess will therefore do (and will, to the extent it is able, procure that each member of its Group will do) all acts and things necessary and within their respective powers to ensure that at all times the Board of P&O Princess and the Board of Carnival comprise exactly the same individuals. 2.3 Indemnification of Directors Each of Carnival and P&O Princess will take all actions necessary or desirable to ensure that the directors of each company shall be indemnified by such company and the other company for any acts or omissions by such directors in their capacity as a director of such company, to the maximum permitted by Applicable Regulations PROVIDED THAT nothing in this paragraph shall affect the obligations provided for in Section 4.8.1 (Director and Officer Liability) of the Implementation Agreement. 3. Equalization of Distributions 3.1 Equalization Principle 3.1.1 Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, neither Carnival nor P&O Princess shall pay or make any Distribution in cash unless the other company also pays or makes a Distribution in cash at or about the same time and the ratio of the Equalization Distribution Amount so paid or made by Carnival to the Equalization Distribution Amount so paid or made by P&O Princess (converted, if applicable, at the Applicable Exchange Rate for such Distributions and rounded to five decimal places) equals the Equalization Ratio in effect on the Distribution Determination Date for such Distributions (each, an "Equivalent Distribution") 3.1.2 Subject to Clause 3.1.3, neither Carnival nor P&O Princess shall declare or otherwise become obligated to pay or make a Distribution in cash unless (i) on the date on which such declaration is made or such obligation is created, the other company has sufficient Distributable Reserves to make an Equivalent Distribution with respect to such Distribution; or (ii) such company agrees to pay, and does pay, to the other company (before such other company pays or makes such Distribution) the minimum amount required by the other company so that it will have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make such an Equivalent Distribution. Notwithstanding compliance with the preceding sentence, if either of Carnival or P&O Princess shall have declared or otherwise become obligated to pay or make an Equivalent Distribution and does not have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make such Equivalent Distribution when due, then the other company shall pay to such company the minimum amount required by such company so that it will have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make such Equivalent Distribution; PROVIDED HOWEVER that if the other company does not have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make in full 10
both the Equivalent Distribution that it declared or became obligated to make and the payment required by this sentence, then (1) such other company shall only pay or make the portion of that Equivalent Distribution (and any related payment that would have been required by this sentence in respect of such portion if it were the entire Equivalent Distribution that it had declared or became obligated to make) that it can make out of its Distributable Reserves; and (2) the first company shall only pay or make the portion of its Equivalent Distribution that it can make out of its Distributable Reserves following receipt of such payment. 3.1.3 For the purposes of Clause 3.1.2, the amount a company is required to pay the other company shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax Benefits of, the parties with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment may be made on the Equalization Share issued by the paying party if both Boards deem it appropriate. 3.2 Timing of Equalized Distributions The parties agree that, insofar as is practical, the Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival shall: (A) in relation to any proposed cash Distribution, agree the amount of the Equivalent Distribution to be made by each company; (B) determine to pay or recommend to pay Equivalent Distributions at Board meetings convened as close in time to each other as is practicable; (C) announce and pay their Equivalent Distributions simultaneously or as close in time as is practicable; (D) ensure that the record dates for receipt of the Equivalent Distributions are on the same date; and (E) generally co-ordinate the timing of all other aspects of the payment or making of Equivalent Distributions. 4. Capital Actions 4.1 Equalization Principle The capital of the DLC Structure is to be deployed and managed in the most effective way for the benefit of the Combined Shareholders. Solely for purposes of construing the provisions of this Clause 4 and the Schedule, and without providing an independent basis for requiring any adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number or the Equalization Ratio or other action hereunder, Carnival and P&O Princess further intend to undertake Actions in such a way as will not give rise to a materially different financial effect as between the interests of the holders of Carnival Common Stock and the interests of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, unless approved as a Class Rights Action. 4.2 Automatic Adjustment If any Action by Carnival or P&O Princess is covered by the Schedule, then an automatic adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number (and therefore the Equalization Ratio) will occur pursuant to such Schedule unless the Board of the other company, in its sole discretion, undertakes: 11
(A) a Matching Action; or (B) an alternative to such automatic adjustment, that has been approved as such by a Class Rights Action, it being understood that the Board of the other company is under no obligation to undertake any such Matching Action or to seek approval as a Class Rights Action of any such alternative. 4.3 Other Actions If any Action by Carnival or P&O Princess is not covered by the Schedule, then no automatic adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number or the Equalization Ratio will occur but the Board of the other company shall have the right (in its sole discretion), but not the obligation (i) to undertake a Matching Action; or (ii) to seek approval of an adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number (and therefore the Equalization Ratio) as a Class Rights Action in order to ensure that the proposed Action does not give rise to materially different financial effects as between the interests of the holders of Carnival Common Stock and the interests of holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. In all cases, the Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival will co-operate in deciding what (if any) Actions or Matching Actions to undertake. 4.4 No Adjustment Required Notwithstanding any other provision of this Clause 4 or the Schedule, no adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number or the Equalization Ratio will be required on the following Actions: (A) grants or issuances by Carnival or P&O Princess of their equity securities, or securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, their equity securities ("equity equivalents"), under scrip dividend or dividend reinvestment schemes where the market value of the equity securities or equity equivalents granted or issued (determined in the manner customary for such schemes or plans in the jurisdictions in which they operate) is equal to, or less than, the cash amount of the dividend waived or reinvested; (B) issuances of equity securities or equity equivalents by either P&O Princess or Carnival pursuant to a share or stock option or purchase or other benefit plan to or on behalf of any one or more of the directors, officers, employees or consultants (in their capacity as such) of such company or any of its Subsidiaries, which plans are either: (i) in existence prior to the date of this Agreement; or (ii) approved by the relevant Board and as otherwise required by Applicable Regulations; (C) any issuance of Carnival Common Stock under the Carnival Convertible Instruments; (D) other issuances by Carnival or P&O Princess of its equity securities or equity equivalents to any person, including for acquisitions, other than by way of rights to the holders of its Shares as a class; 12
(E) repurchases or buy-backs by Carnival or P&O Princess of its Shares as follows: (i) in the market in an offer (1) not made by way of rights to the holders of its Shares; or (2) in compliance with Rule 10b-18 (under the US Securities Exchange Act); (ii) (other than under the preceding sub-clause (i)) at or below market price of such Shares (1) in the case of a repurchase or buy-back at a fixed price, on the Dealing Day immediately preceding the date on which such repurchase or buy-back is announced; or (2) otherwise, on the Dealing Day immediately preceding the date on which such repurchase or buy-back is made; (iii) any purchase by Carnival of Excess Shares (as defined in the Carnival Articles and By-laws) under Article XIII of the Carnival Articles (or any equivalent amended articles of Carnival's Articles); (iv) any purchase pursuant to the provisions of the Carnival Articles and By-laws or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles referred to in Clause 8; and (v) pro rata by way of rights to the Combined Shareholders at the same amount of premium to the market value of the relevant Shares (as adjusted by the Equalization Ratio); (F) Matching Actions; (G) the issue of an Equalization Share in accordance with Clause 14 by either party; (H) any purchase, cancellation or reduction of Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares; (I) any purchase, cancellation or reduction of Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock; and (J) any distribution of shares of beneficial interest in the P&O Princess SVT by Carnival in accordance with the Pairing Agreement among P&O Princess Trustee, Carnival and the transfer agent thereunder, of even date herewith. 4.5 Matching Action For the purposes of this Agreement, a "Matching Action" means, in relation to an Action in respect of the holders of Shares of Carnival or P&O Princess (the "Primary Action"), an Action in respect of the holders of Shares in the other company which the Board of such other company determines (i) has a financial effect on the holders of the Shares of such other company equivalent (but not necessarily identical) to the financial effect of the Primary Action on the holders of Shares of the company undertaking the Primary Action; and (ii) does not materially disadvantage the holders of the Shares of either company. In making the determination referred to in the preceding sentence: (A) the Board of such other company shall consider the then existing Equalization Ratio, the timing of the Primary Action and any proposed Matching Action, and any other relevant circumstances; 13
(B) in relation to any Action, when calculating any economic return to the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock, any Tax or Tax Benefit shall be disregarded; and (C) the Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess shall have no obligation to take into account any fluctuations in exchange rates or in the market value of any securities or any other changes in circumstances arising after the date on which the Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess, as the case may be, decide to undertake a particular Matching Action. 4.6 Boards' Decisions Final The decision as to whether an Action is a Matching Action shall be a decision solely for the Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival, which may obtain appropriate professional advice in connection with such determination if they, in their sole discretion, consider it to be appropriate. Any such decision made by the Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival in accordance with this Clause 4 shall be final and binding. 4.7 Repurchase of Shares 4.7.1 From the date of this Agreement until the second anniversary of the date of this Agreement: (A) no P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (other than P&O Princess Ordinary Shares which, immediately prior to such Repurchase, were Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares) or other shares in the capital of P&O Princess carrying voting rights shall be Repurchased; and (B) Carnival Common Stock may be Repurchased without restriction. 4.7.2 From the second anniversary of the date of this Agreement until the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement: (A) Carnival Common Stock may be Repurchased without restriction; and (B) during each twelve month period commencing on an anniversary of this Agreement, P&O Princess Ordinary Shares representing not more than 5% of the total aggregate number of issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and other shares in the capital of P&O Princess carrying voting rights (including for the purpose of this provision any Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares) as of the beginning of such twelve month period may be Repurchased. 4.7.3 From the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement: (A) there shall be no restriction on the Repurchase of Carnival Common Stock; and (B) there shall be no restriction on the Repurchase of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. 4.7.4 All Repurchases shall be made in accordance with Applicable Regulations. 4.8 Issuance of Shares 14
4.8.1 From the date of this Agreement until the second anniversary of the date of this Agreement: (A) no shares in the capital of P&O Princess carrying voting rights or securities convertible into or exercisable for such shares (other than an Equalization Share and the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) shall be issued to any member of the Carnival Group except where such shares or securities are issued on a pre-emptive basis to all shareholders of P&O Princess; and (B) no shares in the capital of Carnival carrying voting rights or securities convertible into or exercisable for such shares (other than an Equalization Share) shall be issued to any member of the P&O Princess Group except where such shares or securities are issued on a pre-emptive basis to all shareholders of Carnival. 4.8.2 From the second anniversary of the date of this Agreement until the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement: (A) during each twelve month period commencing on an anniversary of this Agreement, shares in the capital of P&O Princess carrying voting rights or securities convertible into or exercisable for such shares representing (in the aggregate, on an as-converted basis) not more than 5% of the total aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares in the capital of P&O Princess carrying voting rights and the shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of such securities (including any Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares) as of the beginning of such twelve month period may be issued to a member of the Carnival Group; and (B) during each twelve month period commencing on an anniversary of this Agreement, shares in the capital of Carnival carrying voting rights or securities convertible or exercisable for into such shares representing (in the aggregate, on an as-converted basis) not more than 5% of the total aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares in the capital of Carnival carrying voting rights and the shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of such securities (including for the purpose of this provision any Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock) as of the beginning of such twelve month period may be issued to a member of the P&O Princess Group. 4.8.3 From the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement: (A) there shall be no restriction on the issue of Carnival Common Stock to a member of the P&O Princess Group; and (B) there shall be no restriction on the issue of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares to a member of the Carnival Group. 4.8.4 All issuances of shares by Carnival and P&O Princess shall be made in accordance with Applicable Regulations. 15
5. Joint Electorate Actions 5.1 Joint Electorate Actions 5.1.1 All actions put to shareholders of either P&O Princess or Carnival, except for Class Rights Actions (see Clause 6 below) or resolutions of a procedural or administrative nature (see Clause 7.5 below), will be Joint Electorate Actions. 5.1.2 For the avoidance of doubt, the following actions, if put to the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or the holders of Carnival Common Stock, will be put to the Combined Shareholders as Joint Electorate Actions: (A) the appointment, removal or re-election of any director of Carnival or P&O Princess, or both of them; (B) to the extent such receipt or adoption is required by Applicable Regulations, the receipt or adoption of the financial statements of P&O Princess or Carnival, or both of them, or accounts prepared on a combined basis, other than any accounts in respect of the period(s) ended prior to the date of Completion; (C) a change of name by P&O Princess or Carnival, or both of them; or (D) the appointment or removal of the auditors of P&O Princess or Carnival, or both of them. 5.2 Joint Electorate Procedure A Joint Electorate Action shall be approved under the Joint Electorate Procedure if, and only if, such action shall have been approved by: (A) a Majority Resolution of P&O Princess (or, if the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles or Applicable Regulations require the action to be approved by Supermajority Resolution of the holders of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, by a Supermajority Resolution); and (B) a Majority Resolution of Carnival (or, if the Carnival Articles and By-laws or Applicable Regulations require the action to be approved by Supermajority Resolution of the holders of the Carnival Common Stock, by a Supermajority Resolution). 5.3 Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares If at any relevant time the rights attached to the Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares enable the holders of such shares to vote at any general meeting or class meeting of the Company then all references in Clauses 5.1 and 5.2 to: (A) shareholders of P&O Princess; (B) holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares; and (C) Combined Shareholders, shall include the holders of the Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares and such persons shall have the right to vote such shares on Joint Electorate Actions, Class Rights Actions 16
of P&O Princess and procedural resolutions in the same manner as the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares for the purposes of Clauses 5, 6 and 7. 5.4 Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock If at any relevant time the rights attached to the Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock enable the holders of such shares to vote at any general meeting or class meeting of the Company then all references in Clauses 5.1 and 5.2 to: (A) shareholders of Carnival; (B) holders of Carnival Common Stock; and (C) Combined Shareholders, shall include the holders of the Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock and such persons shall have the right to vote such shares on Joint Electorate Actions, Class Rights Actions of Carnival and procedural resolutions in the same manner as holders of Carnival Common Stock for the purposes of Clauses 5, 6 and 7. 6. Separate Approvals of Class Rights Actions 6.1 Class Rights Action Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if either P&O Princess or Carnival proposes to take any of the following actions: (A) the voluntary Liquidation of such company for which the approval of shareholders is required by Applicable Regulations or otherwise sought other than a voluntary Liquidation of both companies at or about the same time with the purpose or effect of no longer continuing the operation of the businesses of the companies as a combined going concern and not as part of a scheme, plan, transaction, or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to reconstitute all or a substantial part of such businesses in one or more successor entities; (B) the sale, lease exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such company, other than in a bona fide commercial transaction undertaken for a valid business purpose in which such company receives consideration with a fair market value reasonably equivalent to the assets disposed of and not as a part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to collapse or unify the DLC Structure; (C) any adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number or the Equalization Ratio otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (D) except where specifically provided for in the relevant agreements, any amendment to the terms of, or termination of, this Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed, the P&O Princess Guarantee or the Carnival Guarantee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the voluntary termination of either Guarantee); (E) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) any P&O Princess Entrenched Provision or any Carnival Entrenched Provision; 17
(F) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) Article XII or XIII of the Carnival Articles that would cause, or at the time of implementation would be reasonably likely to cause, an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition of such term in the P&O Princess Articles to occur; and (G) the doing of anything which the Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess agree (either in a particular case or generally), in their absolute discretion, should be approved as a Class Rights Action, each of them agrees with the other that it shall only take such action after it has been approved as a Class Rights Action in accordance with this Clause 6. 6.2 Approvals of Class Rights Action A Class Rights Action shall require approval by a Majority Resolution of each company, unless Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-laws and the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (as relevant) require such Class Rights Action to be approved as a Supermajority Resolution by either or both companies, in which case it shall be approved as a Supermajority Resolution by the relevant company or companies to which such requirement applies (the "Required Majority"). 6.3 Class Rights Procedure A Class Rights Action must be approved separately by the Required Majority of (i) the holders of the Carnival Common Stock and the holders of any other class of shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-laws; and (ii) the holders of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the holders of any other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles. Each of Carnival and P&O Princess will convene a shareholders meeting at which the holders of its Shares and the holder of its Special Voting Share (and the holders of any other relevant class of shares) may vote upon the Class Rights Action together as a single class on a poll; PROVIDED THAT the holder of the relevant Special Voting Share shall not vote on such resolution unless the Class Rights Action is not approved by the Required Majority of the holders of Shares (and any other relevant class of shares) of the other company, in which case the holder of the Special Voting Share shall cast all votes to which the Special Voting Share is entitled against such resolution in accordance with the Carnival Articles and By-laws (in the case of the Carnival Special Voting Share) or in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles of Association (in the case of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share). 7. Meetings and Voting 7.1 Obligations to convene meetings In relation to both Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions: (A) each party shall, as soon as practicable, convene a meeting of its shareholders for the purpose of considering a resolution to approve the Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action; 18
(B) each party shall endeavour to ensure such meetings are held on dates as close together as is practicable; and (C) the parties shall co-operate fully with each other in preparing resolutions, explanatory memoranda or any other information or material required in connection with the proposed Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. 7.2 Poll Each of P&O Princess and Carnival agrees with the other that any resolution proposed at a meeting of its shareholders in relation to which the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, or the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share, is or may be entitled to vote shall be decided on by a poll (i.e. by tabulation of individual votes) and not, for the avoidance of doubt, on a show of hands. 7.3 Timing of Poll 7.3.1 P&O Princess agrees with Carnival that any poll in which the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share is or may be entitled to vote shall (as regards the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) be kept open for such time as to allow the corresponding general meeting of Carnival to be held and for the votes attaching to the P&O Princess Special Voting Share to be calculated and cast on such poll, although such poll may be closed earlier in respect of shares of other classes. 7.3.2 Carnival agrees with P&O Princess that any poll on which the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share is or may be entitled to vote shall (as regards the Carnival Special Voting Share) be kept open for such time as to allow the corresponding general meeting of P&O Princess to be held and for the votes attaching to the Carnival Special Voting Share to be calculated and cast on such poll, although such poll may be closed earlier in respect of shares of other classes. 7.4 Discretionary Matters The Boards of P&O Princess and Carnival may by agreement (subject to Applicable Regulations): (A) decide to seek the approval of the shareholders (or any class of shareholders) of either or both of P&O Princess and Carnival for any matter that would not otherwise require such approval; (B) require any Joint Electorate Action to be approved instead as a Class Rights Action; or (C) specify a higher majority vote than the majority that would otherwise be required for any shareholder vote provided for in this Clause 7. 7.5 Procedural Resolutions Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, resolutions of Carnival or P&O Princess of a procedural or technical nature (and which do not adversely affect the other company or its shareholders in any material respect) shall not constitute Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions and will be voted on by the relevant company's shareholders voting separately, and neither Special Voting Share will 19
have any vote on those resolutions. Resolutions which will constitute resolutions of a procedural or technical nature may include any resolution: (A) that certain people be allowed to attend or excluded from attending the meeting; (B) that discussion be closed and the question put to the vote (provided no amendments have been raised); (C) that the question under discussion not be put to the vote; (D) to proceed with matters in an order other than that set out in the notice of the meeting; (E) to adjourn the debate (for example, to a subsequent meeting); and (F) to adjourn the meeting. 8. Change of Control of Either P&O Princess or Carnival Carnival and P&O Princess shall co-operate with each other in the prompt enforcement of the provisions of Articles XIV and XV of the Carnival Articles and Articles 277 to 286 of the P&O Princess Articles of Association to the full extent possible under law. 9. Stock Exchanges Each of P&O Princess and Carnival will, and so far as it is able will ensure that each of its Subsidiaries will, ensure that it is in a position to comply with obligations imposed on it by all stock exchanges on which either or both of the parties' shares (or other securities or depository receipts representing such shares or securities) are from time to time listed, quoted or traded. 10. Liquidation 10.1 Liquidation Principle If either or both of Carnival and/or P&O Princess goes into any voluntary or involuntary Liquidation, Carnival and P&O Princess will, subject to Clause 10.2 below, make and receive such payments or take such other actions required to ensure that the holders of Shares (which, for the avoidance of doubt in this Clause 10 do not include the holders of Disenfranchised Shares) of each entity would, had each entity gone into Liquidation on the same date, be entitled to receive a Liquidation Distribution which is equivalent on a per Share basis in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio, having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate but ignoring any shareholder Tax or Tax Benefit. 10.2 Liquidation Procedure 10.2.1 To establish the amount payable under Clause 10.1, each of Carnival and P&O Princess will determine the amount of assets (if any) it will have available for distribution in a Liquidation on the date of Liquidation (or notional date of Liquidation) to holders of its Shares after payment of all its debts and other financial obligations, including any tax costs associated with the realisation of any assets on a Liquidation and any payments due on any preference shares (its "Net Assets"). To the extent that the Net Assets of one company would enable it to make a Liquidation Distribution to the holders of its Shares that is greater than 20
the Liquidation Distribution that the other company could pay from its Net Assets to the holders of its Shares, adjusting such comparative Liquidation Distribution in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but ignoring any shareholder Tax (including any withholding Tax required to be deducted by the company concerned) or Tax Benefit, then, subject to Clause 10.2.2, such company will make a balancing payment (or take any other balancing action described in Clause 10.3 below) in such amount as will ensure that both companies may make equivalent Liquidation Distributions to the holders of their Shares in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but ignoring any shareholder Tax (including any withholding Tax required to be deducted by the company concerned) or Tax Benefit, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT no company need make a balancing payment (or take any other action) as described in this Clause 10.2 if it would result in neither the holders of Carnival Common Stock nor the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares being entitled to receive any Liquidation Distribution at all. 10.2.2 For purposes of Clause 10.2.1, the amount a company is required to pay the other company shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax credits, losses or deductions of, the parties with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment may be made on the Equalization Share issued by the paying party if both Boards deem it appropriate. 10.3 Liquidation Actions In giving effect to the principle regarding a Liquidation of Carnival and/or P&O Princess described above, Carnival and P&O Princess shall take such action as may be required to give effect to that principle, which may include: (A) making a payment (of cash or in specie) to the other company; (B) issuing shares (which may include the Equalization Share) to the other party or to holders of Shares of the other party and making a distribution or return on such Shares; or (C) taking any other action that the Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess shall both consider appropriate to give effect to that principle. Any action other than a payment of cash by one company to the other shall require the prior approval of the Boards of both companies. 11. Termination Either Carnival or P&O Princess may terminate this Agreement: (A) on the mutual agreement of both parties (upon approval as a Class Rights Action); (B) if either party becomes a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the other; or (C) after all Liquidation obligations under Clause 10 have been satisfied. 21
12. Consequences of Termination 12.1 Non Dual-Listed Group In any combination of Carnival and P&O Princess into a single non dual-listed group, the consideration to be received by the holders of Shares in the two companies will be calculated by reference to the applicable Equalization Ratio. 12.2 Other Circumstances 12.2.1 In any other circumstances of termination of the DLC Structure, the Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess will use their reasonable endeavours to agree a termination proposal to be put to their shareholders which the Boards consider to be equitable to both the holders of Carnival Common Stock and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, at the applicable Equalization Ratio and using an exchange rate agreed by the parties (failing which, such exchange rate to be determined by an independent accounting firm). If the Boards cannot agree on the proposal to be put to their respective holders of Shares, each Board will appoint an independent accounting firm to establish the value of its company as at the proposed date of termination. The two accounting firms will use the same principles of valuation. If the accounting firms fail to agree on each other's valuation of any company, then a third independent accounting firm shall be appointed to finally determine the value of such company or companies. If, subject to Clause 12.2.2, the agreed/determined respective values of each company on a per Share basis (using the agreed or determined exchange rate) are not equivalent in accordance with the Equalization Ratio at the proposed date of termination then a balancing payment, or other balancing action agreed by the companies, will be made by one company to the other as appropriate in such amount as will ensure that such values are equivalent in accordance with such Equalization Ratio. 12.2.2 For purposes of Clause 12.2.1, the amount a company is required to pay the other company shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax credits, losses or deductions of, the parties with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment may be made on the Equalization Share issued by the paying party if both Boards deem it appropriate. 13. Personal rights only 13.1 Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 The parties to this Agreement do not intend that any term of this Agreement should be enforceable, by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001, by any person who is not a party to this Agreement. 13.2 Personal rights For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Agreement are personal rights only. They do not, and are not intended to, create any proprietary right (including any proprietary right in any member, shareholder or creditor of P&O Princess or Carnival). These undertakings are not assignable, and cannot be subject to a mortgage, charge, pledge, encumbrance or other security interest. These undertakings do not survive any termination of this Agreement. It is fundamental to the agreement of each of P&O 22
Princess and Carnival to give these undertakings that they should be relied on solely by the other, and it is fundamental to the agreement of each of P&O Princess and Carnival to accept these undertakings that they should be performed solely by the other. 14. Issue of Equalization Shares The parties agree that the Board of P&O Princess and the Board of Carnival may agree to the issue of the P&O Princess Equalization Share to a member of the Carnival Group (against the nominal value of that share) and of the Carnival Equalization Share to a member of the P&O Princess Group (against the nominal value of that share), but that neither Carnival or P&O Princess shall issue its Equalization Share unless the Board of Carnival and the Board of P&O Princess shall have agreed to such issue. 15. Relationship with other documents In the event of any conflict between this Agreement on the one hand and on the other hand either of the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles or the Carnival Articles and By-laws, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail and the parties shall use their best endeavours to ensure that any required amendment to the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles or the Carnival Articles and By-laws, as is appropriate, is proposed at meetings of P&O Princess and/or as the case may be Carnival in order to conform it or them with the provisions of this Agreement. 16. Miscellaneous 16.1 Regulatory The parties will co-operate with each other from time to time to ensure that all information necessary or desirable for the making of (or responding to any requests for further information consequent upon) any notifications or filings made in respect of this Agreement, or the transactions contemplated hereunder, is supplied to the party dealing with such notification and filings and that they are properly, accurately and promptly made. 16.2 No assignment Neither of the parties may assign any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement in whole or in part without the approval of the other party. 16.3 No waiver No waiver by a party of a failure or failures by the other party to perform any provision of this Agreement shall operate or be construed as a waiver in respect of any other or further failure whether of a like or different character. 16.4 No partnership Neither this Agreement nor the DLC Transactions are intended for any legal, tax or other purpose to (i) alter the status of P&O Princess and Carnival as separate, independent entities (taxed respectively and exclusively as a United Kingdom and a Panamanian non-resident corporation), (ii) result in any of Carnival, P&O Princess, their respective Subsidiaries, or their respective shareholders being treated as creating an entity or otherwise entering into any partnership, joint venture, association or agency relationship, or (iii) give either party (or its respective Subsidiaries or shareholders) any legal or 23
beneficial ownership interest in the assets or income of the other party, and shall not be construed as having such effect. 16.5 Applicable Regulations Each of the obligations of the parties hereto shall be subject to any Applicable Regulations as in force from time to time. To the extent not prohibited by law, the parties will do all things necessary to remedy any situation where Applicable Regulations prevent any party from performing its obligations hereunder. 16.6 Severance If any of the provisions of this Agreement is or becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable under any relevant law, the validity, legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties shall thereupon negotiate in good faith in order to agree the terms of a mutually satisfactory provision, achieving as nearly as possible the same commercial effect, to be substituted for the provision found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable. 16.7 Amendment Any amendment to or termination of this Agreement shall be made in writing signed by duly authorised representatives of P&O Princess and Carnival. Any amendments to this Agreement which are formal or technical in nature and which are not materially prejudicial to the interests of the shareholders of either party or are necessary to correct any inconsistency or manifest error may be agreed between the Board of P&O Princess and the Board of Carnival. Any other amendment to this Agreement shall, for the avoidance of doubt, require approval by a Class Rights Action. 17. Notices Notices, requests, instructions or other documents to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given (i) when sent if sent by facsimile is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof; or (ii) when delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient or sent by overnight delivery via a national courier service, and in each case, addressed to such person or persons at such address or addresses as each party shall notify in writing to the other party at the address given at the head of this Agreement or thereafter at the relevant address for notification from time to time. 18. Counterparts This Agreement may be entered into in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. Either party may enter into this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. 19. Governing Law This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Isle of Man. 24
20. Arbitration (A) Any and all disputes, controversies or claims arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, any provision hereof, or any alleged breach hereof, and any and all disputes, controversies or claims relating to the validity of this Agreement (all of which are referred to herein as "Disputes"), even though some or all of such Disputes are alleged to be extra-contractual in nature, whether such Disputes sound in contract, tort or otherwise, at law or in equity, whether for damages, specific performance or other relief, shall be finally and exclusively determined by final and binding arbitration in accordance with this Clause 20. (B) The arbitral tribunal (the "Tribunal") shall be composed of three arbitrators, which shall be appointed as follows: each party shall have the right to appoint one arbitrator; the two arbitrators so appointed shall then appoint a third arbitrator who shall serve as the Chairman of the Tribunal. A person or persons, entitled to appoint an arbitrator, shall appoint such arbitrator within ten (10) days of receiving notice from a party of the commencement of an arbitration, failing which such arbitrator shall, at the written request of either party, be appointed by the International Chamber of Commerce. At the initiation of a proceeding and upon the convening of the Tribunal, the arbitrators shall take an oath of neutrality and shall decide the matters presented to them based upon the evidence submitted in the proceeding and without regard to the origin or circumstances of their appointment or selection for service on the Tribunal. (C) The construction and interpretation of this Clause 20, and all rules of conduct of any arbitration conducted pursuant to this Clause 20 (including procedural and evidentiary matters), shall be determined by the Tribunal. Unless otherwise unanimously agreed by the arbitrators, the venue of the arbitration shall be Miami, Florida, USA. (D) The Tribunal shall conduct a hearing as soon as reasonably practicable after a matter has been submitted for arbitration by a party and the members of the Tribunal have been selected. As the Tribunal may direct and without the necessity of subpoenas or other court orders, the parties shall make their agents, employees and witnesses available upon reasonable notice at reasonable times for deposition or for testimony at the hearing and shall respond to requests for documents. An award completely disposing of all Disputes (a "Final Award") shall be rendered by the Tribunal as soon as reasonably practicable after the hearing. The Tribunal shall not be required to submit a detailed statement of its reasons, but shall set forth concisely in the Final Award the amounts, actions, contractual responsibilities or other remedial conclusions that the Tribunal determines to be appropriate. (E) Each party acknowledges and agrees that in the event either party breaches any of its obligations under this Agreement, the other party would be irreparably harmed and could not be made whole by monetary damages alone. Both parties accordingly agree that the Tribunal shall have the authority to grant any party all appropriate non-monetary relief, including ordering a breaching party to comply fully with its obligations under the Agreement, ordering specific performance or granting temporary or permanent injunctive relief; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that nothing in this Clause 20 shall be construed to limit the Tribunal in awarding 25
monetary damages, whether as a sole remedy or together with remedies for specific performance and/or injunctive relief. (F) Any award made by the Tribunal shall be final and binding upon each party, each of which expressly waives all right to appeal or recourse to any court. The Final Award may be confirmed, and a judgement entered or enforced, in any court of competent jurisdiction in the United States or the United Kingdom. (G) The fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall be borne equally by the parties, but the Final Award may include such allocations and awards of the arbitrators' fees and expenses as the Tribunal determines is appropriate. IN WITNESS whereof this Agreement has been executed on the date first written above. 26
Schedule Automatic Adjustments to the Carnival Equivalent Number 1. Automatic Adjustments 1.1 Rights issue of Shares If either Carnival or P&O Princess (the "Relevant Company") shall offer its Shares to the holders of its Shares as a class by way of rights at less than the Current Market Price of such Shares, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be adjusted by: (i) dividing the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where Carnival is the Relevant Company; and (ii) multiplying the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where P&O Princess is the Relevant Company: K + L Q ----- where L = - M K + M P where: K is the number of Shares of the Relevant Company which rank for the relevant offer; M is the aggregate number of Shares being offered to the holders of Shares of the Relevant Company; P is the Current Market Price of one Share of the Relevant Company; and Q is the price per Share being offered to the holders of Shares of the Relevant Company. The adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number shall become effective from the later of the time at which the Shares of the Relevant Company are first traded ex-rights and the time at which the issue of the Shares becomes wholly unconditional. 1.2 Rights issue of other securities If the Relevant Company shall offer any securities (other than a rights issue of Shares described in paragraph 1.1 of this Schedule) to holders of its Shares as a class by way of rights, or grant to such shareholders as a class by way of rights, any options, warrants or other rights to subscribe for, purchase or sell any securities, Carnival Equivalent Number shall be adjusted by: (i) dividing the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where Carnival is the Relevant Company; and (ii) multiplying the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where P&O Princess is the Relevant Company: R - S ----- R 27
where: R is the Current Market Price of one Share; and S is the estimated Fair Market Value (calculated in the same currency as the Shares described in R above) of the portion of the rights attributable to one Share of the Relevant Company over any five consecutive Dealing Days determined by the Board of the Relevant Company during the twenty Dealing Days preceding the date on which the Shares are first traded ex-rights. The adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number shall become effective from the later of the time at which the Shares of the Relevant Company are first traded ex-rights and the time at which the issue of the Shares becomes wholly unconditional. 1.3 Non cash distributions and share repurchases If the Relevant Company shall implement (i) any distribution of any non-cash assets; or (ii) any repurchase of its Shares involving an offer made to all or substantially all of its holders of Shares to repurchase their Shares at a premium to the Current Market Price of such shares, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be adjusted by: (i) dividing the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where Carnival is the Relevant Company; and (ii) multiplying the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where P&O Princess is the Relevant Company: V T - - U ----- T where: T is the Current Market Price of one Share of the Relevant Company; U is equal to the number of Shares of the Relevant Company prior to the non cash distribution or repurchase; and V is (i) in the case of a non cash distribution, the aggregate Fair Market Value of the assets distributed to shareholders of the Relevant Company; and (ii) in the case of a repurchase, the aggregate premium paid to holders of Shares; in either case denominated in the same currency as the Current Market Price referred to in T and disregarding the effect of any shareholder Taxes or Tax Benefits and/or any fees incurred in connection with the non-cash Distribution or repurchase. The adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number shall become effective immediately following implementation of the non-cash Distribution or repurchase. 1.4 Consolidation or subdivision of shares If there shall be a change to the number of Shares of the Relevant Company as a result of a consolidation or subdivision of shares, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be adjusted by: 28
(i) dividing the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where Carnival is the Relevant Company; and (ii) multiplying the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where P&O Princess is the Relevant Company: X - Y where: X is the number of Shares of the Relevant Company outstanding or in issue immediately before such alteration; and Y is the number of Shares of the Relevant Company outstanding or in issue immediately after such alteration. The adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number shall become effective immediately after the alteration takes effect. 1.5 Bonus issue or stock dividend If the Relevant Company issues any Shares to holders of Shares for no consideration or solely by way of capitalisation of profits or reserves, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be adjusted by: (i) dividing the Carnival Equivalent Number following fraction where Carnival is the Relevant Company; and (ii) multiplying the Carnival Equivalent Number by the following fraction where P&O Princess is the Relevant Company: X - Y where: X is the number of Shares of the Relevant Company outstanding immediately before the issue; and Y is the number of Shares of the Relevant Company outstanding immediately after such issue. The adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number shall become effective from the time the issue of such Shares becomes wholly unconditional. 2. Certification The auditors for the time being of P&O Princess and Carnival shall jointly certify the arithmetical adjustment to be made to the Carnival Equivalent Number in the circumstances set out in this Schedule where an adjustment is made to such Carnival Equivalent Number and any adjustments so certified shall, in the absence of manifest error, be final and binding on the parties and on all others affected thereby. P&O Princess and Carnival agree with each other to make and co-ordinate such public announcements 29
as are appropriate in relation to any such adjustments, subject to the requirements of Applicable Regulations. 3. Definitions In this Schedule: "Current Market Price" means the average market price of one Share of the Relevant Company (on its primary or main stock exchange) calculated over any five consecutive Dealing Days determined by the Board of the Relevant Company during the twenty Dealing Days preceding: (i) in the case of P in paragraph 1.1 and R in paragraph 1.2, the date on which such Shares are first traded ex-rights; and (ii) in the case of T in paragraph 1.3, the date on which the non-cash distribution or repurchase is implemented; "Dealing Day" means, with respect to any relevant market for the Shares, a day on which trading is conducted in such market; and "Fair Market Value" means the fair market value determined by an investment bank of international repute appointed by agreement between the Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess, acting as expert and not as arbitrator and whose determination (in the absence of manifest error) shall be final and binding on the parties and on all others affected by such determination. 30

Exhibit 99.4 AGREED FORM DATED 2003 -------------------------------------------------------------------------- CARNIVAL CORPORATION [CARNIVAL SVC] LIMITED P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC P&O PRINCESS TRUSTEE [CARNIVAL SVC OWNER] ------------------------------------------- SVE SPECIAL VOTING DEED -------------------------------------------
CONTENTS
THIS SVE SPECIAL VOTING DEED is dated 2003 BETWEEN (1) CARNIVAL CORPORATION, a Panamanian corporation, having its principal place of business at Carnival Place, 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue, Miami, Florida, 33178-2428 ("Carnival"); (2) CARNIVAL SVC LIMITED, a company incorporated in England and Wales (Registered No. [.]), having its registered office at [.] ("Carnival SVC"); (3) P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC, a company incorporated in England and Wales (Registered No 4039524) and having its registered office at 77 New Oxford Street, London, WC1A 1PP ("P&O Princess"); (4) [.], a __________ corporation, having its principal place of business at [.], in its capacity as the trustee (the "P&O Princess Trustee") of P&O Princess Special Voting Trust ("P&O Princess SVT"), a trust formed under the laws of __________ pursuant to the Voting Trust Agreement between Carnival and the P&O Princess Trustee of even date herewith (the "P&O Princess SVT Constitution"); and (5) [.], a company incorporated in England and Wales (Registered No [.]), having its registered office at [.] (the "Carnival SVC Owner"). Recitals (A) Carnival and P&O Princess entered into the Implementation Agreement pursuant to which Carnival and P&O Princess have agreed to do certain acts and things to implement the DLC Structure and create certain rights for the Carnival shareholders and the P&O Princess shareholders in respect of their indirect interests in the combined enterprise. (B) Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee have agreed to carry out certain functions in accordance with the provisions of this Deed in connection with their ownership of the Carnival Special Voting Share and the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, respectively. (C) The Carnival SVC Owner is the legal and beneficial owner of all the shares in Carnival SVC. (D) The P&O Princess Trustee is the trustee of P&O Princess SVT. IT IS AGREED on and from Completion as follows. 1. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 1.1 Definitions The following definitions apply unless otherwise specified in this Deed: "Applicable Regulations" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; 1
"Board of Carnival" means the board of directors of Carnival (or a duly appointed committee of that board) from time to time; "Boards of Carnival and P&O Princess" means the Board of Carnival and the Board of P&O Princess; "Board of P&O Princess" means the board of directors of P&O Princess (or a duly appointed committee of that board) from time to time; "Business Day" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; "Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning given to it in the Carnival Constitution; "Carnival Constitution" means the Articles of Incorporation and the By-Laws of Carnival which will be in effect immediately following Completion, as amended from time to time; "Carnival Equivalent Number" has the same meaning as in the Equilization Agreement. "Carnival Group" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; "Carnival Special Voting Share" means the special voting share of US$0.01 in Carnival; "Carnival Specified Numbers" means, in relation to a resolution to consider a Joint Electorate Action at a meeting of P&O Princess shareholders, (i) the number of votes Cast in favour of the Equivalent Resolution of Carnival at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of Carnival shareholders divided by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of P&O Princess shareholders is held rounded up to the nearest whole number; (ii) the number of votes Cast against the Carnival Equivalent Number of Carnival at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of Carnival shareholders divided by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of P&O Princess shareholders is held, rounded up to the nearest whole number; and (iii) the number of votes Cast as formal abstentions in relation to the Equivalent Resolution of Carnival at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of Carnival shareholders divided by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of P&O Princess shareholders is held, rounded up to the nearest whole number; "Carnival SVC Constitution" means the Memorandum and Articles of Association of Carnival SVC; "Cast" means, separately, the number of votes recorded (i) in favour; (ii) against; and (iii) formally abstained in accordance with the terms of the P&O Princess Articles or the Carnival Constitution (as applicable) by holders of Carnival Common Stock (and of any other stock in Carnival (other than the Carnival Special Voting Share) that from time to time are entitled to vote on the relevant resolution) or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (and of any other shares in P&O Princess (other than the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) that from time to time are entitled to vote on the relevant resolution), as the context requires "Class Rights Action" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; 2
"Companies Act" means the UK Companies Act 1985 as amended; "Completion" means the time at which the steps set out in Section 2.2 of the Implementation Agreement have been completed; "Deal" in relation to a share or an interest in a share or the rights attaching to a share, means transfer, assign (by operation of law or otherwise), convey, create an Encumbrance over or otherwise deal (or agree to do any of those things) with such share or interest or rights in any way whatsoever and "Dealing" shall be construed accordingly; "DLC Structure" means the combination of Carnival and P&O Princess by means of a dual listed company structure whereby, amongst other things, Carnival and P&O Princess have a unified management structure and the businesses of both the Carnival Group and the P&O Princess Group are managed on a unified basis in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement; "Encumbrance" means an interest or power: (a) reserved in or over any interest in any asset (including shares) including any retention of title; or (b) created or otherwise arising in or over any interest in any asset (including shares) under a bill of sale, mortgage, charge, lien, pledge, trust or power, by way of security for the payment of debt or any other monetary obligation or the performance of any other obligation and whether existing or agreed to be granted or created; "Equalization Agreement" means the Equalization and Governance Agreement entered into between Carnival and P&O Princess on the same date as this Deed; "Equivalent Resolution" means a resolution of either Carnival or P&O Princess, as applicable, certified in accordance with this Deed by a duly authorised officer of Carnival or a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess (as applicable) as equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company. (For example, a resolution to appoint an individual as a director of Carnival or to appoint the auditors of Carnival would, if a resolution considering such matters in relation to P&O Princess were put to a meeting of P&O Princess' shareholders, be the equivalent resolution (provided that a duly authorised officer of Carnival and a duly authorised officer of P&O give the certification described above) to a resolution to appoint the same individual as a director of P&O Princess or to appoint the auditors of P&O Princess, and vice versa. In addition, if a resolution was proposed by one of the companies (the "Proposing Company") that did not need to be proposed by the other company (the "Other Company"), (e.g. a resolution for the approval of the disapplication of pre-emption rights if under Applicable Regulations this needs to be approved by P&O Princess' shareholders, but not by Carnival's shareholders), then the Proposing Company would put that resolution to a meeting of its shareholders and the same or substantially the same resolution (provided that a duly authorised officer of Carnival and a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess give the certification described above) would also be put to a meeting of the Other Company's shareholders, to enable both sets of shareholders to vote on that resolution); "Governmental Agency" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; 3
"Implementation Agreement" means the Offer and Implementation Agreement, dated as of 8 January 2003, between Carnival and P&O Princess; "Joint Electorate Action" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; "London Stock Exchange" means London Stock Exchange plc; "Majority Resolution" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, a resolution duly approved at a meeting of the shareholders of such company by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes Voted on such resolution by all shareholders of such company entitled to vote thereon (including, where appropriate, the holder of the Special Voting Share of such company) who are present in person or by proxy at such meeting; "NYSE" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; "Parallel Shareholder Meeting" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, any meeting of the shareholders of that company which is: (a) nearest in time to, or is actually contemporaneous with, the meeting of the shareholders of the other company and at which some or some or all of the same resolutions or some or all of the Equivalent Resolutions are to be considered; or (b) designated by the Board of Carnival or the Board of P&O Princess, as the case may be, as the parallel meeting of shareholders of a particular meeting of shareholders of the other company. "P&O Princess Articles" means the Articles of Association of P&O Princess which will be in effect as immediately following Completion as amended from time to time; "P&O Princess Group" has the same meaning as in the Equalization Agreement; "P&O Princess ADS" means an American Depositary Share of P&O Princess, each of which currently represents four P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, which is listed on the NYSE; "P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to it in the P&O Princess Articles; "P&O Princess Special Voting Share" means the special voting share of (pound)1 in P&O Princess; "P&O Princess Specified Numbers" means, in relation to a resolution to consider a Joint Electorate Action at a meeting of Carnival shareholders (i) the number of votes Cast in favour of the Equivalent Resolution of P&O Princess at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess shareholders multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of Carnival shareholders is held, rounded up to the nearest whole number; (ii) the number of votes Cast against the Equivalent Resolution of P&O Princess at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess shareholders multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of Carnival shareholders is held, rounded up to the nearest whole number; and (iii) the number of votes Cast as formal abstentions in relation to the Equivalent Resolution of P&O Princess at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of 4
P&O Princess shareholders multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of Carnival shareholders is held, rounded up to the nearest whole number; "SEC" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission; "Shares" means, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and, in relation to Carnival, the Carnival Common Stock; "Special Voting Share" means, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and, in relation to Carnival, the Carnival Special Voting Share; "Subsidiary" means with respect to P&O Princess or Carnival, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which P&O Princess or Carnival owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which P&O Princess or Carnival otherwise has the power to direct; "Supermajority Resolution" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, a resolution required by Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Constitution or the P&O Princess Articles, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes Voted than required under a Majority Resolution, or where the percentage of votes Voted in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by a Majority Resolution; "UKLA" means the Financial Services Authority in its capacity as competent authority for the purposes of Part VI of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; and "Voted" means the number of votes recorded in favour of and against a particular resolution at a shareholders' meeting of either P&O Princess or Carnival by holders of Shares, holders of any other class of shares entitled to vote and the holder of the relevant Special Voting Share PROVIDED THAT votes recorded as abstentions by holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (or any other class of shares entitled to vote) shall not be counted as having been Voted for these purposes. 1.2 Interpretation The headings herein are for convenience of reference only and do not constitute part of this Deed and shall not be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions hereof. The following rules of interpretation apply unless the context requires otherwise. (a) The singular includes the plural and conversely. (b) A gender includes all genders. (c) Where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning. (d) A reference to a person includes a body corporate, an unincorporated body or other entity. 5
(e) A reference to a clause is to a clause of this Deed unless otherwise indicated. (f) A reference to any party to this Deed or any other agreement or document includes the party's successors and permitted assigns. (g) A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time, except to the extent prohibited by this Deed. (h) A reference to any legislation (including any listing rules of a stock exchange or voluntary codes) or to any provision of any legislation includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative provision substituted for it and all rules and regulations and statutory instruments issued thereunder. (i) A reference to $ is to US dollars and a reference to(Pound)is to pounds sterling. (j) A reference to conduct includes any omission and any statement or undertaking, whether or not in writing. (k) A reference to writing includes a facsimile transmission and any other means of reproducing words in a tangible and permanently visible form. (l) Whenever the words include, includes or including are used in this Deed, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words without limitation; (m) A reference to a body, other than a party to this Deed (including, an institute, association, authority or Governmental Agency), whether statutory or not: (i) which ceases to exist; or (ii) whose powers or functions are transferred to another body, is a reference to the body which replaces it or which substantially succeeds to its powers or functions. (n) All references to time are to local time in the place where the relevant obligation is to be performed (or right exercised). 1.3 Business Day Where the day on or by which any thing is to be done is not a Business Day, that thing must be done on or by the Business Day following such day. 2. NOTIFICATION OF VOTES CAST ON JOINT ELECTORATE ACTIONS AT A PARALLEL SHAREHOLDER MEETING AND CALCULATION OF SPECIFIED NUMBER 2.1 Notification by Carnival Carnival agrees with the P&O Princess Trustee and P&O Princess that, in relation to each meeting of Carnival shareholders at which any resolution relating to a Joint Electorate Action is to be considered, Carnival shall, as soon as possible after the Carnival shareholders (other than the Carnival SVC) entitled to vote on any such resolution Cast those votes at such shareholder meeting, deliver to the P&O Princess Trustee and P&O Princess in writing in accordance with clause 17.4 a report of the 6
inspectors of election for such shareholder meeting setting forth the details in (a) below and a statement by a duly authorised officer of Carnival setting forth the details in (b) below: (a) how the votes were Cast (including the number of votes Cast) at the meeting of Carnival shareholders in relation to each such Equivalent Resolution; and (b) its calculation of the Carnival Specified Numbers applicable to the P&O Princess Special Voting Share for each Equivalent Resolution for a Joint Electorate Action and of the way in which the P&O Princess Trustee is required to vote the Carnival Specified Numbers attaching to the P&O Princess Special Voting Share in relation to each such Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess in accordance with this Deed and the P&O Princess Articles. 2.2 Notification by P&O Princess P&O Princess agrees with Carnival SVC and Carnival that, in relation to each meeting of P&O Princess shareholders at which any resolution relating to a Joint Electorate Action is to be considered, P&O Princess shall, as soon as possible after the P&O Princess shareholders (other than the P&O Princess Trustee) entitled to vote on any such resolution Cast those votes at such shareholder meeting, deliver to Carnival SVC and Carnival in writing in accordance with clause 17.4 a report of the inspectors of election for such shareholder meeting setting forth the details in (a) below and a statement by a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess setting forth the details in (b) below: (a) how the votes were Cast (including the number of votes Cast) at the meeting of P&O Princess shareholders in relation to each such Equivalent Resolution; and (b) its calculation of the P&O Princess Specified Numbers applicable to the Carnival Special Voting Share for each Equivalent Resolution for a Joint Electorate Action and of the way in which Carnival SVC is required to vote the P&O Princess Specified Numbers attaching to the Carnival Special Voting Share in relation to each such Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of Carnival in accordance with this Deed and the Carnival Constitution. 3. NOTIFICATION OF OUTCOME ON VOTE ON CLASS RIGHTS ACTIONS 3.1 Notification by Carnival Carnival agrees with P&O Princess and the P&O Princess Trustee that, in relation to each meeting of Carnival shareholders at which any resolution or resolutions relating to a Class Rights Action is to be considered, Carnival shall, as soon as possible after the Carnival shareholders (other than Carnival SVC) entitled to vote on any such resolution Cast those votes at such shareholder meeting, deliver to the P&O Princess Trustee and P&O Princess in writing and in accordance with clause 17.4: (a) a report of the inspectors of election for such shareholder meeting setting forth how the votes were Cast (including the number of votes Cast) at the meeting of Carnival shareholders in relation to each such Equivalent Resolution; and (b) a statement by a duly authorised officer of Carnival setting forth whether or not each such Equivalent 7
Resolution or resolutions was approved by the requisite majority pursuant to the Carnival Constitution and/or Applicable Regulations. 3.2 Notification by P&O Princess P&O Princess agrees with Carnival and Carnival SVC that, in relation to each meeting of P&O Princess shareholders at which any resolution or resolutions relating to a Class Rights Action is to be considered, P&O Princess shall, as soon as possible after the P&O Princess shareholders (other than the P&O Princess Trustee) entitled to vote on any such resolution Cast those votes at such shareholder meeting, deliver to Carnival SVC and Carnival in writing and in accordance with clause 17.4: (a) a report of the inspectors of election for such shareholder meeting setting forth how the votes were Cast (including the number of votes Cast) at the meeting of P&O Princess shareholders in relation to each such Equivalent Resolution; and (b) a statement by a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess setting forth whether or not the Equivalent Resolution or resolutions were approved by the requisite majority pursuant to the P&O Princess Articles and/or Applicable Regulations. 4. ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS AND VOTING 4.1 Attendance at meetings (a) Carnival SVC agrees with P&O Princess that, at every meeting of Carnival shareholders at which any resolution relating to a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action is to be considered, Carnival SVC shall be present by its duly appointed corporate representative or by proxy or proxies. Carnival agrees to notify Carnival SVC in writing and in accordance with clause 17.4 at the time it sends notice to its shareholders of a shareholder meeting whether any resolution to be proposed at such meeting is a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action and Carnival SVC shall be entitled to rely on any such notice for the purposes of this Deed. Carnival also agrees to notify Carnival SVC in advance and in writing in accordance with clause 17.4 of the time and place at which an adjourned or postponed meeting will be held and whether any resolution to be proposed at such meeting is a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action and Carnival SVC shall be entitled to rely on any such notice for the purpose of this Deed. (b) The P&O Princess Trustee agrees with Carnival that, at every meeting of P&O Princess at which any resolution relating to a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action is to be considered, the P&O Princess Trustee shall be present by its duly appointed corporate representative or by proxy or proxies. P&O Princess agrees to notify the P&O Princess Trustee in writing and in accordance with clause 17.4 at the time it sends notice to its shareholders of a shareholder meeting whether any resolution to be proposed at such meeting is a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action and the P&O Princess Trustee shall be entitled to rely on any such notice for the purposes of this Deed. P&O Princess also agrees to notify the P&O Princess Trustee in advance and in writing in accordance with clause 17.4 of the time and place at which an adjourned or postponed meeting will be held and whether any resolution to be proposed at such meeting is a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action and Carnival SVC shall be entitled to rely on any such notice for the purpose of this Deed. 8
4.2 Vote in accordance with constitution (a) Carnival SVC agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that it shall vote the Carnival Special Voting Share in accordance with the requirements of the Carnival Constitution and this Deed. (b) The P&O Princess Trustee agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that it shall vote the P&O Princess Special Voting Share in accordance with the requirements of the P&O Princess Articles and this Deed. 4.3 Vote on Joint Electorate Action (a) Carnival SVC agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that on any resolution that relates to a Joint Electorate Action it will exercise the voting rights attached to the Carnival Special Voting Share in accordance with the reports and the statement delivered under clause 2.2. (b) The P&O Princess Trustee agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that on any resolution that relates to a Joint Electorate Action it will exercise the voting rights attached to the P&O Princess Special Voting Share in accordance with the reports and the statement delivered under clause 2.1. 4.4 Vote on Class Rights Action (a) Carnival SVC agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that where it has been notified by P&O Princess in accordance with clause 3.2 that a Class Rights Action has (pursuant to the P&O Princess Articles and/or Applicable Regulations) not been approved by the requisite majority of votes at a P&O Princess meeting of shareholders then: (i) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Majority Resolution it shall vote the Carnival Special Voting Share to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Majority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and other class of shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-laws (including the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Carnival Parallel Shareholder Meeting; and (ii) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Supermajority Resolution it shall vote the Carnival Special Voting Share to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Supermajority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and other class of shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-laws (including the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Carnival Parallel Shareholder Meeting. 9
(b) The P&O Princess Trustee agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that where it has been notified by Carnival in accordance with clause 3.1 that a Class Rights Action has (pursuant to the Carnival Constitution and/or Applicable Regulations) not been approved by the requisite majority of votes at a Carnival meeting of shareholders then: (i) if the resolution needs to be passed by an ordinary resolution, it shall vote the P&O Princess Special Voting Share to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat an ordinary resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (including the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the P&O Princess Parallel Shareholder Meeting; and (ii) if the resolution needed to be passed by a special (or extraordinary) resolution, it shall vote the P&O Princess Special Voting Share to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes (less one vote) as would be necessary to defeat a special (or extraordinary) resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (including the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the P&O Princess Parallel Shareholder Meeting. 4.5 Amendments to resolutions (a) Carnival SVC is entitled to rely on a certificate from a duly authorised officer of Carnival and a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess that for all purposes of this Deed an amendment to a resolution to approve a Joint Electorate Action is made in accordance with the Carnival Constitution and Applicable Regulations and that the resolution as amended is the Equivalent Resolution to the resolution considered at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess Such certificate shall be given in accordance with clause 17.4. (b) The P&O Princess Trustee are entitled to rely on a certificate from a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess and a duly authorised officer of Carnival that for all purposes of this Deed an amendment to a resolution to approve a Joint Electorate Action is made in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles and Applicable Regulations and that the resolution as amended is the Equivalent Resolution to the resolution considered at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of Carnival. Such certificate shall be given in accordance with clause 17.4. 10
4.6 No discretion as to voting Each of Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that it has no discretion as to how to vote the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and/or the Carnival Special Voting Share (as applicable) and that it shall only vote those shares in accordance with this Deed and in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles and/or the Carnival Constitution. 4.7 Procedural and technical resolutions Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee will be entitled to rely on a certificate given to it in writing (in accordance with clause 17.4) by the Chairman of the relevant shareholder meeting that a resolution is a procedural or technical resolution (in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles or the Carnival Constitution (as applicable)) and the Carnival Special Voting Share or the P&O Princess Special Voting Share (as applicable) will not have any votes in respect of such resolution. If a resolution is proposed for the first time during a meeting of shareholders of either P&O Princess or Carnival (whereby "proposed for the first time" means it was not set out in the notice of the relevant shareholders' meeting) and is determined by the Chairman of the relevant shareholder meeting (in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles or the Carnival Constitution (as applicable)) not to be a resolution of a procedural or technical nature then, if such resolution is to be voted on by shareholders, it will be voted on in the same way as any other Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action (as applicable) (and, for the avoidance of doubt, proper notice of such resolution will first be given to shareholders, including to the Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee). 5. DEALINGS 5.1 P&O Princess SVT Subject to clause 16.3, the P&O Princess Trustee agrees with Carnival and P&O Princess that it shall not deal with the P&O Princess Special Voting Share or any interest in (or right attaching to) such share without the prior written consent of both Carnival and P&O Princess, such consent to be in the absolute discretion of Carnival and P&O Princess. No transfer of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall be effective unless and until the transferee of such share, as consented to by Carnival and P&O Princess, has agreed to be bound by this Deed or entered into a deed on equivalent terms. Any dealing by the P&O Princess Trustee in violation of this clause 5.1 shall be null and void. 5.2 Carnival SVC Subject to clause 16.2, Carnival SVC agrees with P&O Princess and Carnival that it shall not deal with the Carnival Special Voting Share or any interest in (or right attaching to) such share without the prior written consent of both Carnival and P&O Princess, such consent to be in the absolute discretion of Carnival and P&O Princess. No transfer of the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be effective unless and until the transferee of such share, as consented to by Carnival and P&O Princess, has agreed to be bound by this Deed or entered into a deed on equivalent terms. Any Dealing by the Carnival SVC in violation of this clause 5.2 shall be null and void. 11
6. OBLIGATIONS SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE REGULATIONS The obligations of the parties under this Deed will be subject to any Applicable Regulations. The parties will use their best endeavours to remedy a situation where Applicable Regulations prevent any party from performing its obligations hereunder. 7. DEFAULT BY CARNIVAL OR P&O PRINCESS If at any time Carnival or P&O Princess defaults in the performance or observance of any obligation or other provision binding on it under or pursuant to this Deed and owed to Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee, respectively, Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee, as the case may be, shall take such actions or institute such proceedings as it may reasonably consider to be appropriate in relation to any such default and shall not be obliged to give notice of its intention to do so. 8. SUPPLY OF INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIALITY 8.1 Supply of information So long as Carnival SVC is registered as the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share and the P&O Princess Trustee is registered as the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, Carnival and P&O Princess shall each give to the P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival SVC, as the case may be, or any person approved by Carnival or P&O Princess and appointed in writing by Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee, as the case may be, such information as Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee, as the case may be, or such appointed person shall reasonably require (other than information which is of a price-sensitive nature and not generally available) for the purpose of the discharge of the powers, duties and discretions vested in Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee, as the case may be, under this Deed. All information provided by P&O Princess and Carnival under this clause 8.1 shall (if requested by Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee) be in writing and in accordance with clause 17.4 and contained in a certificate of a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess or a duly authorised officer of Carnival. 8.2 Confidentiality Each of Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall not, and will use its respective best endeavours to ensure that any person appointed in writing by it in accordance with clause 8.1 shall not divulge any information given to it pursuant to clauses 2, 3, 4.5 and 8.1 which is confidential or proprietary to the party which gave it the information, in each case, unless prior written approval is given by the party which gave the information or unless required by Applicable Regulations. If disclosure of any such information is required by Applicable Regulations, the Carnival SVC and/or the P&O Princess Trustee (as relevant) will, to the extent practicable, first consult with P&O Princess and Carnival as to the form, content and timing of such disclosure. 12
9. REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES OF CARNIVAL SVC AND P&O PRINCESS TRUSTEE 9.1 Fees and expenses Carnival shall pay or ensure that payment is made to the P&O Princess Trustee or as it shall otherwise direct, and P&O Princess shall pay or ensure that payment is made to Carnival SVC or as it shall otherwise direct, such fees and expenses as may be agreed from time to time between Carnival, P&O Princess, Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee for the performance by Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee of their obligations pursuant to this Deed. 9.2 Period of remuneration The remuneration referred to in clause 9.1 shall continue to be payable (a) by Carnival until the later of: (a) the P&O Princess Trustee ceasing to be registered as the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and (b) the termination of this Deed in accordance with clause 16; and (b) by P&O Princess until the later of (a) Carnival SVC ceasing to be registered as the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share and (b) the termination of this Deed in accordance with clause 16. 9.3 Exceptional duties In the event either Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee finds it is necessary or otherwise required to undertake any duties which would not have been reasonably contemplated in relation to the performance of its obligations and the exercise of the powers, authorities and discretions vested in it under this Deed, Carnival shall pay to P&O Princess Trustee or as it shall otherwise direct and P&O Princess shall pay to Carnival SVC or as it shall otherwise direct such special remuneration in addition to that referred to in clause 9.1 as shall be mutually agreed. 9.4 VAT and similar taxes The remuneration referred to in clause 9.1, any additional special remuneration payable under clause 9.3 shall be exclusive of any value added tax, sales tax, use tax or any similar transaction tax which shall be added at the rate applicable in the circumstances and paid by P&O Princess and/or Carnival, as the case may be. 9.5 Expenses Carnival and P&O Princess shall pay all travelling and other costs, charges and expenses including legal costs and other professional fees (including, where applicable, value added tax or any similar tax) which each of the SVEs may properly incur in relation to the performance of its obligations and the exercise of the powers, authorities and discretions vested in it under this Deed and/or any costs and expenses incurred in connection with the valid termination of this Deed and the resulting transfer in accordance with clause 16.2 or 16.3 of the Carnival Special Voting Share or the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, as the case may be or with the transfer of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share or the Carnival Special Voting Share under clause 16.4. 13
10. POWER OF CARNIVAL SVC AND P&O PRINCESS TRUSTEE 10.1 Act on advice Each of the Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee may in the proper performance of its obligations and the exercise of the powers, authorities and discretion vested in it under this Deed act on the opinion or advice of or information obtained from any lawyer, banker, valuer, accountant, transfer agent, the share registrar or inspector of election at such time of Carnival or P&O Princess or other expert, whether obtained by Carnival or P&O Princess or by Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee or otherwise, and in such case, provided that the Carnival SVC or the P&O Princess Trustee (as the case may be) shall have acted reasonably in its choice of any such person, the relevant Carnival SVCs and/or the P&O Princess Trustee (as the case may be) shall not be responsible for any losses, liabilities, costs, claims, actions, damages, expenses or demands which it may incur or which may be made against it in connection with or occasioned by so acting. Any such opinion, advice or information may be sought or obtained by electronic mail, letter, facsimile or other means of written communication. The Carnival SVCs and the P&O Princess Trustee shall not be liable for acting on any opinion, advice or information or for acting on, implementing and giving effect to any decision, determination or adjustment purporting to be conveyed by any such written communication reasonably appearing on its face to be authentic even though it contains an error or is not authentic. 10.2 Powers of Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee Each of the Carnival SVCs and the P&O Princess Trustee shall have all requisite powers, authorities and discretions as shall be necessary or appropriate to enable it to take all and any such actions as are contemplated by the provisions of this Deed and the relevant provisions of the Carnival Constitution and the P&O Princess Articles. 10.3 Act on resolution Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall not be responsible, respectively, for having acted upon or having implemented or given effect to any resolution purporting to have been passed: (a) as a resolution of Carnival at any meeting of Carnival shareholders; or (b) as a resolution of P&O Princess at any meeting of P&O Princess shareholders, minutes for which have been made and signed (or in respect of which it has been informed in accordance with this Deed by any director of Carnival or P&O Princess or the secretary of Carnival or P&O Princess or other duly authorised person that the resolution has been passed) even though it may subsequently be found that there was some defect in the constitution of the meeting or the passing of the resolution or that for any reason the resolution was not valid or binding upon the holders of the relevant shares or (as the case may be) was not in accordance with this Deed. 10.4 Validity of notices Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall be at liberty to accept a notice given under clause 17.4 signed or purporting to be signed by any director of Carnival 14
or P&O Princess or the secretary of Carnival or P&O Princess or any other duly authorised officer or person, as appropriate, and shall be at liberty to accept such certificate or notice in order to satisfy any factor or matter upon which Carnival SVC the P&O Princess Trustee may in the performance of any of its obligations and the exercise of any of the powers, authorities and discretions under this Deed (including a notification, report, statement or certificate referred to in clauses 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, 3.2, 4.1, 4.3, 4.4 or 4.5) or a statement to the effect that in the opinion of the persons so certifying any particular dealing, transaction, step or thing is expedient. Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall not be in any way bound to call for further evidence nor to verify the accuracy of the contents of such certificate, report, statement or notice nor to be responsible for any losses, liabilities, costs, damages, actions, demands or expenses or for any breach of any of the provisions of this Deed that may be occasioned by accepting or acting or relying on any such certificate, report, statement or notice. 10.5 Assumption of no breach Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall not be bound to take any steps to ascertain whether any breach of any of the provisions of this Deed has occurred and, until it has actual knowledge to the contrary, Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall be entitled to assume that no such breach has occurred. 10.6 Discretions Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Deed (including for the avoidance of doubt in clauses 4, 5 and 16), each of Carnival SVC and the P&O Princess Trustee shall, as regards all powers, authorities and discretions vested in it under this Deed, have absolute and uncontrolled discretion as to the exercise or non-exercise thereof and, provided it shall have acted honestly and reasonably, it shall be in no way responsible for any losses, costs, damages, expenses, liabilities, actions, demands or inconveniences that may result from the exercise or non-exercise thereof. 11. INDEMNITIES 11.1 Indemnity by P&O Princess Subject to clause 11.2, P&O Princess agrees with Carnival SVC to indemnify it, its directors, officers, employees, controlling persons and every attorney, manager, agent, delegate or other person appointed by it under this Deed against all liabilities and expenses properly incurred by it or such persons in the performance or purported performance of its obligations under this Deed and of any powers, authorities or discretions vested in it or such persons pursuant to this Deed and against all actions, proceedings, costs, claims, damages, expenses and demands in respect of any matter or thing done or omitted in any way relating to this Deed, including the institution by Carnival SVC of any proceedings pursuant to clause 7 in respect of any default by Carnival or P&O Princess. 11.2 Limitation to indemnities Nothing contained in this Deed shall, in any circumstance in which Carnival SVC or, as the case may be, any attorney, manager, agent, delegate or other person appointed by Carnival SVC under this Deed (collectively "Indemnified Parties") has been guilty of fraud or negligence in the performance of any of its duties under this Deed or 15
has willfully defaulted in its obligations, or has willfully breached its obligations, under this Deed, exempt such Indemnified Party or Parties from, or indemnify such Indemnified Party or Parties against, any liability for breach of contract or any liability which by virtue of any rule of law would otherwise attach to such Indemnified Party or Parties in respect of any fraud, negligence or willful default of which such Indemnified Party or Parties may be guilty in relation to their duties under this Deed. 12. ACTIVITIES For as long as Carnival SVC shall be registered as the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share and the P&O Princess Trustee shall be registered as the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, (i) the Carnival SVC Owner agrees that the only activities carried out by Carnival SVC shall be such activities as are necessary or expedient in order for Carnival SVC and (ii) the P&O Princess Trustee agrees that the only activities carried out by the P&O Princess Trustee, in its capacity as trustee, shall be such activities as are necessary or expedient in order for the P&O Princess Trustee, in each case, to perform its respective obligations and exercise its respective powers, authorities and discretions pursuant to this Deed, the P&O Princess SVT Constitution, the Carnival Constitution, the P&O Princess Articles and the Pairing Agreement among the P&O Princess Trustee, Carnival and the transfer agent named therein, as the case may be, and enforce the performance by each of Carnival and P&O Princess of its obligations under them (unless both Carnival and P&O Princess otherwise expressly agree in writing). 13. GOVERNANCE MATTERS 13.1 Members of Carnival SVC For as long as Carnival SVC is registered as the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share, the Carnival SVC Owner, Carnival and P&O Princess agree that the Carnival SVC will have only one member, being the Carnival SVC Owner, and that Carnival SVC shall maintain its status as a limited liability company under the laws of England and Wales. 13.2 Directors of Carnival SVC For as long as Carnival SVC is registered as the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share, the board of directors of the Carnival SVC shall comprise such persons as are appointed or approved by the Carnival SVC Owner. The Carnival SVC Owner shall not appoint any person as a director of the Carnival SVC who is an employee or director of either the Carnival Group or the P&O Princess Group. 13.3 The P&O Princess Trustee The Trustee of P&O Princess SVT shall initially be the P&O Princess Trustee, in accordance with the P&O Princess SVT Constitution. Carnival agrees with P&O Princess that it shall not replace the P&O Princess Trustee pursuant to Section 7.08 of the P&O Princess SVT Constitution without the prior written consent of P&O Princess. If the P&O Princess Trustee is replaced at any time in accordance with Section 7.08 of the P&O Princess SVT Constitution, the P&O Princess Trustee shall novate its rights and obligations under this Deed to the successor trustee appointed 16
thereunder, and all references to the P&O Princess Trustee in this Deed shall be deemed to be reference to such successor trustee. 14. AMENDMENTS TO THIS DEED Carnival SVC, the P&O Princess Trustee and the Carnival SVC Owner shall at any time concur with P&O Princess and Carnival in making any modifications to the provisions of this Deed which: (a) are formal or technical amendments and which Carnival and P&O Princess notify are not materially prejudicial to the interests of either Carnival or P&O Princess shareholders; (b) are necessary to correct manifest errors in this Deed or inconsistencies between provisions of this Deed or between provisions of this Deed and the Equalization Agreement; or (c) have previously been approved as a Class Rights Action, provided in each case that if such modification affects (including increasing or reducing respectively) the obligations or rights of Carnival SVC, the P&O Princess Trustee and/or the Carnival SVC Owner under this Deed or any provision affecting the performance by Carnival SVC, the P&O Princess Trustee and/or the Carnival SVC Owner of its obligations under this Deed, such modification shall require the consent of Carnival SVC, the P&O Princess Trustee and/or the Carnival SVC Owner, such consent not to unreasonably withheld or delayed. 15. DAMAGES NOT ADEQUATE REMEDY Each of Carnival SVC, Carnival, P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Trustee and the Carnival SVC Owner hereby acknowledge and agree with each other that damages would not be an adequate remedy for the breach of any provision of this Deed and, accordingly, each shall be entitled to the remedies of injunction, specific performance and other equitable remedies for any such threatened or actual breach. 16. TERMINATION 16.1 Automatic termination This Deed shall automatically terminate: (a) upon termination of the Equalization Agreement in accordance with its terms; or (b) if a resolution to terminate this Deed is approved by the shareholders of Carnival and P&O Princess as a Class Rights Action, provided that clauses 8.2, 9, 11, 16.1, 16.2, 16.3 and 16.4 shall continue and bind the parties for so long as may be necessary to give full effect to the rights and obligations arising under them and provided that clauses 8.1 and 10.4 shall continue and bind the parties for so long as Carnival SVC is registered as the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share or the P&O Princess Trustee is registered as the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share 17
16.2 Transfer of Carnival Special Voting Share Upon termination of this Deed in accordance with clause 16.1, Carnival SVC shall promptly, upon being requested to do so, transfer the Carnival Special Voting Share to such person as the Board of Carnival directs it to in writing. Pending notification, Carnival SVC shall have no obligation whatsoever in respect of the Carnival Special Voting Share or under this Deed except that Carnival SVC must not Deal with the Carnival Special Voting Share or any interest in, or right attaching to, that share other than in accordance with such notification, which is to be given within 6 months after the date of termination of this Deed and must be given in writing in accordance with clause 17.4. 16.3 Transfer of P&O Princess Special Voting Share Upon termination of this Deed in accordance with clause 16.1, the P&O Princess Trustee shall promptly, upon being requested to do so, transfer the P&O Princess Special Voting Share to such person as is notified by the Board of P&O Princess. Pending notification, the P&O Princess Trustee shall have no obligation whatsoever in respect of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share or under this Deed except that the P&O Princess Trustee must not Deal with the P&O Princess Special Voting Share or any interest in, or right attaching to, that share other than in accordance with such notification, which is to be given within 6 months after the date of termination of this Deed and must be given in writing in accordance with clause 17.4. 16.4 Replacement of the Carnival SVC Owner If given notice under clause 17.4 to do so by a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess and by a duly authorised officer of Carnival, Carnival SVC shall, within two months after receipt of such notice transfer the Carnival Special Voting Share to such person as notified to in the aforementioned notice (the "Novated Person"). Carnival SVC agrees to novate its rights and obligations under this Deed to the Novated Person, and the Carnival SVC Owner agrees to novate its rights and obligations under this Deed to such person as notified in the aforementioned notice ("New SVC Owner"). The provisions of this clause 16.4 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to any subsequent notification by a duly authorised officer of P&O Princess and by a duly authorised officer of Carnival to replace the Novated Person and the New SVC Owner. Following any such transfer, references in the Deed to the Carnival SVC shall be to the Second Novated Person and references in this Deed to the Carnival SVC Owner shall be to the New SVC Owner. 17. GENERAL 17.1 No assignment This Deed shall not be assignable by operation of law or otherwise, and any purported assignment (whether in whole or in part) in violation of this provision shall be void. 17.2 No partnership or agency This Deed is not intended to alter the status of the parties as separate, independent entities, to create a partnership, joint venture or agency relationship between the parties or their respective Subsidiaries or shareholders, or to give any party (or its respective Subsidiaries or shareholders) any legal or beneficial ownership interest in 18
the assets or income of the other parties, and they shall not be construed as having that effect. 17.3 Regulatory All parties to this Deed will co-operate with each other from time to time to ensure that all information necessary or desirable for the making of (or responding to any requests for further information with respect to) any notifications or filings made in respect of this Deed, or the transactions contemplated by this Deed, is supplied to the party dealing with such notification and filings and that they are properly, accurately and promptly made. 17.4 Notices Any notice, certificate, report or statement given under this Deed: (a) must be in writing addressed to the intended recipient at the address shown below: Carnival Corporation 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue Miami, Florida 33178-2428 Attention: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Fax: [.] with copies to Carnival Corporation 3655 N.W. 87th Avenue Miami, Florida 33178-2428 Attention: General Counsel Fax: [.] Carnival SVC Limited [.] Attention: The Company Secretary (Ref: [.]) Fax: [.] P&O Princess Cruises plc 77 New Oxford Street London WC1A 1PP UK Attention: Chief Executive Officer Fax: (+44) 20 78051240 with copies to 19
P&O Princess Cruises plc 77 New Oxford Street London WC1A 1PP UK Attention: General Counsel Fax: (+44) 20 7805 1240 [The P&O Princess Trustee] [Address] Attention: Fax: (302) [.] [The Carnival SVC Owner] [Address] Attention: The Company Secretary (Ref [.]) Fax: (+44) [.] Or to such other persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by any party pursuant to this clause 17.4. (b) must be signed by a person duly authorised by the sender, (c) Notices, certificates, reports and statements given under this Deed shall be in writing and shall be deemed given (i) when sent if sent by facsimile and promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof; or (ii) when delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient or sent by overnight delivery via a national courier service, and in each case, addressed to such person or persons in accordance with this clause 17.4. 17.5 Severability If any provision of this Deed is held to be invalid or unenforceable, then such provision shall (so far as it is invalid or unenforceable) be given no effect and shall be deemed not to be included in this Deed but without invalidating any of the remaining provisions of this Deed. The parties shall then use all reasonable endeavours to replace the invalid or unenforceable provisions by a valid and enforceable substitute provision the effect of which is as close as possible to the intended effect of the invalid or unenforceable provision. 17.6 Waivers (a) Waiver of any right arising from a breach of this Deed or of any right, power, authority, discretion or remedy arising upon default under this Deed must be in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver. (b) A failure or delay in exercise, or partial exercise, of (i) a right arising from a breach of this Deed; or 20
(ii) a right, power, authority, discretion or remedy created or arising upon default under this Deed, does not result in a waiver of that right, power, authority, discretion or remedy. (c) A party is not entitled to rely on a delay in the exercise or non-exercise of a right, power, authority, discretion or remedy arising from a breach of this Deed or on a default under this Deed as constituting a waiver of that right, power, authority, discretion or remedy. (d) A party may not rely on any conduct of another party as a defence to exercise of a right, power, authority, discretion or remedy by that other party. (e) This clause may not itself be waived except by writing. (f) No waiver by a party of a failure or failures by the other party to perform any provision of this Deed shall operate or be construed as a waiver in respect of any other or further failure whether of alike or different character. 17.7 Variation A variation of any term of this Deed must be in writing and signed by all parties to this Deed. 17.8 Further assurances Each party shall take all steps, execute all documents and do everything reasonably required by the other parties to give effect to any of the transactions contemplated by this Deed. 17.9 Counterparts This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts. All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one and the same instrument. 17.10 Third Parties Rights A person who is not a party to this Deed shall have no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 to enforce any of its terms. 17.11 Governing law and jurisdiction (a) This Deed and the relationship between the parties shall be governed by, and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the Isle of Man. (b) All of the parties agree that the courts of England are to have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes (including claims for set-off and counterclaims) which may arise in connection with the creation, validity, effect, interpretation or performance of, or the legal relationships established by, this Deed or otherwise arising in connection with this Deed, and for such purposes irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of the English courts. (c) The parties irrevocably waive any objections to the jurisdiction of any court referred to in this clause 17.11. 21
(d) The parties irrevocably consent to service of process or any other documents in connection with proceedings in any court by facsimile transmission, personal service, delivery at any address specified in this Deed or any other usual address, mail or in any other manner permitted by English law, the law of the place of service or the law of the jurisdiction where proceedings are instituted. DULY delivered as a DEED on the date inserted above 22
EXECUTED as a DEED by ) CARNIVAL CORPORATION ) by a duly authorised officer ) _________________________________ Signature _________________________________ Print name _________________________________ Office held EXECUTED as a DEED by ) CARNIVAL SVC LIMITED ) acting by two Directors/a Director and ) Secretary ) EXECUTED as a DEED by ) P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC ) acting by two Directors/a Director and ) Secretary ) 23
EXECUTED as a DEED by ) [THE P&O PRINCESS TRUSTEE], ) AS TRUSTEE OF THE P&O PRINCESS ) _______________________________ Signature _______________________________ Print name _______________________________ Office held EXECUTED as a DEED by ) [The Carnival SVC Owner] ) acting by two Directors/a Director and ) Secretary ) 24

Exhibit 99.5 AGREED FORM THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF CARNIVAL CORPORATION We the undersigned, Micky Arison, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and Arnaldo Perez, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, of Carnival Corporation, a corporation organized and existing in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Panama (the "Corporation"), do hereby certify that the Articles of Incorporation of said corporation are hereby amended and restated as follows: ARTICLE I Corporate Name The name of the Corporation is: "Carnival Corporation." ARTICLE II Duration The duration of the Corporation shall be perpetual, but it may previously be dissolved pursuant to Panamanian law. ARTICLE III Corporation Purposes The purposes of the Corporation are: (a) To make, purchase, barter, charter, acquire dominion upon or use of, operate as owner, charteror or operator, to manage, equip and fit out all kinds of ships and vessels of all types and kinds of propelling systems. (b) To make all kinds of buildings and structures related to any kind of legitimate maritime commercial business, merchandise warehousing, shipping and transportation. (c) To act as shipbroker, customs and maritime insurance broker, and to administer the properties and assets and investments that maritime trade and shipowners' business and ship exploitation may require.
(d) To act as principal and agent in all negotiations related to maritime trade to such extent as the purposes of this Corporation may permit it. (e) To solicit from the Government of the Republic of Panama or any other government where it may be necessary and through such proceedings as may be required by law, navigation licenses for ships and permits to enroll crewmen for, and port clearance of, the ships in care of the Corporation. (f) To perform transactions through negotiable instruments and real estate related to maritime trade and shipowners' business and exploitation of ships. (g) To deal in patents and improvements on patented methods related to the business of maritime trade. (h) To purchase and sell and deal in general with the shares of its own capital stock pursuant to instructions from the Board of Directors. To acquire, purchase, guarantee, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose of, deal in shares of the capital stock of, or bonds, securities or other certificates of indebtedness created by other corporations. (i) The Corporation shall have the power without any requirement to obtain prior shareholder approval to give guarantees of the indebtedness or obligations of related or unrelated persons deemed by the Board of Directors to be in furtherance of its corporate purpose and to secure any such guarantee or any other obligations by the creation of any security interest in all or any part of its property or any interest therein (and for these purposes, the corporate purposes of the Corporation shall include any and all lawful acts and activities for which corporations may be organized under the Corporation Law), and it shall not be necessary to seek or obtain the authorization of the shareholders of the Corporation for the giving of any guarantee, indemnity or security in furtherance of any of its corporate purposes. (j) To purchase, sell, lease, mortgage, set up easements and encumbrances upon real estate and in general upon all kinds of properties related to the business of the Corporation. (k) To sell, mortgage, encumber or otherwise charge its assets and to perform any and all kinds of legitimate commercial transactions and any other that may be permitted in the future pursuant to Panamanian laws. (l) To borrow money from any persons, firms, banks or corporations as may be necessary for its business and to guarantee such loans as the law may permit and to loan money secured or unsecured to any persons, firms or corporations as the law may permit and in general to engage in any legitimate commercial undertaking in any country. (m) To engage in the general business of travel and tour services, both domestic and foreign; to dispense travel and tour information and to act as agent for all transportation companies, including without limitation airline companies, passenger 2
cruise line companies, steamship companies, railroad companies, bus companies, car rental companies and any other mode of travel or transportation or touring companies, both local and foreign; to engage in the preparation of travel and tour itineraries, including without limitation hotel and motel accommodations and sightseeing; and, in general, to engage in the business of all forms and types of travel services. (n) To dispense travel and tour counseling services, sell railroad, airline, passenger cruise line, steamship and bus transportation; to sell accommodations for hotels, resorts, sightseeing and feature attractions throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and every country throughout the world; to create, plan, sell and carry through escorted vacation tours; to own, operate, lease or otherwise acquire such real and personal property suitable, useful or necessary in connection with any of the objects aforementioned; to enter into, make, perform and carry out contracts of every kind in connection with the sale and distribution of the aforementioned items or services; to acquire, use, own, lease and dispose of trademarks, copyrights and licenses. (o) To acquire, hold, use, sell, assign, lease, grant licenses in respect of, mortgage or otherwise dispose of letters patent of the United States or any foreign country, patent rights, licenses and privileges, inventions, improvements and processes, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and trade names relating or useful in connection with any business of the Corporation. (p) To carry on the business of hotel, resort, casino, restaurant, refreshment room and lodging-housekeepers, caterers for public amusements generally, hairdressers, barbers, perfumers, proprietors, laundries, reading, writing and newspaper room, libraries, places of amusements, recreation and entertainment of all kinds, sport, theatrical and musical box office proprietors, entrepreneurs and general agents, and any other business which can be conveniently carried on in connection therewith. (q) To take all such actions as the Board of Directors shall determine are necessary or desirable to carry out the transactions contemplated by the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed and the Carnival Deed of Guarantee. (r) To engage in, carry on and conduct any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the Corporation Law. The foregoing clauses shall be construed both as objects and powers, and it is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing enumeration of specific powers shall not limit or restrict in any manner the powers of the Corporation, and are in furtherance of, and in addition to, and not in limitation of the general powers conferred by the laws of the Republic of Panama. 3
ARTICLE IV Registered Agent The Registered Agent of the Corporation in Panama City, until the Board of Directors may provide otherwise, shall be the law firm of Tapia, Linares y Alfaro, Plaza 2000, Calle 50, Apartado 7412, Panama 5, Republic of Panama. ARTICLE V Capitalization The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is [2,000,000,000] registered shares comprised of [1,959,999,998] shares of nominative common stock, par value US$.01 per share ("Common Stock"), 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value US$.01 per share ("Preferred Stock"), one (1) share of special voting stock, par value US$.01 per share (such share of special voting stock, the "Carnival Special Voting Share"), and one (1) share of special stock, par value US$.01 per share (such share of special stock, the "Equalization Share"). Subject to the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation and except as otherwise provided by law, the stock of the Corporation, regardless of class, may be issued for such consideration and for such corporate purposes as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. The preferences, limitations and relative rights of the Common Stock, the Preferred Stock and the Carnival Special Voting Share are as follows: (a) Common Stock. (1) All shares of the Common Stock shall have the same rights, powers, preferences and privileges and shall rank equally, share ratably and be identical in all respects as to all matters, including rights upon liquidation and distribution of the assets of the Corporation and in respect of rights to dividends and other distributions, when and as declared. The holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled in accordance with the Equalization Agreement, to the exclusion of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of any and all series, to receive such dividends as from time to time may be declared by the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of any series of shares of Preferred Stock. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, after payment shall have been made to the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of the full amount to which they shall be entitled pursuant to the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of any series of shares of Preferred Stock, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of any and all series, to share, ratably according to the number of shares of Common Stock held by them, in all remaining assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders. (2) Subject to the provisions of any applicable law, these Articles of Incorporation or of the By-laws, with respect to the closing of the transfer 4
books or the fixing of a record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote and except as otherwise provided by law or by the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of any series of shares of Preferred Stock, the holders of outstanding shares of Common Stock shall exclusively possess voting power for the election of directors and for all other purposes, each holder of record of shares of Common Stock being entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock standing in his or her name on the books of the Corporation. (b) Preferred Stock. The Board of Directors may authorize by resolution or resolutions from time to time the issuance of one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock and fix the designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights (including, without limitation, rights respecting conversion, exchange or redemption) and the qualifications, limitations or other restrictions thereof (including restrictions respecting conversion, exchange or redemption) with respect to each such class or series of Preferred Stock, and the number of shares constituting each such class or series. Unless otherwise provided in any such resolution or resolutions, the number of shares of Preferred Stock of any such series to which such resolution or resolutions apply may be increased (but not above the total number of authorized shares of the class) or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by a resolution or resolutions likewise adopted by the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors may otherwise increase or decrease the number of shares of any such class or series to the extent permitted by the Corporation Law. Any of the voting powers, designations, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any such series of Preferred Stock may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside of the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such Preferred Stock adopted by the Board pursuant to the authority vested in it by this Article V, provided that the manner in which such facts shall operate upon the voting powers, designations, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such series of Preferred Stock is clearly and expressly set forth in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such Preferred Stock. The term "facts" as used in the next preceding sentence shall have the meaning given to it under Panamanian law. Shares of Preferred Stock of any series that have been redeemed (whether through the operation of a sinking fund or otherwise) or that if convertible or exchangeable, have been converted into or exchanged for shares of any other class or classes shall have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock of the same series and may be reissued as a part of the series of which they were originally a part or may be reclassified and reissued as part of a new series of shares of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors or as part of any other series of shares of Preferred Stock, all subject to the conditions or restrictions on issuance set forth in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of any series of shares of Preferred Stock. (c) Carnival Special Voting Share. (1) The Carnival Special Voting Share shall confer on the holder of such share the relevant rights and obligations set out in these Articles of Incorporation and the By-Laws. The Carnival Special Voting Share shall cease to confer 5
any right to attend or vote at any meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation if either the Equalization Agreement is terminated or if a resolution to terminate the SVE Special Voting Deed is approved as a Class Rights Action. (2) The Carnival Special Voting Share shall have the following voting rights: (A) In relation to a resolution of the Corporation to approve a Joint Electorate Action at any meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall carry: (i) such number of votes in favor of the resolution as were cast in favor of the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; (ii) such number of votes against the resolution as were cast against the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; and (iii) such number of abstentions as were recorded as abstentions from the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; in each case multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation is held and in each case rounded up to the nearest whole number, such votes to be cast by the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share in accordance with the above provisions. (B) In relation to a resolution of the Corporation to approve a Class Rights Action at any meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation: (i) if the Equivalent Resolution is approved by the requisite majority (as determined in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles and Applicable Regulations) of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall carry no votes; and (ii) if the Equivalent Resolution is not approved by the requisite majority (as determined in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles and Applicable Regulations) of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, and (x) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Majority Resolution, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes, representing the 6
largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Majority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and Other Voting Shares entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-Laws (including the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the meeting of the Corporation's shareholders, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution; or (y) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Supermajority Resolution, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes, representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Supermajority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and Other Voting Shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-Laws (including the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution. (C) Except as set forth above, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall not be entitled to vote on any matter submitted to the shareholders of the Corporation. (3) The rights and obligations attaching to the Carnival Special Voting Share may be amended or modified only by a resolution approved as a Class Rights Action; provided that where the proposed amendment or modification increases the obligations of the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share, such amendment or modification shall also require the consent of the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share. (4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Articles of Incorporation, the By-Laws or any other agreement, under no circumstances shall the Carnival Special Voting Share be entitled to any rights upon Liquidation and distribution of assets of the Corporation or rights with respect to dividends or other Distributions by the Corporation to its shareholders. (d) The Equalization Share. The Equalization Share shall: (1) have no rights to receive notice of, attend or vote at any meeting of the Corporation; (2) have rights to dividends as declared and paid by the Board in accordance with Article XVI; and (3) in the event of a voluntary or involuntary Liquidation, rank after all other holders of shares with respect to a Liquidation Distribution paid in accordance with Article XVII. 7
(e) Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock. All shares in the capital of Carnival carrying liquidation rights and/or voting rights acquired by any member of the P&O Princess Group shall automatically be converted on the first day that such shares are beneficially owned by a member of the P&O Princess Group into disenfranchised shares ("Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock") which will rank pari passu with all of the shares of the same class except that such shares shall not have any rights: (1) to attend or vote at any general meeting or class meeting of the Corporation, unless, as to any such shares, at the relevant date the P&O Princess Group, beneficially owns 90 per cent. or more of the outstanding shares of such class (whether or not for the purpose of such calculation any shares of such class are Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock); or (2) to receive any distributions upon Liquidation. Following the Transfer of any Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock from a member of the P&O Princess Group to a person who is not a member of the Combined Group, such Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock shall automatically be converted on the day that such shares are registered in the register of members of the Corporation into shares of the same class having liquidation rights and/or voting rights. ARTICLE VI No Preemptive Rights No holder of shares shall have any right, preemptive or other, to subscribe for or to purchase from the Corporation any of the shares of the Corporation hereinafter issued or sold. ARTICLE VII Address of Incorporators The name and mailing address of each signatory to the original Articles of Incorporation and the number of shares which each such signatory agreed to take care is as follows: No. of Shares of Name Post Office Address Common Stock Subscribed - --------------------- ------------------------------- ------------------------ Mariano J. Oteiza No. 8 Aquilino de la 1 Guardia Street Panama, R. of P. Domingo Diaz A. No. 8 Aquilino de la 1 Guardia Street Panama, R. of P. 8
ARTICLE VIII Board of Directors (a) The Board of Directors shall consist of no less than three (3), and no more than twenty-five (25) members. Within said minimum and maximum, the number shall be set forth by resolution of the stockholders or by resolution of the Board of Directors. The meetings of the Board of Directors will be held in the Republic of Panama or in any other country, and any director can be represented and vote by proxy or proxies at any and all directors' meetings. The meetings may also be held by means of telephone conference, fax or any other means of electronic communication, in which the participants have been in direct contact. Likewise, the resolutions of the Board of Directors may be adopted by minutes which are circulated for signature by the directors or their proxies in different dates and places. The Board of Directors shall have absolute control and full powers of administration on all the matters of the Corporation, being it understood that the Board of Directors is empowered to contract loans or financing in general, to grant guarantees with respect to its properties, subsidiaries, its obligations and those of third parties, and to mortgage its properties and assets, and to sell less than all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation without shareholder approval. Directors shall be elected as provided in the By-Laws. All directors shall have equal standing and have equal voting powers. (b) Each director of the Corporation shall also consent to serve, and be properly appointed, as a director of P&O Princess in order to qualify to serve as a director of the Corporation. Directors may be of any nationality and need not be residents or citizens of Republic of Panama or shareholders. No corporation may be appointed or elected a director of the Corporation. (c) The Board of Directors are authorized to operate and carry into effect the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed and the Carnival Deed of Guarantee. Subject to Applicable Regulations, nothing done by any director in good faith pursuant to such authority and obligations shall constitute a breach of the fiduciary duties of such director to the Corporation or its shareholders. In particular, the directors shall, in addition to their duties to the Corporation, be entitled to have regard to interests of the holders of the Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares as if the Corporation and P&O Princess were a single entity. (d) At all meetings of the Board of Directors the presence, in person or by proxy, of at least one-third of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business except as may be otherwise specifically provided by Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws. The act of a simple majority of the directors present in person or by proxy at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws. (e) Authority of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to exercise all rights and powers granted to or vested in the Board of 9
Directors or the Corporation under Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV and to take any action as it deems necessary or advisable to give effect to the provisions of Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV, including the right and power to interpret the provisions of Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV and to make all determinations deemed necessary or advisable to give effect to the provisions of Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Corporation shall expressly have the right to effect or procure a transfer of Carnival Common Stock (including Excess Shares and Combined Group Excess Shares) as described in Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV. In the case of ambiguity in the application of any of the provisions of Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV, the Board of Directors shall, in its absolute discretion, have the power to determine the application of such provisions with respect to any situation based on the facts known to them, including, without limitation, any rulings, regulations or waivers under, or amendments to, any Applicable Regulations or that affect provisions of the City Code that are analogous to Articles XIV and XV. All such actions, calculations, interpretations and determinations which are done or made by the Board of Directors in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Corporation and all other parties. No director shall be liable for any act or omission pursuant to these Articles XII, XIII, XIV and XV if such action was taken in good faith. Any one or more directors may act as the attorney(s) of any holder of Carnival Common Stock (including any holder of Excess Shares or Combined Group Excess Shares) with respect to the execution of documents and other actions required to be taken for the sale or transfer of Excess Shares pursuant to Article XIII or Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to Article XIV. ARTICLE IX Officers The Board of Directors, as soon as possible after the annual election of directors, may choose a Chairman of the Board, a Vice-Chairman of the Board, a President, a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Operating Officer, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and one or more Vice Presidents, all of whom shall hold their offices until their successors are chosen and qualify. More than one office may be held by the same person. The Board of Directors may from time to time choose such other officers and agents as are necessary, who shall hold their offices for such terms as are determined by the Board of Directors. Any officer or agent chosen by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office. Until the Board of Directors provides otherwise, the legal representative of the Corporation shall be the President and, in his absence, the Corporation shall be represented by the Chairman of the Board. ARTICLE X Amendments to Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws (a) Subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this Article X, any amendment to these Articles of Incorporation shall require approval as a Joint Electorate Action; 10
provided that no amendment to these Articles of Incorporation may be effected unless a majority of all votes entitled to be cast with respect thereto (including votes entitled to be cast by the Carnival Special Voting Share) have been voted in favor of such amendment at a meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation. (b) Any amendment to the Carnival Entrenched Articles shall require approval as a Class Rights Action; provided that no amendment to these Articles of Incorporation may be effected unless a majority of all votes entitled to be cast with respect thereto (including votes entitled to be cast by the Carnival Special Voting Share) have been voted in favor of such amendment at a meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation. (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amendment of these Articles of Incorporation (1) to specify or change the location of the office or registered agent of the Corporation, or (2) to make, revoke or change the designation of a registered agent, or to specify or change the registered agent, may be approved and effected by the Board of Directors without the approval of the shareholders of the Corporation or the shareholders of P&O Princess. (d) Any amendment to or repeal of the Carnival Entrenched By-Laws shall require approval as a Class Rights Action. (e) Any amendment to or repeal of any By-Law of the Corporation other than any of the Carnival Entrenched By-Laws may be approved and effected by the Board of Directors without the approval of the shareholders of the Corporation or the shareholders of P&O Princess regardless of whether such By-Law has been previously approved by the shareholders of the Corporation. (f) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article X, upon completion of a Mandatory Exchange, the Articles of Incorporation and the By-Laws shall be automatically amended without any further action of the Corporation or the shareholders of the Corporation as set forth in Appendices I and II hereto, respectively. ARTICLE XI Indemnification (a) A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation, P&O Princess or their respective shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. (b) (1) Each person (and the heirs, executors or administrators of such person) who was or is a party to or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or an officer of the Corporation or P&O Princess or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the 11
Corporation against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to the fullest extent and in the manner set forth in and permitted by the Corporation Law, and any other applicable law, as from time to time in effect. The foregoing provisions of this Article XI shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director and officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article XI and the relevant provisions of the Corporation Law and other applicable law, if any, are in effect. (2) The Corporation may, by action of the Board of Directors, provide indemnification to such of the employees and agents of the Corporation, P&O Princess or any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to such extent and to such effect as the Board of Directors shall determine to be appropriate and permitted by the Corporation Law, and any other applicable law, as from time to time in effect. (c) The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss incurred by such person in any such capacity or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article XI or under the Corporation Law or any other provision of law. (d) The rights and authority conferred in this Article XI shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may otherwise have or hereafter acquire. (e) Neither the amendment nor repeal of this Article XI nor the adoption or any provision of the Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation, nor, to the fullest extent permitted by the Corporation Law and any other applicable law, any modification or repeal of law, shall affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. (f) The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article XI shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified under subsection (b)(2) hereof, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. 12
(g) A member of the Board of Directors, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation or P&O Princess and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of the Corporation's or P&O Princess' officers or employees, or committees of the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to matters the member reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation. In discharging their duties, directors and officers, when acting in good faith, may rely upon financial statements of the Corporation or P&O Princess represented to them to be correct by the chief financial officer or the controller or other officer of the Corporation or P&O Princess having charge of its books or accounts, or stated in a written report by an independent public or certified public account or firm of such accountants fairly to reflect the financial condition of the Corporation or P&O Princess. ARTICLE XII Restrictions on Transfer (a) Restriction of Transfers and Other Events. Except as provided in section (g) hereof, from the Section 883 Amendment Date until the Restriction Termination Date: (1) no Person (other than an Existing Holder) shall Beneficially Own Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit; (2) any Transfer that, if effective, would result in any Person (other than an Existing Holder) Beneficially Owning Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer of that number of Shares which would be otherwise Beneficially Owned by such Person in excess of the Ownership Limit and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit; and (3) any Transfer of Shares that, if effective, would result in the Corporation being "closely held" within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be void ab initio as to the Transfer of that number of Shares which would cause the Corporation to be "closely held" within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such Shares. (b) Excess Shares. (1) If, notwithstanding the other provisions contained in these Articles of Incorporation, at any time from the Section 883 Amendment Date until the Restriction Termination Date, there is a purported Transfer or other event such that any Person (other than an Existing Holder) would Beneficially Own Shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, then, except as otherwise provided in section (g) hereof, such Shares which would be in excess of the Ownership Limit (rounded up to the nearest whole share), shall automatically be designated as Excess Shares (without reclassification), as further described in subsection (b)(2) hereof. The designation of such Shares as Excess Shares shall be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the Transfer or other event. If, after designation of such Shares owned directly by a Person as Excess Shares, such Person still owns Shares in excess of the applicable Ownership Limit, Shares Beneficially Owned by such Person constructively in excess of 13
the Ownership Limit shall be designated as Excess Shares until such Person does not own Shares in excess of the applicable Ownership Limit. Where such Person owns Shares constructively through one or more Persons and the Shares held by such other Persons must be designated as Excess Shares, the designation of Shares held by such other Persons as Excess Shares shall be pro rata. (2) If, notwithstanding the other provisions contained in these Articles of Incorporation, at any time from the Section 883 Amendment Date until the Restriction Termination Date, there is a purported Transfer which, if effective, would cause the Corporation to become "closely held" within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder, then, except as otherwise provided in section (g) hereof, the Shares being Transferred and which would cause, when taken together with all other Shares, the Corporation to be "closely held" within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder (rounded up to the nearest whole share) shall automatically be designated as Excess Shares (without reclassification). The designation of such Shares as Excess Shares shall be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the Transfer. If, after designation of such Shares owned directly by a Person as Excess Shares, such Person still owns Shares in excess of the applicable Ownership Limit, Shares Beneficially Owned by such Person constructively in excess of the Ownership Limit shall be designated as Excess Shares until such Person does not own Shares in excess of the applicable Ownership Limit. Where such Person owns Shares constructively through one or more Persons and the Shares held by such other Persons must be designated as Excess Shares, the designation of Shares held by such other Persons as Excess Shares shall be pro rata. (c) Remedies for Breach. If the Board of Directors or their designees shall at any time determine in good faith that a purported Transfer or other event has taken place in violation of section (a) hereof or that a Person intends to acquire or has attempted to acquire Beneficial Ownership of any Shares in violation of section (a) hereof, the Board of Directors or their designees may take such action as they deem advisable to refuse to give effect to or to prevent such Transfer or other event, including, but not limited to, refusing to give effect to such Transfer or other event on the books of the Corporation or instituting proceedings to enjoin such Transfer or other event or transaction; provided, however, that any Transfers or attempted Transfers (or, in the case of events other than a Transfer, Beneficial Ownership) in violation of section (a) hereof shall be void ab initio and automatically result in the designation and treatment described in section (b) hereof, irrespective of any action (or non-action) by the Board of Directors or their designees. (d) Notice of Restricted Transfer. Any Person who acquires or attempts to acquire Shares in violation of section (a) hereof, or any Person who is a purported transferee such that Excess Shares result under section (b) hereof, shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such Transfer, attempted Transfer or other event and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the Corporation may request in order to determine the effect, if any, of such Transfer or attempted Transfer or other event on the Corporation's status as qualifying for exemption 14
from taxation on gross income from the international operation of a ship or ships within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code. (e) Exclusion. The restrictions set forth in section (a) shall not apply to any Shares with respect to which such restrictions are prohibited pursuant to applicable provisions of the corporation laws of the Republic of Panama. (f) Remedies Not Limited. Subject to section (j) hereof, nothing contained in these Articles of Incorporation shall limit the authority of the Board of Directors to take such other action as they deem necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the Corporation's shareholders by preservation of the Corporation's status as exempt from taxation on gross income from the international operation of a ship or ships within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code and to ensure compliance with the Ownership Limit. (g) Exception. The Board of Directors upon receipt of a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of tax counsel, satisfactory to them in their sole and absolute discretion, in each case to the effect that the Corporation's status as exempt from taxation on gross income from the international operation of a ship or ships within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code will not be jeopardized or worsened, may exempt a Person (or may generally exempt any class of Persons) or any class of Shares from the Ownership Limit if the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, ascertains that such Person's (or Persons') Beneficial Ownership of Shares or the Beneficial Ownership of such class of Shares will not jeopardize or worsen the Corporation's status as exempt from taxation on gross income from the international operation of a ship or ships within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code. The Board of Directors may require representations and undertakings from such Person or Persons as are necessary to make such determination. (h) Legend. After the Section 883 Amendment Date, and prior to the Restriction Termination Date, each certificate for the Shares shall bear the following legend: The Shares represented by this certificate are subject to restrictions on transfer. Unless excepted by the Board of Directors or exempted by the terms of the Articles of Incorporation of Carnival Corporation, no Person may (1) Beneficially Own Shares in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding Shares, by value, vote or number, determined as provided in the Articles of Incorporation of Carnival Corporation, and computed with regard to all outstanding Shares and, to the extent provided by the Code, all Shares issuable under existing options and exchange rights that have not been exercised; or (2) Beneficially Own Shares which would result in the Corporation being "closely held." Unless so excepted, any acquisition of Shares and continued holding of ownership constitutes a continuous representation of compliance with the above limitations, and any Person who attempts to Beneficially Own Shares in excess of the above limitations has an affirmative obligation to notify the Corporation immediately upon such attempt. If the restrictions on transfer are violated, the transfer will be 15
void ab initio and the Shares represented hereby will be designated and treated as Excess Shares that will be held in trust. Excess Shares may not be transferred at a profit and may be purchased by the Corporation. In addition, certain Beneficial Owners must give written notice as to certain information on demand and on exceeding certain ownership levels. All terms not defined in this legend have the meanings provided in the Articles of Incorporation of Carnival Corporation. The Corporation will mail without charge to any requesting shareholder a copy of the Articles of Incorporation, including the express terms of each class and series of the authorized Shares of the Corporation, within five (5) days after receipt by the Secretary of the Corporation of a written request therefor. (i) Severabilty. If any provision of Article XII or XIII or any application of any such provision is determined to be invalid by any Panamanian court or United States federal or state court having jurisdiction over the issues, the validity of the remaining provisions shall not be affected, and other applications of such provision shall be affected only to the extent necessary to comply with the determination of such court. (j) New York Stock Exchange Transactions. Nothing in these Articles of Incorporation shall preclude the settlement of any transaction entered into through the facilities of the New York Stock Exchange. The fact that the settlement of any transaction occurs shall not negate the effect of any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation and any transferee in such a transaction shall be subject to all the provisions and limitations set forth in these Articles of Incorporation. (k) Owners Required to Provide Information. After the Amendment Date and prior to the Restriction Termination Date: (1) Every Beneficial Owner of three percent (3%) or more, by vote, value or number, or such lower percentages as required pursuant to regulations under the Code, of the outstanding Shares shall promptly after becoming such a three percent (3%) Beneficial Owner, give written notice to the Corporation stating the name and address of such Beneficial Owner, the general ownership structure of such Beneficial Owner, the number of shares of each class of Shares Beneficially Owned, and a description of how such Shares are held. (2) Each Person who is a Beneficial Owner of Shares and each Person (including the shareholder of record) who is holding Shares for a Beneficial Owner shall provide on demand to the Corporation such information as the Corporation may request from time to time in order to determine the Corporation's status as exempt from taxation on gross income from the international operation of a ship or ships within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code and to ensure compliance with the Ownership Limit. ARTICLE XIII Excess Shares (a) Ownership in Trust. Upon any purported Transfer or other event that results in Excess Shares pursuant to section (b) of Article XII hereof, such Excess Shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Excess Share Trustee, as trustee of the Excess Share Trust, for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the Transfer or other event. 16
Excess Shares so held in trust shall be issued and outstanding shares of the Corporation. The Purported Record Transferee or Purported Record Holder shall have no rights in such Excess Shares. The Purported Beneficial Transferee or Purported Beneficial Holder shall have no rights in such Excess Shares except as provided in section (c) or (e) of Article XIII. The Excess Share Trustee may resign at any time so long as the Corporation shall have appointed a successor trustee. The Excess Share Trustee shall, from time to time, designate one or more charitable organization or organizations as the Charitable Beneficiary. (b) Dividend Rights. Excess Shares shall be entitled to the same dividends determined as if the designation of Excess Shares had not occurred. Any dividend or distribution paid prior to the discovery by the Corporation that the Shares have been designated as Excess Shares shall be repaid to the Excess Share Trust upon demand. Any dividend or distribution declared but unpaid shall be paid to the Excess Share Trust. All dividends received or other income earned by the Excess Share Trust shall be paid over to the Charitable Beneficiary. (c) Rights Upon Liquidation. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the Purported Beneficial Transferee or Purported Beneficial Holder shall receive, for each Excess Share, the lesser of (1) the amount per share of any distribution made upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up or (2) (x) in the case of Excess Shares resulting from a purported Transfer, the price per share of the Shares in the transaction that created such Excess Shares (or, in the case of the devise, gift or other similar event, the Market Price of such Shares on the date of such devise, gift or other similar event) or (y) in the case of Excess Shares resulting from an event other than a purported Transfer, the Market Price of the Shares on the date of such event. Any amounts received in excess of such amount shall be paid to the Charitable Beneficiary. (d) Voting Rights. The Excess Share Trustee shall be entitled to vote the Excess Shares on behalf of the Charitable Beneficiary on any matter. Subject to Panamanian law, any vote cast by a Purported Record Transferee with respect to the Excess Shares prior to the discovery by the Corporation that the Excess Shares were held in trust will be rescinded ab initio; provided, however, that if the Corporation has already taken irreversible action with respect to a merger, reorganization, sale of all or substantially all the assets, dissolution of the Corporation or other action by the Corporation, then the vote cast by the Purported Record Transferee shall not be rescinded. The purported owner of the Excess Shares will be deemed to have given an irrevocable proxy to the Excess Share Trustee to vote the Excess Shares for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, until the Corporation has received notification that Excess Shares have been transferred into an Excess Share Trust, the Corporation shall be entitled to rely on its share transfer and other shareholder records for purposes of preparing lists of shareholders entitled to vote at meetings, determining the validity and authority of proxies and otherwise conducting votes of shareholders. 17
(e) Restrictions on Transfer; Designation of Excess Share Trust Beneficiary. Excess Shares shall be transferable only as provided in this section (e) of Article XIII. At the direction of the Board of Directors, the Excess Share Trustee shall transfer the Excess Shares held in the Excess Share Trust to a Person or Persons (including, without limitation, the Corporation under section (f) below) whose ownership of such Shares shall not violate the Ownership Limit or otherwise cause the Corporation to become "closely held" within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code within 180 days after the later of (i) the date of the Transfer or other event which resulted in Excess Shares and (ii) the date the Board of Directors determines in good faith that a Transfer or other event resulting in Excess Shares has occurred, if the Corporation does not receive a notice of such Transfer or other event pursuant to section (d) hereof. If such a transfer is made, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary shall terminate, the designation of such Shares as Excess Shares shall thereupon cease and a payment shall be made to the Purported Beneficial Transferee, Purported Beneficial Holder and/or the Charitable Trustee as described below. If the Excess Shares resulted from a purported Transfer, the Purported Beneficial Transferee shall receive a payment from the Excess Share Trustee that reflects a price per share for such Excess Shares equal to the lesser of (A) the price per share received by the Excess Share Trustee and (B) (x) the price per share such Purported Beneficial Transferee paid for the Shares in the purported Transfer that resulted in the Excess Shares, or (y) if the Purported Beneficial Transferee did not give value for such Excess Shares (through a gift, devise or other similar event) a price per share equal to the Market Price of the Shares on the date of the purported Transfer that resulted in the Excess Shares. If the Excess Shares resulted from an event other than a purported Transfer, the Purported Beneficial Holder shall receive a payment from the Excess Share Trustee that reflects a price per share of Excess Shares equal to the lesser of (A) the price per share received by the Excess Share Trustee and (B) the Market Price of the Shares on the date of the event that resulted in Excess Shares. Prior to any transfer of any interest in the Excess Share Trust, the Corporation must have waived in writing its purchase rights, if any, under section (f) below. Any funds received by the Excess Share Trustee in excess of the funds payable to the Purported Beneficial Holder or the Purported Beneficial Transferee shall be paid to the Charitable Beneficiary. The Corporation shall pay the costs and expenses of the Excess Share Trustee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the provisions of this section (e) are determined to be void or invalid by virtue of any legal decision, statute, rule or regulation, then the Purported Beneficial Transferee or Purported Beneficial Holder of any shares of Excess Shares may be deemed, at the option of the Corporation, to have acted as an agent on behalf of the Corporation in acquiring or holding such Excess Shares and to hold such Excess Shares on behalf of the Corporation. (f) Purchase Right in Excess Shares. Excess Shares shall be deemed to have been offered for sale by the Excess Share Trustee to the Corporation, or its designee, at a price per Excess Share equal to (i) in the case of Excess Shares resulting from a purported Transfer, the lesser of (A) the price per share of the Shares in the transaction that created such Excess Shares (or, in the case of devise, gift or other similar event, the Market Price of the Shares on the date of such devise, gift or other similar event), or (B) the lowest Market Price of the class of Shares which resulted in the Excess 18
Shares at any time after the date such Shares were designated as Excess Shares and prior to the date the Corporation, or its designee, accepts such offer or (ii) in the case of Excess Shares resulting from an event other than a purported Transfer, the lesser of (A) the Market Price of the Shares on the date of such event or (B) the lowest Market Price for Shares which resulted in the Excess Shares at any time from the date of the event resulting in such Excess Shares and prior to the date the Corporation, or its designee, accepts such offer. The Corporation shall have the right to accept such offer for a period of ninety (90) days after the later of (i) the date of the Transfer or other event which resulted in such Excess Shares and (ii) the date the Board of Directors determines in good faith that a Transfer or other event resulting in Excess Shares has occurred, if the Corporation does not receive a notice of such Transfer or other event pursuant to section (d) hereof. (g) Underwritten Offerings. The Ownership Limit shall not apply to the acquisition of Shares or rights, options or warrants for, or securities convertible into, Shares by an underwriter in a public offering or placement agent in a private offering, provided that the underwriter makes a timely distribution of such Shares or rights, options or warrants for, or securities convertible into, Shares. ARTICLE XIV Combined Group Ownership Restrictions (a) Triggering Acquisition. From the Amendment Date: Subject to section (b) below, if any person (an "Acquiring Person") acquires additional Ordinary Shares or voting control over additional Ordinary Shares and, after giving effect to such acquisition (or, if the Corporation is subject to the City Code, acquires Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares) such Acquiring Person, whether solely or together with any person or persons Acting in Concert with such Acquiring Person, holds or exercises voting control over Ordinary Shares which equal or are in excess of the Combined Group City Code Limit (such acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares, a "Triggering Acquisition"), then all (x) Ordinary Shares held by the Acquiring Person or over which the Acquiring Person exercises voting control, and (y) Ordinary Shares held by any party or parties Acting in Concert with such Acquiring Person or over which any party or parties Acting in Concert with such Acquiring Person exercise(s) voting control (the "Acquiring Person Attributable Shares") shall automatically be designated as "Combined Group Restricted Shares" for the purposes of Articles XIV and XV. A Triggering Acquisition can occur more than once, and the provisions set forth in Articles XIV and XV shall apply to every separate Triggering Acquisition or series of Triggering Acquisitions. (b) Qualifying Takeover Offer. Notwithstanding the provisions of section (a) above, if: (1) prior to or simultaneously with a Triggering Acquisition, such Acquiring Person has made a Qualifying Takeover Offer (and, in the event that the Qualifying Takeover Offer was made prior to the Triggering Acquisition, such 19
Qualifying Takeover Offer has not been withdrawn, abandoned or terminated prior to or simultaneously with the Triggering Acquisition), or (2) the circumstances described in clause (1) have not occurred, and such Acquiring Person (x) within 10 days after the date on which the applicable Triggering Acquisition occurs, makes a binding public announcement to commence a Qualifying Takeover Offer, and (y) within 28 days after making the public announcement referred to in the preceding clause (x), commences a Qualifying Takeover Offer, then the Acquiring Person Attributable Shares shall not be designated Combined Group Restricted Shares for the purposes of Articles XIV and XV hereof until the earliest to occur (if at all) of (i) a withdrawal, abandonment or termination of such Qualifying Takeover Offer other than in accordance with its terms, or (ii) any amendment, modification or supplement to the terms of either offer comprising the Qualifying Takeover Offer such that, as amended, modified or supplemented, the offers would not constitute a Qualifying Takeover Offer; provided, that immediately upon the earliest to occur of the events described in clause (i) or (ii), such Acquiring Person Attributable Shares shall be automatically designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares. (c) Determination of Combined Group Excess Shares. In the event that any Ordinary Shares are designated Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to section (a) or (b): (1) If the Combined Group Restricted Shares (A) consist entirely of Carnival Common Stock, and (B) are held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, then all Carnival Common Stock held by such person or over which such person exercises voting control which cause the Combined Group City Code Limit to be equaled or exceeded, shall automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Article XV. (2) If the Combined Group Restricted Shares (A) consist of both Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, and (B) are held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, then: (A) if, after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, (x) the number of votes represented by such Carnival Common Stock that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action exceeds (y) the number of votes represented by such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action, then all Carnival Common Stock held by such person or over which such person exercises voting control which cause the Combined Group City Code Limit to be equaled or exceeded shall automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Article XV; and (B) if, after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, (x) the number of votes represented by such Carnival Common Stock that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action is less than or equal to (y) the number of 20
votes represented by such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action, such Carnival Common Stock shall be automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Article XV only to the extent that such Carnival Common Stock would give such person ownership or voting control equal to or in excess of the Combined Group City Code Limit, as if determined without regard to any P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held or subject to the voting control of such person. (3) If the Combined Group Restricted Shares are held by or subject to the voting control of two or more persons Acting in Concert, where: (A) all or a part of such Combined Group Restricted Shares would all have been designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to subsection (c)(1) hereof had they been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person; or (B) all or a part of such Combined Group Restricted Shares would have been designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to subsection (c)(2) hereof had they been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, then such automatic designation as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Article XV shall be made with respect to the same number of Carnival Common Stock held by or subject to the voting control of such persons Acting in Concert as if they had been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, such designation to be made on a pro rata basis based on the number of Carnival Common Stock each such person holds or over which each such person exercises voting control. (d) Notice. (1) Any person whose acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares would or does result in any Ordinary Shares being constituted as Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to section (a) or (b) hereof shall immediately give written notice to the Corporation of such event and shall provide to the Corporation such other information as the Corporation may request in order to determine (i) whether any acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares has resulted or could result in any Ordinary Shares being designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares under this Article XIV, and/or (ii) to what extent any Combined Group Restricted Shares should be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to section (c) hereof. (2) The Corporation will, as soon as practicable after the Board of Directors has knowledge thereof, notify in writing any Person who holds any Combined Group Restricted Shares; provided that failure by the Corporation to give any such notification shall in no way invalidate any of the provisions of Article XIV and XV. Upon receipt of such notice from the Corporation, such Person shall immediately provide 21
to the Corporation such information described in subsection (d)(1) hereof as the Corporation shall request. (e) Exclusion. The restrictions set forth in Article XIV shall not apply to: (1) any Carnival Common Stock to the extent that such restrictions are prohibited pursuant to Applicable Regulations. (2) any acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares by any member of the Arison Group if, as a result, the aggregate of the voting rights of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and of the Carnival Common Stock held by the Arison Group and of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and of the Carnival Common Stock over which the Arison Group, after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, exercises voting control does not thereby (i) increase by one per cent. or more in any period of twelve consecutive months and (ii) after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, equal or exceed forty per cent. of the aggregate voting rights attached to the whole of the issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the outstanding Carnival Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, (x) a shareholder shall not be deemed to have acquired Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares if solely as a result of a share buyback, cancellation or reduction of share capital, disenfranchisement of voting rights or any other procedure which has the effect of reducing the share capital or the voting share capital of the Corporation or of P&O Princess the percentage holding of such person is increased; and (y) the transfer of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares among members of the Arison Group shall not be deemed to be a Triggering Acquisition. (3) any acquisition pursuant to a Mandatory Exchange. (4) any acquisition by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries from time to time of any Ordinary Shares. (5) any acquisition by any member of the P&O Princess Group of any Ordinary Shares. (f) Legend. After the Amendment Date, each certificate for Carnival Common Stock shall bear the following legend: The shares represented by this certificate are subject to certain restrictions on ownership of shares of Carnival Corporation and P&O Princess Cruises plc. Under the terms of the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, if any person acquires Carnival Common Stock and/or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or voting control over such shares, and after giving effect to such acquisition, such person, together with any person or persons Acting in Concert with such acquiring person, holds or exercises voting control over Carnival Common Stock and/or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares which is equal to or in excess of such number of 22
shares which, in aggregate, represent the right to cast 30% or more of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action, such shares which cause that ownership limit to be equaled or exceeded may be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares. In addition, any additional acquisition of Carnival Common Stock and/or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares by a person that, together with any person or persons Acting in Concert, holds or has voting control over Carnival Common Stock and/or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares representing the right to cast not less than 30% and not more than 50% of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action, may result in certain shares being designated as Combined Group Excess Shares. Any Carnival Common Stock that are designated as Combined Group Excess Shares will be transferred to a trustee, and the prior holder thereof will have no right to vote such shares or receive dividends or other distributions with respect thereto. A person may exceed the ownership limits described above if such person makes a Qualifying Takeover Offer with respect to all Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. Holders may be required to provide written notice and other information to the Corporation if such ownership levels are equaled or exceeded. The foregoing is only a summary of the applicable restrictions and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation. The Corporation will mail without charge to any requesting shareholder of the Corporation a copy of the Articles of Incorporation, within five (5) days after receipt by the Secretary of the Corporation of a written request therefor. All terms not defined in this legend have the meanings provided in the Articles of Incorporation of Carnival Corporation. (g) Severability. If any provision of Articles XIV or XV or any application of any such provision is determined to be invalid by any Panamanian court or United States federal or state court having jurisdiction over the issues, the validity of the remaining provisions shall not be affected, and other applications of such provision shall be affected only to the extent necessary to comply with the determination of such court. (h) New York Stock Exchange Transactions. Nothing in these Articles of Incorporation shall preclude the settlement of any transaction entered into through the facilities of the New York Stock Exchange. The fact that the settlement of any transaction occurs shall not negate the effect of any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation and any transferee in such a transaction shall be subject to all the provisions and limitations set forth in these Articles of Incorporation. ARTICLE XV Combined Group Excess Shares (a) Ownership in Trust. Upon the designation of any Carnival Common Stock as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to section (c) of Article XIV hereof, such Combined Group Excess Shares shall be transferred by or on behalf of the Combined Group Excess Share Holder to the Excess Share Trustee, as trustee of the Excess Share Trust, for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. Until such transfer to 23
the Excess Share Trustee, the Combined Group Excess Shares shall be held by the Combined Group Excess Share Holder in trust for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary in accordance with the terms of these Articles of Incorporation. From the date that such shares of Carnival Common Stock are designated as Combined Group Excess Shares, the Combined Group Excess Share Holder shall have no rights in such Combined Group Excess Shares, except as provided in section (c), (e) or (f) below. The Excess Share Trustee may resign at any time so long as the Corporation shall have appointed a successor trustee. The Excess Share Trustee shall, from time to time, designate one or more charitable organization or organizations as the Charitable Beneficiary. More than one Excess Share Trustee may be appointed to hold the Combined Group Excess Shares in trust for one or more Charitable Beneficiaries. (b) Dividend Rights. Combined Group Excess Shares shall be entitled to the same dividends and other distributions determined as if the designation of Combined Group Excess Shares had not occurred. Any dividend or distribution made or paid on or after the date such shares of Carnival Common Stock are designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares and prior to the designation of such shares of Carnival Common Stock as Combined Group Excess Shares shall be repaid to the Excess Share Trust upon demand. Any dividend or distribution declared but unpaid or not made shall be paid to the Excess Share Trust. All dividends received or other income earned by the Excess Share Trust shall be paid over to the Charitable Beneficiary. (c) Rights Upon Liquidation. Notwithstanding the fact that Combined Group Excess Shares are held in trust for a Charitable Beneficiary, upon Liquidation of the Corporation, the Combined Group Excess Share Holder shall receive (if it has not already received consideration for such shares pursuant to section (e) or (f) below), for each Combined Group Excess Share, the amount per share of any distribution made upon Liquidation with respect to Carnival Common Stock generally, less any costs and expenses incurred by the Corporation, the Excess Share Trustee and the Charitable Beneficiary in connection with the transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares to the Excess Share Trustee and the holding of such shares by the Excess Share Trustee. (d) Voting Rights. (1) The Excess Share Trustee shall be entitled, but shall not be required, to vote the Combined Group Excess Shares on behalf of the Charitable Beneficiary on any matter. Subject to Panamanian law, any vote cast by a Combined Group Excess Share Holder with respect to the Combined Group Excess Shares prior to the designation of such shares as Combined Group Restricted Shares will be rescinded ab initio; provided, however, that if the Corporation has already taken irreversible action with respect to a merger, reorganization, sale of all or substantially all the assets, dissolution of the Corporation or other action by the Corporation, then the vote cast by the Combined Group Excess Share Holder shall not be rescinded. The purported owner of the Combined Group Excess Shares will be deemed to have given an irrevocable proxy to the Excess Share Trustee to vote the Combined Group Excess Shares for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. 24
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, until the Corporation has received notification that Combined Group Excess Shares have been transferred into an Excess Share Trust, the Corporation shall be entitled to rely on its share transfer and other shareholder records for purposes of preparing lists of shareholders entitled to vote at meetings, determining the validity and authority of proxies and otherwise conducting votes of shareholders. (e) Transfer of Combined Group Excess Shares. (1) Combined Group Excess Shares shall be transferable only as provided in this section (e). At the direction of the Board of Directors, the Excess Share Trustee shall transfer the Combined Group Excess Shares held in the Excess Share Trust to a person or persons (including, without limitation, the Corporation under section (f) below) whose ownership of such Carnival Common Stock would not result in a designation of any Carnival Common Stock as Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to section (a) or (b) of Article XIV, within 180 days after the later of (i) the date of the event that resulted in such shares being designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to section (a) or (b) of Article XIV, and (ii) the date that the Board of Directors determines or is notified that an event resulting in Combined Group Restricted Shares has occurred. If such a transfer is made, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary shall terminate, the designation of such Carnival Common Stock as Combined Group Excess Shares shall thereupon cease and a payment shall be made to the Combined Group Excess Share Holder as described below. The Combined Group Excess Share Holder shall receive a payment from the Excess Share Trustee that reflects a price per share of Combined Group Excess Shares equal to the price per share received by the Excess Share Trustee upon such transfer, less any costs and expenses incurred by the Corporation, the Excess Share Trustee upon such transfer and the Charitable Beneficiary in connection with the transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares to the Excess Share Trustee, the holding of such shares by the Excess Share Trustee and the transfer of such shares in accordance with this section (e). (2) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the provisions of this section (e) are determined to be void or invalid by virtue of any applicable law, then the Combined Group Excess Share Holder may be deemed, at the option of the Corporation, to have acted as an agent on behalf of the Corporation in acquiring or holding such Combined Group Excess Shares and to hold such Combined Group Excess Shares on behalf of the Corporation. (f) Purchase Right in Combined Group Excess Shares. Combined Group Excess Shares shall be deemed to have been offered for sale by the Excess Share Trustee to the Corporation, or its designee, at a price per Combined Group Excess Share equal to the Market Price of the Carnival Common Stock on the date that the Corporation acquires the Combined Group Excess Shares, less any costs and expenses incurred by the Corporation, the Excess Share Trustee and the Charitable Beneficiary in connection with the transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares to the Excess Share Trustee, the holding of such shares by the Excess Share Trustee and the transfer of such shares in accordance with this section (f). The Corporation shall have the right to accept such offer 25
for a period of ninety (90) days after the later of (i) the date of the event that resulted in such shares being designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to section (a) or (b) of Article XIV, and (ii) the date the Board of Directors determines in good faith that an event resulting in Combined Group Restricted Shares has occurred, if the Corporation does not receive a notice of such Transfer or other event pursuant to section (d) of Article XIV. (g) Underwritten Offerings. The provisions of Articles XIV and XV shall not apply to the acquisition of Carnival Common Stock or rights, options or warrants for, or securities convertible into, Carnival Common Stock by an underwriter in a public offering or placement agent in a private offering; provided, that the underwriter or placement agent makes a timely distribution of such Carnival Common Stock or rights, options or warrants for, or securities convertible into, Carnival Common Stock such that, after the distribution, such underwriter or placement agent does not hold or exercise voting control over Ordinary Shares equal to or in excess of the Combined Group City Code Limit. (h) Applicability of Ownership Limit and Combined Group City Code Limit. Notwithstanding anything in these Articles to the contrary, in the event of any occurrence that results in Carnival Common Stock being designated as both Excess Shares pursuant to Article XII and Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to Article XIV, such Shares shall be designated as Excess Shares and not Combined Group Excess Shares. (i) Voting Control. For purposes of Articles XIV and XV: (i) references to holding or acquiring shares will also be deemed to include holding or acquiring voting control over shares; (ii) a person will be deemed to have voting control over shares if such person has the power to direct the voting of such shares; (iii) a person will be deemed to acquire shares upon the occurrence of any event which results in such person Acting in Concert with another person with respect to such other person's shares; and (iv) for the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of calculating the voting power held by a person, any voting power represented by the P&O Princess Special Voting Share or the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be ignored. ARTICLE XVI Dividends and Distributions (a) Subject to the Equalization Agreement and the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, the Corporation shall not pay or make any Distribution in cash unless P&O Princess also pays or makes a Distribution in cash at approximately the same time and the ratio of the Equalized Distribution Amount so paid or made by the Corporation to the Equalized Distribution Amount so paid or made by P&O Princess (converted, if applicable, at the Applicable Exchange Rate for such Distributions and rounded to five decimal places) equals the Equalization Ratio in effect on the Distribution Determination Date for such Distributions (each, an "Equivalent Distribution"). 26
(b) The Corporation shall not declare or otherwise become obligated to pay or make a Distribution in cash unless (i) on the date on which such declaration is made or such obligation is created, P&O Princess has sufficient Distributable Reserves to make an Equivalent Distribution with respect to such Distribution or (ii) the Corporation agrees to pay, and does pay, to P&O Princess (before P&O Princess pays or makes such Distribution) the minimum amount required by P&O Princess so that it will have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make such an Equivalent Distribution. Notwithstanding compliance with the preceding sentence, if P&O Princess shall have declared or otherwise become obligated to pay or make an Equivalent Distribution and does not have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make such Equivalent Distribution when due, then the Corporation shall pay to P&O Princess the minimum amount required by P&O Princess so that P&O Princess will have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make such Equivalent Distribution; provided, however, that if the Corporation does not have sufficient Distributable Reserves to pay or make in full both the Equivalent Distribution that it declared or became obligated to make and the payment required by this sentence, then (i) the Corporation shall only pay or make the portion of that Equivalent Distribution (and any related payment that would have been required by this sentence in respect of such portion if it were the entire Equivalent Distribution that the Corporation had declared or became obligated to make) that it can make out of its Distributable Reserves, and (ii) P&O Princess shall only pay or make the portion of its Equivalent Distribution that it can make out of its Distributable Reserves following receipt of such payment. (c) For purposes of section (b) above, any amount the Corporation is required to pay to P&O Princess shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax credits of, the Corporation and P&O Princess with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment may be made on the Equalization Share, if any, issued by the Corporation if both the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board deem it appropriate. (d) The Board of Directors shall: (1) insofar as is practicable in relation to any proposed cash Distribution, cooperate with the P&O Princess Board to agree the amount of the Equivalent Distribution to be paid by the Corporation and P&O Princess; (2) determine to pay or recommend to pay Equivalent Distributions at Board of Directors meetings convened as close in time to those similarly convened by the P&O Princess Board as is practicable; (3) cooperate with the P&O Princess Board to announce and pay Equivalent Distributions simultaneously or as close in time as practicable; (4) ensure that the record dates for receipt of the Equivalent Distribution, in respect of the Corporation and P&O Princess, are on the same date; and 27
(5) generally coordinate with the P&O Princess Board the timing of all other aspects of the payment or making of Equivalent Distributions. ARTICLE XVII Liquidation (a) In the event of a voluntary or involuntary Liquidation of the Corporation, the Corporation will, subject to subsection (b) below, make such payments or take such other actions required to ensure that the holders of Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares would, had each of the Corporation and P&O Princess gone into Liquidation on the same date, be entitled to receive a Liquidation Distribution which is equivalent on a per share basis in accordance with the Equalization Ratio then in effect and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but disregarding any shareholder Tax or Tax Benefit. (b) To establish the amount payable under section (a) above, each of the Corporation and P&O Princess will determine the amount of assets (if any) it will have available for distribution in a Liquidation on the date of the Liquidation (or notional date of Liquidation) to holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the case may be, after payment of all debts and other financial obligations, including any Tax costs associated with the realization of any assets on a Liquidation and any payments due with respect to any securities ranking in preference to the Carnival Common Stock or the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the case may be (each such amount, the "Net Assets"). To the extent that the Net Assets of the Corporation or P&O Princess would enable such company to make a Liquidation Distribution to the holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the case may be, that is greater than the Liquidation Distribution that the other company could pay from its Net Assets to the holders of its Ordinary Shares, adjusting such comparative Liquidation Distribution in accordance with the Equalization Ratio then in effect and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but disregarding any shareholder Tax (including any withholding Tax required to be deducted by the company concerned) or Tax Benefit, then, subject to subsection (c) below, such company will make a balancing payment (or take any other action described in subsection (d) below) in such amount as will ensure that both companies can make equivalent Liquidation Distributions to the holders of their Ordinary Shares in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but ignoring any shareholder Tax (including any withholding Tax required to be deducted by the company concerned) or Tax Benefit; provided that neither the Corporation nor P&O Princess need make a balancing payment (or take any other action) as described in this subsection (b) if it would result in neither the holders of Carnival Common Stock nor the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares being entitled to receive any Liquidation Distribution at all. (c) For purposes of subsection (b) above, any amount a company is required to pay the other company shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax credits, losses or deductions of, the Corporation and P&O Princess with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment 28
may be made on the Equalization Share, if any, issued by the paying party if both the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board deem it appropriate. (d) In giving effect to the principles regarding a Liquidation of the Corporation and/or P&O Princess described above, the Corporation shall take such action as may be required to give effect to such principles, which may include: (i) making a payment (of cash or in specie) to P&O Princess in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement; (ii) issuing shares (which may include the Equalization Share) to P&O Princess or to holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and making a distribution or return on such shares; or (iii) taking any other action that the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board shall both consider appropriate to give effect to such principles provided that any action other than a payment of cash by one company to the other company shall require the prior approval of both the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board. ARTICLE XVIII Pairing (a) For so long as the P&O Princess SVT Shares and the Carnival Common Stock remain outstanding: (i) the P&O Princess SVT Shares and the shares of Carnival Common Stock shall not be represented by separate instruments but shall be represented by certificates representing the shares of Carnival Common Stock, which shall also represent the P&O Princess SVT Shares; (ii) each share of Carnival Common Stock shall not be transferred without the corresponding P&O Princess SVT Share; and (iii) upon each issuance of additional shares of Carnival Common Stock by the Corporation, once the P&O Princess Trustee authorizes and issues a number of additional P&O Princess SVT Shares to the Corporation equal to the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock to be issued by the Corporation, the Corporation shall cause the shares of Carnival Common Stock to be issued together with the P&O Princess SVT Shares, which P&O Princess SVT Shares shall be represented by the certificates representing such shares of Carnival Common Stock. (b) Each certificate representing shares of Carnival Common Stock issued after the Amendment Date shall: 29
(i) subject to the other provisions of this Article XVIII, take the form of the certificate representing shares of Carnival Common Stock as of immediately prior to the Amendment Date; (ii) bear the following legend: "THIS CERTIFICATE ALSO REPRESENTS A NUMBER OF SHARES OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST ("TRUST SHARES") IN THE P&O PRINCESS SPECIAL VOTING TRUST, A TRUST FORMED UNDER THE LAWS OF [____________] ("P&O PRINCESS TRUST"), EQUAL TO THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OF CARNIVAL CORPORATION (THE "CARNIVAL COMMON STOCK") REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE. THE TRUST SHARES EACH REPRESENT A FRACTIONAL, UNDIVIDED INTEREST IN THE TRUST PROPERTY (INCLUDING A SPECIAL VOTING SHARE ISSUED BY P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC) THAT IS HELD IN THE P&O PRINCESS TRUST. THE TRUST SHARES ARE REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF A SPECIAL VOTING TRUST AGREEMENT ESTABLISHING P&O PRINCESS TRUST, DATED AS OF [ ], 2003 BETWEEN CARNIVAL CORPORATION AND [ ], AS TRUSTEE (THE "SPECIAL VOTING TRUST AGREEMENT") AND A PAIRING AGREEMENT AMONG CARNIVAL CORPORATION, P&O PRINCESS TRUST AND [TRANSFER AGENT], DATED AS OF [ ], 2003 (THE "PAIRING AGREEMENT"), AND THE TRUST SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY ONLY BE TRANSFERRED TOGETHER WITH THE CARNIVAL COMMON STOCK PURSUANT TO THE PAIRING AGREEMENT. THE TRUST AND THE TRUST SHARES ARE SUBJECT TO AND THE TRUST SHARES ARE ISSUED PURSUANT TO, THE SPECIAL VOTING TRUST AGREEMENT. BY ACCEPTING THE TRUST SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE, THE HOLDER OF THIS CERTIFICATE AGREES TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF THE SPECIAL VOTING TRUST AGREEMENT. COPIES OF THE PAIRING AGREEMENT AND THE SPECIAL VOTING TRUST AGREEMENT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM CARNIVAL CORPORATION BY CONTACTING [APPROPRIATE CARNIVAL CONTACT PERSON]"; and (iii) be in a form that complies with all Applicable Regulations. (c) Upon the conversion or exercise of any securities convertible into shares of Carnival Common Stock or any rights, options or warrants to purchase shares of Carnival Common Stock (collectively, "Derivative Securities"), which were issued by the Corporation prior to the Amendment Date, once the P&O Princess Trustee has authorized and issued to the Corporation a number of the P&O Princess Trustee Shares equal to the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock the exercising or converting holder of such 30
Derivative Securities is entitled to receive upon such exercise or conversion, the Corporation shall issue to the exercising or converting holder of such Derivative Securities a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that such holder is entitled to receive upon such exercise or conversion, which certificate or certificates shall also represent an equivalent number of P&O Princess SVT Shares in accordance with the terms of the Pairing Agreement and of the P&O Princess SVT Agreement. (d) After the Amendment Date, after the P&O Princess Trustee has taken such action (including, without limitation, the authorization and issuance of additional P&O Princess SVT Shares to the Corporation) as is required to be taken by it to effect the issuance of P&O Princess SVT Shares as contemplated herein, represented by the certificates representing the shares of Carnival Common Stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of such Derivative Securities, the Corporation shall (i) take all actions as may be necessary to permit the P&O Princess Trustee to effect such action and (ii) upon conversion or exercise of such Derivative Securities, issue to the exercising or converting holder of such Derivative Securities a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that such holder is entitled to receive upon such exercise or conversion, which certificate or certificates shall also represent an equivalent number of P&O Princess SVT Shares in accordance with the terms of the Pairing Agreement and of the P&O Princess SVT Agreement. ARTICLE XIX Domicile The domicile of the Corporation shall be in Panama City, Republic of Panama. However, the Corporation may, as provided for by the Board of Directors, engage in business and establish branches and keep its files and assets anywhere in the world. Likewise, the Corporation may change its domicile of incorporation and continue to exist under the laws or jurisdiction of another country, if authorized by a resolution of the shareholders of the Corporation or of the Board of Directors. ARTICLE XX Directors and Officers The names and addresses of the directors and officers of the Corporation in office as of the date hereof are as follows: 31
32
ARTICLE XXI Miscellaneous (a) Ambiguity. In the case of an ambiguity in the application of any of the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation, including any definition contained in Article XXI hereof, the Board of Directors shall have the power to determine the application of the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation with respect to any situation based on the facts known to them. (b) Enforcement. The Corporation is authorized specifically to seek equitable relief, including injunctive relief, to enforce the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation. (c) Non-Waiver. No delay or failure on the part of the Corporation or the Board of Directors in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of any right of the Corporation or the Board of Directors, as the case may be, except to the extent specifically waived in writing. (d) No Trust Business. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary included in these Articles of Incorporation, the creation and continued existence of the Excess Share Trust may not be regarded as constituting the exercise by the Excess Share Trustee of trust business in Panama in violation of the trust laws of Panama. ARTICLE XXII Definitions For purposes of these Articles of Incorporation, except where the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings: "Acting in Concert" shall have the same meaning as it has in the City Code; provided that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, none of (x) the Arison Group, (y) the Carnival Group or (z) the P&O Princess Group (each, a "Non-Concert Group"), shall be deemed to be Acting in Concert with any other Non-Concert Group for the purpose of these Articles of Incorporation. "Amendment Date" shall mean [.], 2003. "Applicable Exchange Rate" shall mean, in relation to any proposed Distributions by the Corporation and P&O Princess in relation to which a foreign 33
exchange rate is required, the average of the closing mid-point spot U.S. dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before the Distribution Determination Date relating to such Distributions (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times, or such other point of reference as the parties shall agree), or such other spot U.S. dollar-sterling exchange rate or average U.S. dollar-sterling exchange rate as at such other date (or over such other period) before a Distribution Determination Date as the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board shall agree, in each case rounded to five decimal places. "Applicable Regulations" shall mean (a) any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, judgment, order, decree, license, permit, directive or requirement of any Governmental Agency having jurisdiction over the Corporation and/or P&O Princess; and (b) the rules, regulations, and guidelines of (i) any stock exchange or other trading market on which any shares or other securities or depositary receipts representing such shares or securities of either the Corporation or P&O Princess are listed, traded or quoted; and (ii) any other body with which entities with securities listed or quoted on such exchanges customarily comply (but, if not having the force of law, only if compliance with such directives, requirements, rules, regulations or guidelines is in accordance with the general practice of persons to whom they are intended to apply), in each case for the time being in force and taking into account all exemptions, waivers or variations from time to time applicable (in particular situations or generally) to the Corporation or, as the case may be, P&O Princess. "Arison Group" shall mean each of Marilyn B. Arison, Micky Arison, Shari Arison, Michael Arison or their spouses or children or lineal descendants of Marilyn B. Arison, Micky Arison, Shari Arison, Michael Arison or their spouses, any trust established by Theodore Arison, any trust established for the benefit of any Arison family member mentioned in this definition, or any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by or under common control with any Arison family member mentioned in this paragraph or any trust established for the benefit of any such Arison family member or any charitable trust or non-profit entity established by a member of the Arison Group but excluding (for the avoidance of doubt) Carnival or P&O Princess or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates. "Articles of Incorporation" shall mean the articles of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time. "Associated Tax Credit" shall mean, in relation to any Distribution proposed to be made by either the Corporation or P&O Princess, the amount of any imputed or associated Tax credit or rebate or exemption (or the value of any other similar associated Tax Benefit) which would be available to a shareholder receiving or entitled to receive the Distribution, together with the amount of any credit or benefit in respect of any Tax required to be deducted or withheld from the Distribution by or on behalf of the paying company. 34
"beneficial ownership" shall mean beneficial ownership as determined under Rule 13d-3 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the terms "beneficially own" and "beneficially owned" shall have the correlative meanings. "Beneficial Ownership" shall mean ownership of Shares by a Person who would be treated as the owner of such Shares directly, indirectly or constructively, as determined for purposes of Section 883(c)(3) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and shall include any Shares Beneficially Owned by any other Person who is a "related person" with respect to such Person through the application of Section 267(b) of the Code, as modified in any way for the purposes of Section 883(c)(3) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The terms "Beneficial Owner," "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" shall have correlative meanings. "Board of Directors" or "Board" shall mean the board of directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorised committee of the board of directors of the Corporation) from time to time. "Business Day" shall mean, for purposes of the definitions of "Applicable Exchange Rate" and "Liquidation Exchange Rate" only, any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banking institutions in the cities of both New York and London are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close in the United States or England (or on which such banking institutions are open solely for trading in euros). "By-Laws" shall mean the by-laws of the Corporation, as from time to time amended. "Carnival Common Stock" shall mean issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock from time to time, as the same may be subdivided or consolidated from time to time and any shares of capital stock into which such Common Stock may be reclassified, converted or otherwise changed, excluding the Carnival Special Voting Share and the Carnival Equalization Share and, except with respect to any voting rights and rights on a Liquidation as described in Article V(e), shall include the Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock. "Carnival Deed of Guarantee" shall mean the deed of guarantee dated as of [.], 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess pursuant to which the Corporation guarantees certain obligations of P&O Princess for the benefit of certain future creditors of P&O Princess, as amended from time to time. "Carnival Entrenched Articles" shall mean section (a) (2), (c), (d) and (e) of Article V, sections (b) and (d) of Article X, Article XIV, Article XV, Article XVI and Article XVII and the definitions referred to therein. "Carnival Entrenched By-Laws" shall mean the following sections of the By-Laws 2.06, 2.08(b), 2.10, 2.15, 2.16, 2.17, 2.18, 2.19, 2.20, 3.03(a), 3.03(b), 3.07, 3.19, 3.20 and 5.03 and the definitions referred to therein. 35
"Carnival Entrenched Provisions" shall mean the Carnival Entrenched Articles and the Carnival Entrenched By-Laws. "Carnival Equivalent Number" means the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Ordinary Share. Initially, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be 0.30040, but it shall adjust as provided in Clause 4 of the Equalization Agreement and the Schedule thereto. In all cases, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be rounded to five decimal places; "Carnival Group" shall mean the Corporation and its Subsidiaries and associated undertakings from time to time, and a member of the Carnival Group means any one of them. "Carnival Special Voting Share" shall mean the special voting share, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation. "Carnival SVC" shall mean the holder, from time to time, of the Carnival Special Voting Share. "Carnival SVC Owner" shall mean the holder, from time to time, of the equity interests in Carnival SVC. "Charitable Beneficiary" shall mean the organization or organizations described in Section 170(c)(2) and 501(c)(3) of the Code selected by the Excess Share Trustee. "City Code" shall mean the United Kingdom City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, as amended from time to time (including any supplemental or replacement Applicable Regulations), and including any actions required, or approved, by any relevant governing or supervisory body with authority in relation to the United Kingdom City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (or any replacement). "Class Rights Action" shall mean the following actions: (1) the voluntary Liquidation of the Corporation or P&O Princess for which the approval of shareholders of the Corporation is required by Applicable Regulations or proposed other than a voluntary Liquidation of both P&O Princess and the Corporation at or about the same time with the purpose or effect of no longer continuing the operation of the businesses of the companies as a combined going concern and not as part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to reconstitute all or a substantial part of such businesses in one or more successor entities; (2) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either P&O Princess or the Corporation, other than in a bona fide commercial transaction undertaken for a valid business purpose in which such 36
company receives consideration with a fair market value reasonably equivalent to the assets disposed of and not as part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to collapse or unify the DLC Structure. (3) any adjustment to the Equalization Ratio, otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement; (4) except where specifically provided for in such agreements, any amendment to the terms of, or termination of, the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed, the Carnival Deed of Guarantee or the P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the voluntary termination of either Deed of Guarantee); (5) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of or any breach of) any Carnival Entrenched Provision or any P&O Princess Entrenched Provision; (6) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) Article XII or XIII of the Articles of Incorporation that would cause, or at the time of implementation would be reasonably likely to cause, an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition thereof in the P&O Princess Articles to occur; and (7) the doing of anything which the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board agree (either in a particular case or generally), in their absolute discretion, should be approved as a Class Rights Action. "Code" shall mean the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Combined Group" means the Corporation, P&O Princess and their respective Subsidiaries. "Combined Group City Code Limit" shall mean, at any time (i) with respect to any person other than a Significant Combined Group Holder (or persons Acting in Concert) such Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares) representing, in aggregate and after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, the right to cast 30% of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time, or (ii) with respect to a Significant Combined Group Holder only, any further Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares) which increase that person's percentage of votes which could be cast on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time. "Combined Group Excess Share Holder" shall mean the holder of Combined Group Excess Shares as of the date such shares of Carnival Common Stock 37
were designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to section (c) of Article XIV. "Combined Group Excess Shares" shall mean Carnival Common Stock designated as such pursuant to section (c) of Article XIV. "Combined Group Restricted Shares" shall mean Carnival Common Stock designated as such pursuant to sections (a) or (b) of Article XIV. "Common Stock" shall mean the nominative common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation. "Corporation" shall mean Carnival Corporation, a corporation organized and existing in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Panama. "Corporation Law" shall mean the Corporation Law of the Republic of Panama. "Derivative Securities" shall have the meaning given in Article XVIII(c). "Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning given to it in Article V(e). "Distributable Reserves" shall mean, with respect to any Distribution by the Corporation or P&O Princess, the total funds available to such company which it is permitted to use to pay or make such Distribution under Applicable Regulations relating to the Corporation or P&O Princess, as the case may be. "Distribution" shall mean, in relation to the Corporation or P&O Princess, any dividend or other distribution, whether of income or capital, and in whatever form, made by such company or any of its Subsidiaries to the holders of such company's Ordinary Shares by way of pro rata entitlement, excluding any Liquidation Distribution or buy back or repurchase or cancellation of Ordinary Shares. "Distribution Determination Date" shall mean, with respect to any parallel Distributions to be made by the Corporation and P&O Princess, the date on which the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board resolve to pay or make such parallel Distributions (or if they resolve on different dates to pay or make such parallel Distributions, the later of those dates). "Equalization Agreement" shall mean the Equalization and Governance Agreement, dated as of [.], 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess, as the same may be amended or modified from time to time in accordance with its terms. "Equalization Ratio" shall mean the ratio of (i) one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to (ii) the Carnival Equivalent Number; 38
"Equalization Share" shall mean, in relation to the Corporation, any share designated as an Equalization Share in the Corporation from time to time by the Board and, in relation to P&O Princess, the Equalization Share of (pound)50,000 in the capital of P&O Princess. "Equalized Distribution Amount" shall mean, in relation to either the Corporation or P&O Princess, the amount of any Distribution proposed to be paid or made by such company at any particular time on its Ordinary Shares, before deduction of any amount in respect of Tax required to be deducted or withheld from such Distribution by or on behalf of such company and excluding the amount of any Associated Tax Credit, all such amounts being expressed in the currency of declaration and on a per share basis. "Equivalent Distribution" shall have the meaning set forth in section (a) of Article XVI. "Equivalent Resolution" shall mean a resolution of either the Corporation or P&O Princess that is equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company. "Excess Shares" shall mean Shares resulting from an event described in section (b) of Article XII. "Excess Share Trust" shall mean a trust created pursuant to Article XIII or Article XV hereof, as applicable. "Excess Share Trustee" shall mean a Person, who shall be unaffiliated with the Corporation, any Purported Beneficial Transferee, any Purported Record Transferee and any Combined Group Excess Share Holder, appointed by the Board of Directors as the trustee of the Excess Share Trust. "Existing Holders" shall mean (i) any member of the group of Persons that jointly filed the Schedule 13D with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on November 22, 1999, with respect to the beneficial ownership of shares of Carnival Common Stock and (ii) any Permitted Transferee. "Governmental Agency" shall mean a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or governmental, regulatory, self regulatory or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental entity and shall include without limitation any relevant competition authorities, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing Authority, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. "Joint Electorate Action" shall have the meaning set forth in the Corporation's By-Laws. "Liquidation" shall mean, with respect to the Corporation or P&O Princess, any liquidation, winding up, receivership, dissolution, insolvency or equivalent 39
proceedings pursuant to which the assets of such company will be liquidated and distributed to creditors and other holders of provable claims against such company. "Liquidation Distribution" shall mean, in relation to the Corporation or P&O Princess, any dividend or other distribution per Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Share, respectively, whether of income or capital and in whatever form, made or to be made by such company or any of its Subsidiaries to the holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the case may be, by way of pro rata entitlement in connection with the Liquidation of such company. "Liquidation Exchange Rate" shall mean, as at any date, the average of the closing mid-point spot U.S. dollar-U.K. pound sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before such date (as shown in the London Edition of the Financial Times), or such other U.S. dollar-U.K. pound sterling exchange rate as the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board or the P&O Princess Board and the liquidators of Carnival or the Board of Directors and the liquidators of P&O Princess or the liquidators of both P&O Princess and Carnival Corporation, as the case may be, may determine, in each case rounded to five decimal places. "Majority Resolution" means a resolution duly approved at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes cast on such resolution by all Shareholders of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon (including, where applicable, the Carnival SVC) who are present in person or by proxy at such meeting; provided that abstentions shall not be counted as votes "cast" for these purposes. "Mandatory Exchange " shall have the meaning set forth in the P&O Princess Articles. "Market Price" of any class of Shares on any date shall mean the average of the daily closing prices for any such class of Shares for the five (5) consecutive trading days ending on such date, or if such date is not a trading date, the five consecutive trading days preceding such date. The closing price for each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to any class of Shares listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, or if such class of Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which such class of Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or if such class of Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price, or if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over the counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System or such other system then in use, or if such class of Shares are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in such class of Shares selected by the Board of Directors. 40
"Ordinary Shares" shall mean the Carnival Common Stock and/or the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the context requires. "Other Voting Shares" shall mean, with respect to any resolution to be acted on by the shareholders of the Corporation or P&O Princess, as the case may be, such shares of capital stock of that company that are entitled to vote on such resolution at a meeting of the shareholders of such company, other than the Carnival Special Voting Share, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and the Ordinary Shares. "Ownership Limit" shall mean, in the case of a Person other than an Existing Holder, Beneficial Ownership of more than four and nine tenths percent (4.9%), by value, vote or number, of any class of Shares. The Ownership Limit shall not apply to any Existing Holder or to any class of Shares exempted in accordance with the provisions of section (g) of Article XII. "P&O Princess" shall mean P&O Princess Cruises plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales. "P&O Princess Articles" shall mean the articles of association of P&O Princess, as amended from time to time. "P&O Princess Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of P&O Princess (or a duly authorized committee of the board of directors of P&O Princess) from time to time. "P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee" means the guarantee dated as of January ___, 2003 between P&O Princess and the Corporation, pursuant to which P&O Princess guarantees certain obligations of the Corporation for the benefit of certain future creditors of the Corporation, as amended from time to time. "P&O Princess Group" means P&O Princess and its Subsidiaries from time to time, and a member of the P&O Princess Group means any one of them. "P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" shall have the meaning given to it in the P&O Princess Articles. "P&O Princess Special Voting Share" shall mean the special voting share of [(pound)1] in P&O Princess. "P&O Princess SVT" shall mean P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of __________, or such other entity as replaces it pursuant to the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed. "P&O Princess SVT Agreement" shall mean the Voting Trust Agreement, establishing P&O Princess SVT, between P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival, dated as of [.] 2003, as amended from time to time. 41
"P&O Princess SVT Shares" shall mean the shares of beneficial interest in the P&O Princess SVT. "P&O Princess Trustee" means [.], as trustee of P&O Princess SVT pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement (or any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.08 thereof). "Parallel Shareholder Meeting" shall have the same meaning as it has in the By-Laws. "Pairing Agreement" means the Pairing Agreement, dated as of [.], 2003, among the Corporation, the P&O Princess Trustee and [.], as transfer agent, as amended from time to time. "Permitted Transfer" shall mean a Transfer by an Existing Holder to any Person which does not result in the Corporation losing its exemption from taxation on gross income derived from the international operation of a ship or ships within the meaning of Section 883 of the Code. Any such transferee is herein referred to as a "Permitted Transferee." "Person" shall mean a person as defined by Section 7701(a) of the Code. "Preferred Stock" shall mean preferred stock, par value $.01 share, of the Corporation. "Purported Beneficial Holder" shall mean, with respect to any event (other than a purported Transfer, but including holding Shares in excess of the Ownership Limitation on the Amendment Date) which results in Excess Shares, the Person for whom the Purported Record Holder held Shares that, pursuant to section (b) of Article XII, became Excess Shares upon the occurrence of such event. "Purported Beneficial Transferee" shall mean, with respect to any purported Transfer which results in Excess Shares, the purported beneficial transferee for whom the Purported Record Transferee would have acquired Shares if such Transfer had been valid under section (a) of Article XII. "Purported Record Holder" shall mean, with respect to any event (other than a purported Transfer, but including holding Shares in excess of the Ownership Limitation on the Amendment Date) which results in Excess Shares, the record holder of the Shares that, pursuant to section (b) of Article XII, became Excess Shares upon the occurrence of such event. "Purported Record Transferee" shall mean, with respect to any purported Transfer which results in Excess Shares, the record holder of the Shares if such Transfer had been valid under section (a) of Article XII. 42
"Qualifying Acquisition" shall mean an acquisition of Ordinary Shares consummated pursuant to a Qualifying Takeover Offer. "Qualifying Takeover Offer" shall mean an offer or offers to acquire Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (i) which are made in accordance with the City Code to the extent that the City Code applies to the Combined Group, and (ii) which (provided that compliance with the following is not inconsistent with the City Code): (a) are made to all holders of Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares; or (b) are undertaken with respect to the Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares at or about the same time; and (c) comply with all Applicable Regulations and these Articles of Incorporation and the P&O Princess Articles; and (d) each of the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board determines are equivalent to the holders of Carnival Common Stock, on the one hand, and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, on the other hand, with respect to: (1) the consideration offered for such shares (taking into account exchange rates and any difference in the share price of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Carnival Common Stock determined by the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board in their sole discretion to be appropriate and taking into account the Equalization Ratio); (2) the information provided to such holders; (3) the time available to such holders to consider such offer; (4) the conditions to which the offers are subject; and (5) such other terms of the offers which the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board shall determine are relevant. "Restriction Termination Date" shall mean such date as may be determined by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion (and for any reason) as the date on which the ownership and transfer restrictions set forth in Articles XII and XIII should cease to apply. "Section 883 Amendment Date" means August 2, 2002. "Shares" shall mean shares of the Corporation of any class or classes traded on an established securities market as may be authorized and issued from time to time pursuant to Article V. 43
"Significant Combined Group Holder" shall mean any person who, whether solely or together with any party or parties Acting in Concert with such person, after complying with the provisions of Articles XIV and XV, holds or exercises voting control over Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock) representing, in aggregate and after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, the right to cast not less than thirty percent (30%) and not more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time. "Subsidiary" shall mean with respect to the Corporation or P&O Princess, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such party otherwise has the power to direct. "Supermajority Resolution" means a resolution required by Applicable Regulations, these Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes cast than required under a Majority Resolution, or where the percentage of votes in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by a Majority Resolution. "SVE Special Voting Deed" means the SVE Special Voting Deed, dated as of [.], 2003, by and among the Corporation, Carnival SVC, Carnival SVC Owner, P&O Princess and P&O Princess Trustee. "Tax" shall mean any taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings or duties levied by any authority (including stamp and transaction duties) (together with any related interest, penalties, fines and expenses in connection with them). "Tax Benefit" shall mean any credit, rebate, exemption or benefit in respect of Tax available to any person. "Transfer" shall mean any sale, transfer, gift, hypothecation, pledge, assignment, devise or other disposition of Shares (including (i) the granting of any option or interest similar to an option (including an option to acquire an option or any series of such options) or entering into any agreement for the sale, transfer or other disposition of Shares or (ii) the sale, transfer, assignment or other disposition of any securities or rights convertible into or exchangeable for Shares), whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record, constructively or beneficially and whether by operation of law or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, whether securities or rights are convertible or exchangeable for Shares shall be determined in accordance with Sections 267(b) and 883 of the Code. 44
In witness whereof, the undersigned have executed the Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Carnival Corporation this __ day of __________, 2003. - ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- By: Micky Arison By: Arnaldo Perez Title: Chairman of the Board of Directors Title: Secretary and Chief Executive Officer 45

Exhibit 99.6 [AGREED FORM] AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS OF CARNIVAL CORPORATION ARTICLE I Offices Section 1.1 Offices. The Corporation may have and maintain an office or offices at such places within or without the Republic of Panama as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation requires. ARTICLE II Meetings of Shareholders Section 2.1 Place of Meeting. Every meeting of the Shareholders the Corporation shall be held at the office of the Corporation or at such place or places within or outside the Republic of Panama as shall be specified or fixed in the notice of such meeting or in the waiver of notice thereof. Section 2.2 Annual Meeting. The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders shall be held annually at such hour and on such business day in March or April as may be determined by the Board of Directors and designated in the notice of meeting. At such Annual Meeting, the Shareholders then entitled to vote shall elect directors and shall transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting. Section 2.3 Deferred Meeting for Election of Directors, Etc. If the Annual Meeting for the election of directors and the transaction of other business is not held within the months specified in Section 2.2, the Board shall call a meeting of Shareholders for the election of directors and the transaction of other business as soon thereafter as convenient. Section 2.4 Special Meetings. A Special Meeting of Shareholders (other than special meting for the election of directors), unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called at any time by the Board or by the President or by the Secretary. At any Special Meeting of Shareholders only such business may be transacted as is related to the purpose or purposes of such meeting set forth in the notice thereof or in any waiver of notice thereof. Section 2.5 Notice of Meetings. Except as provided in Section 6.2, written notice of all meetings of Shareholders stating the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, including whether the resolution relates to a Joint Electorate Action
or a Class Rights Action, the name of the person or persons at whose direction the notice is being given, and the date, time and place where it is to be held, shall be given, personally or by mail, at least ten (10) but not more than sixty (60) days before such meeting, to each Shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting and to each member of the Board of Directors. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, with postage prepaid directed to the Shareholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent of the Corporation that the notice required by this Section 2.5 has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, and at the adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. If, however, the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each Shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. Section 2.6 Notice with Respect to Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. If the Corporation proposes to undertake a Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action, the Corporation shall immediately give notice to P&O Princess of the nature of the Joint Electorate Action or the Class Rights Action it proposes to take. Unless such action is proposed to be taken at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall convene a Special Meeting for the purpose of considering a resolution to approve the Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. Such meeting shall be held as close in time as practicable with the Parallel Shareholder Meeting convened by P&O Princess for purposes of considering such Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. (a) The Corporation shall cooperate fully with P&O Princess in preparing resolutions, explanatory memoranda or any other information or material required in connection with the proposed Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. Section 2.7 Quorum, Manner of Acting and Adjournment. (a) The presence in person or by proxy at any meeting of Shareholders holding at least one-third of the total votes entitled to be cast shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting except as otherwise required by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting of Shareholders, it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any Shareholders. The holders of a majority of the shares of stock present in person or represented by proxy at any meeting of Shareholders, including an adjourned meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. The Secretary shall give notice to P&O Princess as soon as possible of an adjournment and of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting. 2
(b) When a quorum for the transaction of business is present at any meeting, a Majority Resolution shall decide such question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or as provided in these By-Laws, a Supermajority Resolution is required, in which case such express provision shall govern the decision of such question. Shareholders present in person or by proxy at a duly convened meeting can continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding withdrawal of Shareholders so as to leave fewer than a quorum present. Section 2.8 Quorum for Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions. (a) For purposes of determining whether a quorum exists at any meeting of Shareholders where a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action is to be considered: (i) if the meeting of Shareholders convenes before the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall, at the commencement of the meeting, have no votes and therefore shall not be counted for purposes of determining the total number of shares entitled to vote at such meeting or whether a quorum exists at such meeting, although the Carnival Special Voting Share itself must be present, either in person (through a representative of Carnival SVC) or by proxy; (ii) if the meeting of the Shareholders convenes at substantially the same time as or after the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess with respect to one or more Joint Electorate Actions, the Carnival Special Voting Share will have the maximum number of votes attached to it as were cast on such Joint Electorate Actions, either for, against or abstained, at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, and such maximum number of votes (including abstentions) shall constitute shares entitled to vote and present for purposes of determining whether a quorum exists at such meeting; and (iii) if the meeting of Shareholders convenes at substantially the same time as or after the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess with respect to a Class Rights Action, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall, at the commencement of the meeting, have no votes and therefore shall not be counted for purposes of determining the total number of shares entitled to vote at such meeting or whether a quorum exists at such meeting, although the Carnival Special Voting Share itself must be present, either in person (through a representative of Carnival SVC) or by proxy. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order for a quorum to be validly constituted with respect to meetings of Shareholders convened to consider a Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action, Carnival SVC must be present at such meeting. 3
Section 2.9 Organization. At every meeting of Shareholders, the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or in the case of vacancy in the office or absence of the Chairman of the Board, one of the following persons present in the order stated: the vice chairman of the Board, if there be one or in their order of rank or seniority if there be more than one, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the vice presidents in their order of rank or seniority, a chairman designated by those members of the Board of Directors present at the meeting or a chairman chosen by Shareholders shall act as chairman, and the Secretary, or in his absence, an assistant secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary and assistant secretaries, a person appointed by the Chairman, shall act as secretary. Section 2.10 Voting by Ballot. Any resolution to be considered at a meeting of Shareholders in relation to which the Carnival SVC is or may be entitled to vote shall be decided by ballot. The ballot shall be kept open for such time as to allow the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess to be held and for the votes attaching to the Carnival Special Voting Share to be calculated and cast on such ballot, although such ballot may be closed earlier in respect of shares of other classes. The chairman of the meeting shall direct the procedures for voting by ballot. Section 2.11 Voting by Proxy. Each Shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of Shareholders may authorize any person to act for him by proxy. A proxy deposited by Carnival SVC will be valid if it is received by or delivered to the chairman of the meeting before the close of the ballot to which it relates. To be valid, a proxy must comply in form and substance with all applicable provisions of Panamanian law. Section 2.12 Cumulative Voting. Cumulative voting for directors shall not be permitted. Section 2.13 List of Shareholders. The Secretary shall prepare and make, or cause to be prepared and made, at least ten days before every meeting of Shareholders, a complete list of Shareholders, entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each Shareholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each Shareholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any Shareholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any Shareholder who is present. Section 2.14 Inspectors of Election. (a) In advance of any meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors may appoint inspectors of election, who need not be Shareholders, to act at such meeting or any adjournment thereof. If inspectors of election are not so appointed, the person presiding at any such meeting may, and on the request of any Shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting and before voting begins shall, appoint inspectors of 4
election. In case any absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, the persons designated pursuant to Section 2.9 shall act as chairman and secretary of the meeting. (b) On request of the person presiding at the meeting or any Shareholder entitled to vote thereat, the inspectors shall make a report in writing of any challenge or question or matter determined by them, and execute a sworn certificate of any fact found by them. Any such report or certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated and on the vote as certified by him or them. Section 2.15 Actions for Shareholder Approval. (a) All actions to be approved by the holders of Carnival Common Stock shall be Joint Electorate Actions, Class Rights Actions or Procedural Resolutions. (b) No resolution with respect to a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action shall be approved unless the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess is validly held and a vote of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares is held on an Equivalent Resolution. Section 2.16 Joint Electorate Actions. All actions put to the holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, except for Class Rights Actions and Procedural Resolutions, shall constitute Joint Electorate Actions. For the avoidance of doubt, the following actions, if put to the holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, shall constitute Joint Electorate Actions: (a) the appointment, removal or re-election of any director of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or both of them; (b) to the extent such receipt or adoption is required by Applicable Regulations, the receipt or adoption of the Corporation's or P&O Princess' financial statements, or both of them, or accounts prepared on a combined basis, other than any accounts in respect of the period(s) ended prior to the date of the Equalization Agreement; (c) a change of name of either the Corporation, P&O Princess, or both of them; and (d) the appointment or removal of the auditors of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or both of them. Section 2.17 Procedure for Approval of Joint Electorate Actions. (a) If the Corporation proposes to take any Joint Electorate Action, such action shall require approval by Majority Resolution (or if Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution, by the vote required thereby) of the holders of 5
Carnival Common Stock, holders of the Corporation's Other Voting Shares and the Carnival SVC, voting together as a single class by ballot. (b) No resolution will be approved with respect to a Joint Electorate Action unless at least one-third of the total votes entitled to be cast by (i) the holders of Carnival Common Stock, and (ii) the Carnival SVC (assuming for purposes of this calculation only that all holders of issued and outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares voted at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess) are cast on the resolution proposing such Joint Electorate Action. (c) If P&O Princess proposes to take any Joint Electorate Action, the Corporation shall convene a Special Meeting, unless such action is proposed for an Annual Meeting, as close in time as practicable to such P&O Princess shareholders meeting to consider such action and shall propose a resolution which is an Equivalent Resolution to the proposed P&O Princess resolution with respect to such Joint Electorate Action. Such Equivalent Resolution shall be proposed as a Majority Resolution, unless Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the Joint Electorate Action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution. (d) In relation to a resolution of the Corporation to approve a Joint Electorate Action at any meeting of Shareholders, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall carry: (i) such number of votes in favour of the resolution as were cast in favour of the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; (ii) such number of votes against the resolution as were cast against the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; and (iii) such number of abstentions as were recorded as abstentions from the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; in each case, multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of the Shareholders is held and in each case rounded up to the nearest whole number, such votes to be cast by the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share in accordance with the above provisions. Section 2.18 Class Rights Action. The following actions constitute Class Rights Actions: (a) the voluntary Liquidation of the Corporation or P&O Princess for which the approval of shareholders of the Corporation is required by 6
Applicable Regulations or proposed other than a voluntary Liquidation of both P&O Princess and the Corporation at or about the same time with the purpose or effect of no longer continuing the operation of the businesses of the companies as a combined going concern and not as part of a scheme, plan, transaction, or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to reconstitute all or a substantial part of such businesses in one or more successor entities; (b) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either P&O Princess or the Corporation, other than in a bona fide commercial transaction undertaken for a valid business purpose in which such company receives consideration with a fair market value reasonably equivalent to the assets disposed of and not as a part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose of which is to collapse or unify the DLC Structure; (c) any adjustment to the Equalization Ratio, otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement; (d) except where specifically provided for in such agreements, any amendment to the terms of, or termination of, the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed, the Carnival Deed of Guarantee or the P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the voluntary termination of either Deed of Guarantee); (e) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) any Carnival Entrenched Provision or any P&O Princess Entrenched Provision; (f) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) Article XII or XIII of the Articles of Incorporation that would cause, or at the time of implementation would be reasonably likely to cause, an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition of such term in the P&O Princess Articles of Association to occur; and (g) the doing of anything which the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board agree (either in a particular case or generally), in their absolute discretion, should be approved as a Class Rights Action. Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, none of the foregoing actions may be taken by the Corporation unless it has been approved as a Class Rights Action in accordance with Section 2.19. Section 2.19 Procedure for Approval of Class Rights Actions. (a) If the Corporation proposes to take any Class Rights Action, such action shall require approval by a Majority Resolution (or, if Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution, by the vote required thereby) of holders of 7
Carnival Common Stock, holders of Other Voting Shares of the Corporation, and the Carnival SVC, voting together as a single class by ballot. (b) If the proposed Class Rights Action is approved by the requisite vote (as determined in accordance with the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles) of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess entitled to vote thereon at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall have no votes with respect to such proposed Class Rights Action. If the proposed Class Rights Action is not approved by the requisite vote (as determined in accordance with the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles) of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess, entitled to vote thereon at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess: (i) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Majority Resolution, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Majority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and Other Voting Shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-Laws (including the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Carnival Special Meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution; and (ii) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Supermajority Resolution, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Supermajority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and Other Voting Shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-Laws (including the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Carnival Special Meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution. (c) If P&O Princess proposes to take any Class Rights Action, the Corporation shall convene a Special Meeting, unless such action is proposed for an Annual Meeting, as close in time as practicable to the P&O Princess shareholders meeting at which the P&O Princess resolution in respect of such Class Rights Action is to be proposed, and shall propose an Equivalent Resolution. Such Equivalent Resolution shall be proposed as a Majority Resolution, unless Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the Class Rights Action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution. Section 2.20 Procedural Resolutions. The Carnival Special Voting Share shall have no right to vote on any resolution of a procedural or technical nature, which does not adversely affect the shareholders of P&O Princess in any material respect, put to the Shareholders at a meeting ("Procedural Resolutions"), nor shall notice of such 8
meeting to Shareholders be required to include reference to these matters. The Chairman of the Board will, in his absolute discretion, determine whether a resolution is a Procedural Resolution. Subject to the foregoing and without limitation, to the extent that such matters require the approval of Shareholders, any of the following shall be Procedural Resolutions: (a) that certain people be allowed to attend or be excluded from attending the meeting; (b) that discussion be closed and the question put to the vote (provided no amendments have been raised); (c) that the question under discussion not be put to the vote (where a shareholder feels the original motion should not be put to the meeting at all, if such original motion was brought during the course of that meeting); (d) to proceed with matters in an order other than that set out in the notice of the meeting; (e) to adjourn the debate (for example, to a subsequent meeting);and (f) to adjourn the meeting. ARTICLE III Board of Directors Section 3.1 Powers. All powers of the Corporation, except those specifically reserved or granted to Shareholders by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, are hereby granted to and vested in the Board of Directors; all such powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by, the Board of Directors. Section 3.2 Number and Term of Office. (a) The Board of Directors shall consist of no less than three (3) nor more than twenty-five (25) members. Directors need not be Shareholders. Each director shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. (b) The Board of Directors shall consist of the identical individuals that constitute the P&O Princess Board. Section 3.3 Eligibility for Election, Effectiveness of Appointment, Reciprocal Appointment. (a) No person shall be a director of the Corporation unless they are also a director of P&O Princess. The appointment of a person as a director of the 9
Corporation shall only take effect at the same time as that person's appointment as a director of P&O Princess takes effect. (b) If a person is appointed as a director of P&O Princess by the P&O Princess Board in accordance with the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles, the Board of Directors shall also appoint that person as a director of the Corporation. Section 3.4 Vacancies. Vacancies on the Board of Directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, provided that any such person is appointed to both the Board of Directors and P&O Princess Board at the same time. If only one director remains in office, this director shall have the power to fill all vacancies. If there are no directors, the Secretary may call a meeting at the request of any two shareholders of the Corporation for the purpose of appointing one or more directors. Section 3.5 Resignation of Directors. Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by written notice to the Corporation. Such director must, concurrently with his or her resignation as director of the Corporation, also resign as director of P&O Princess. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein, but in all events, only concurrently with the effectiveness of the director's resignation from the P&O Princess Board, and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Section 3.6 Removal of Directors. Subject to the provisions of the Corporation Law, any or all of the directors may be removed with or without cause only by a Majority Resolution. Section 3.7 Disqualification of Directors. A director shall be disqualified from continuing to serve on the Board of Directors if (i) he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws; (ii) he resigns from office by giving written notice to the Corporation or, having been appointed for a fixed term, the term expires or his office as a director is vacated pursuant to Section 3.6; or (iii) he ceases to be a director of P&O Princess. Section 3.8 Organization. At every meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or, in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of the Chairman of the Board, one of the following officers present in the order stated: the vice chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one or in their order of rank and seniority if more than one, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the vice presidents in their order of rank and seniority, or a chairman chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall preside, and the Secretary, or, in his absence, an assistant secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary and the assistant secretaries, any person appointed by the chairman of the meeting shall act as secretary. 10
Section 3.9 Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors may hold its meetings, both regular and special, at such place or places within or outside the Republic of Panama as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint, or as may be designated in the notice calling the meeting. Section 3.10 Annual Meetings. On the day when and at the place where the Annual Meeting of Shareholders is held, and as soon as practicable thereafter, the Board of Directors may hold its annual meeting, for the purposes of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of other business. Such annual meeting may be held at any other time and place specified in a notice given as provided in Section 3.11 or in a waiver of notice thereof. Section 3.11 Regular Meetings. Unless otherwise required by the Board of Directors, regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. At such meetings, the directors may transact such business as may properly be brought before the meeting. If any day fixed for a regular meeting of the Board shall be a Saturday or Sunday or a legal holiday at the place where such meeting is to be held, then such meeting shall be held at the same hour at the same place on the first business day thereafter which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. Section 3.12 Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary or by two or more directors. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each director by telephone or in writing at least 24 hours (in the case of notice by telephone) or 48 hours (in the case of notice by electronic mail or facsimile) or 10 days (in the case of notice by mail) before the time at which the meeting is to be held. Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purpose or purposes of the meeting. If mailed, each notice shall be deemed given when deposited, with postage thereon prepaid, in a post office or official depository under the exclusive care and custody of the United States post office department. Such mailing shall be by first class mail. Section 3.13 Voting by Proxy. Each director may authorize another director to act for him by proxy at meetings of the Board of Directors, at meetings of committees of the Board of Directors of which he is a member and in giving a written consent in lieu of meetings of the Board of Directors and such committees on behalf of his appointor. A proxy to a director shall be given in an instrument in writing including a facsimile or similar communication method and shall be produced to the first meeting at which it is used or otherwise delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. A proxy shall be conclusive evidence of its validity until notice of revocation of such proxy in writing including a facsimile or similar method of communication has been delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. 11
Section 3.14 Quorum, Manner of Acting, Adjournment and Action without Meeting. (a) At all meetings of the Board of Directors the presence, in person or by proxy, of one-third of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business except as may be otherwise specifically provided by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The act of a simple majority of the directors present in person or by proxy at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws. A majority of the directors present at any meeting of the Board, including an adjourned meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the Board need not be given to any director whether or not present at the time of the adjournment. Any business may be transacted at any adjourned meeting that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. (b) Any person who is himself a director and acting as a proxy for any other director shall be entitled to have one vote for each capacity in which he so acts (in addition to any vote he may have as a director). (c) Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all of the members of the Board of Directors or committee (or other proxies) consent thereto in writing, and the writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Section 3.15 Conference Telephone Meetings. One or more directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or of a committee of the Board of Directors, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons can hear each other. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Section 3.16 Committees of the Board of Directors. (a) The Board of Directors may, by resolutions adopted by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors, designate from among its members one or more other committees (having such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors), each committee to consist of two or more directors. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. 12
(b) Any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall have and may exercise such powers and authorities as shall be provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee; but no committee of the Board of Directors shall have the power or authority in reference to the submission to Shareholders of any action that requires Shareholders' authorization under Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, the filling of vacancies in the Board of Directors or in a committee, the fixing of the compensation of the directors for serving on the Board of Directors or on any committee, the adoption of an agreement of merger or consolidation, the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to Shareholders a dissolution of the Corporation or revocation of a dissolution, the amendment or repeal of the By-Laws or the adoption of new By-Laws, or the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board of Directors other than one which is by its terms so amendable or repealable. Section 3.17 Compensation of Directors. Each director, in consideration of his service as such, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum or such fees for attendance at directors' meetings, or both, as the Board may from time to time determine, together with reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by him in connection with the performance of his duties. Each director who shall serve as a member of any committee of directors in consideration of his serving as such shall be entitled to such additional amount per annum or such fees for attendance at committee meetings, or both, as the Board may from time to time determine, together with reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties. Nothing contained in this section shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor. Section 3.18 Specific and General Powers of Directors. Subject to any regulations from time to time made by Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall have the management of the affairs, business and property of the Corporation and may do all such acts as are not prohibited by Applicable Regulation, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these By-Laws, and as are not reserved to the Shareholders. Section 3.19 Directors' Power to Give Effect to the DLC Agreements. (a) The directors are authorized to operate and carry into effect the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed and the Carnival Deed of Guarantee with full power to: (i) enter into, operate and carry into effect any further or other agreements or arrangements with or in connection with P&O Princess or the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share; and (ii) do all such things as, in the opinion of the directors, are necessary or desirable for the application, implementation, protection, furtherance or maintenance of the dual listed company relationship with P&O Princess constituted by or arising out of any agreement or arrangement. 13
(b) Subject to Applicable Regulation, nothing done by any director in good faith pursuant to such authority and obligations shall constitute a breach of the fiduciary duties of such director to the Corporation or Shareholders. In particular, the directors shall, in addition to their duties to the Corporation, be entitled to have regard to the interests of the Combined Shareholders as if the Corporation and P&O Princess were a single legal entity. They are also authorized to provide to P&O Princess and any officer, employee or agent of P&O Princess any information relating to the Corporation. Section 3.20 Discretionary Matters. The Board of Directors may, by agreement with the P&O Princess Board: (a) decide to seek the approval of the shareholders (or any class of shareholders) of either or both of the Corporation and P&O Princess for any matter that would not otherwise require such approval; (b) require any Joint Electorate Action to be approved instead as a Class Rights Action; or (c) specify a higher majority vote than the required majority that would otherwise be required for any shareholder vote provided for in Section 2.7. ARTICLE IV Officers Section 4.1 Number, Qualifications and Designation. The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more vice presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as may be elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.2. Officers may be of any nationality and need not be residents or citizens of the Republic of Panama. One person may hold more than one office. Officers may be, but need not be, directors of the Corporation or Shareholders. Section 4.2 Election and Term of Office. The officers of the Corporation, except those appointed by delegated authority pursuant to Section 4.3, shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors, and each such officer shall hold his office until his successor shall have been elected or appointed and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. More than two offices may be held by the same person. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors or appointed by delegated authority may be removed at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of members of the Board of Directors then in office. The removal of an officer without cause shall be without prejudice to his contract rights, if any. The election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights. Any vacancy occurring in the office of the Corporation may be filled by the Board of Directors. Section 4.3 Powers and Duties. The Chairman of the Board, or, if a Chairman of the Board has not been chosen or is unavailable, the Vice-Chairman of the Board, or, if neither has been chosen or are unavailable, the President, shall preside at all 14
meetings of the Shareholders and of the Board. The Chairman of the Board and the Vice-Chairman of the Board shall be executive officers of the Corporation and shall exercise such executive duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board. The officers and agents of the Corporation shall each have such powers and perform such duties in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation as generally pertain to their respective offices, as well as such powers and duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board. Section 4.4 Other Officers, Subordinate Officers, Non-Board Committees and Agents. The Board of Directors may from time to time elect such other officers and appoint such employees or other agents, or such committees (not constituting committees of the Board of Directors), as it deems necessary, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are provided in these By-Laws, or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors may delegate to any officer or committee of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 3.16 the power to appoint subordinate officers and to retain or appoint employees or other agents, or committees (not constituting committees of the Board of Directors) and to prescribe the authority, duties and compensation of such subordinate officers, committees, employees or other agents. ARTICLE V Certificates of Stock, Transfer, Etc. Section 5.1 Issue. Each Shareholder shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates for shares of the Corporation owned by him upon his request thereof. All share certificates of the Corporation shall be issued in registered form only, consistent with the provisions of Article 27 of the Corporation Law. They shall be signed by the President or a vice president and by the Secretary or an assistant secretary or the Treasurer or an assistant treasurer, and may bear the corporate seal, which may be a facsimile. The signatures of the officers upon such certificate may be facsimiles, if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar other than the Corporation itself or its employees. In case any officer who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before the certificate is issued it may be issued or delivered with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of its issue or delivery. The Corporation shall keep a record containing the names and addresses of all registered Shareholders, the number and class of shares held by each and the date when they respectively became the owners of record thereof. Section 5.2 Transfer. (a) Transfer of shares issued in the name of a holder of record shall be made only on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by his attorney lawfully constituted and upon surrender of and cancellation of the certificate therefor. Every transfer of shares by holders of record shall be entered on the stock book of the Corporation. Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for registered shares duly endorsed or 15
accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. No transfer of shares of capital stock shall be valid as against the Corporation, its shareholders and creditors for any purpose except to render the transferee liable for the debts of the Corporation to the extent provided by law until such transfer shall have been entered on the books of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred. (b) Any applicant wishing to transfer shares shall pay to the Corporation any stamp or other duties or taxes payable in respect of the transfer, together with any charges imposed by the Corporation in respect of such transfer, all prior to and as a condition precedent to the issuance of any new certificates to such applicant. Section 5.3 Transfer of the Carnival Special Voting Share. No transfer of the Carnival Special Voting Share will take effect until the transfer has been approved in accordance with the SVE Special Voting Deed and until the transferee has agreed to be bound by the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed. Section 5.4 Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates. The holder of any shares of capital stock of the corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction, theft or mutilation of the certificate representing such shares, and the corporation may issue a new certificate to replace the certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated. The Board may, in its discretion, as a condition to the issue of any such new certificate, require the owner of the lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated certificate, or his legal representatives, to make proof satisfactory to the Board of such loss, destruction, theft or mutilation and to advertise such fact in such manner as the Board may require, and to give the Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars, or such of them as the Board may require, a bond in such form, in such sums and with such surety or sureties as the Board may direct, to indemnify the Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made against any of them on account of the continued existence of any such certificate so alleged to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated and against any expense in connection with such claim. Section 5.5 Record Holder of Shares. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of registered shares to receive dividends, to vote and to exercise any other rights in respect of the shares held as the owner thereof. Section 5.6 Determination of Shareholders of Record. In order that the Corporation may determine the holders of registered shares entitled to notice of meeting of Shareholders, or entitled to express consent to or dissent from any proposed corporate action without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of shares or for the purposes of any other action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days 16
before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If no such record is fixed: (a) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the date next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (b) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board is necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed; and (c) The record date for determining stockholders for any purpose other than those specified in subsections (a) and (b) shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts resolution relating thereto. A determination of registered Shareholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Shareholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; except that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for an adjourned meeting. ARTICLE VI Notices Section 6.1 Notice to Corporation. Whenever, under the provisions of the statutes of the Republic of Panama or the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any notice, request, demand or other communication is required to be or may be given or made to the Corporation, it shall also not be construed to mean that such notice, request, demand or other communication must be given or made in person, but the same may be given or made to the Corporation by mail or facsimile. Any such notice, request, demand or other communication shall be considered to have been properly given or made, in the case of mail when deposited in the mail, and in other cases when transmitted by the party giving or making the same, directed to the Corporation at its then registered address, provided that a copy of the same is sent by like medium of communication to the attention of the secretary at the Corporation's then principal place of business. Section 6.2 Waiver of Notice. (a) Whenever any written notice is required to be given under the provision of Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. (b) Attendance of a person, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting. 17
ARTICLE VII Indemnification Section 7.1 Indemnification of Officers and Directors. The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or an officer of the Corporation or P&O Princess, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to the fullest extent and in the manner set forth in and permitted by the Corporation Law, and any other applicable law, as from time to time in effect. Such right of indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which such director or officer may be entitled apart from the foregoing provisions. The foregoing provisions of this Section 7.1 shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director and officer of the Corporation or P&O Princess who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article VII and the relevant provisions of the Corporation Law and other applicable law, if any, are in effect, and any repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts. Section 7.2 Indemnification of Other Persons. The Corporation may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as a director, officer, employee or agent or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to the extent and in the manner set forth in and permitted by the Corporation Law, and any other applicable law, as from time to time in effect. Such right of indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any such person may be entitled apart from he foregoing provisions. Section 7.3 Insurance. The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of Sections 7.1 and 7.2 hereof or under the Corporation Law or any other provision of law. 18
ARTICLE VIII General Provisions Section 8.1 Dividends. (a) Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, and the Equalization Agreement, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to Applicable Regulation. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property or in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and the Equalization Agreement. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, thinks proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purposes as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created. (b) The Corporation or other person paying any dividend or issuing any right on behalf of the Corporation shall be entitled to withhold therefrom any taxes required to be withheld by the laws and regulations of any taxing authority having jurisdiction in the circumstances. Section 8.2 Contracts. Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers or any agent or agents, to enter into any contract or to execute or deliver any instrument on behalf of the Corporation and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Section 8.3 Loans. The President or any other officer, employee or agent authorized to do so by the Board may effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institutions or from any firm, corporation or individual and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes, bonds or other certificates or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and, when authorized by the Board so to do, may pledge and hypothecate or transfer any securities or the property of the Corporation as security for any such loans or advances. Such authority conferred by the Board may be general or confined to specific instances or otherwise limited. Section 8.4 Checks, Drafts, Etc. All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board. Section 8.5 Deposits. The funds of the Corporation otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the order of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board may select or as may be 19
selected by a officer, employee or agent of the Corporation to whom such power may from time to time be delegated by the Board. Section 8.6 Corporate Seal. The corporate seal shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its incorporation and the words "Republic of Panama." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced. Section 8.7 Corporate Records. Every Shareholder shall, upon written demand stating the purpose thereof, have a right to inspect, in person or by agent or attorney, during the usual hours of business, for a purpose reasonably related to his interests as a Shareholder, the share register, books of account, and minutes of all proceedings, and make copies or extracts therefrom. Section 8.8 Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined, and may be changed, by resolution of the Board. Section 8.9 Amendment of By-Laws. These By-Laws may be amended in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation. Section 8.10 Effective Date. Any amendment to or any amendment and restatement of these By-Laws shall govern the affairs of the Corporation from and after the date stated in the resolution adopting the same. ARTICLE IX Definitions Section 9.1 For purposes of these By-Laws: "Amendment Date" means [.], 2003. "Annual Meeting" means the annual meeting of the Shareholders as described in Section 2.2. "Applicable Exchange Rate" means, in relation to any proposed Distributions by the Corporation and P&O Princess in relation to which a foreign exchange rate is required, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before the Distribution Determination Date relating to such Distributions (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times, or such other point of reference as the parties shall agree), or such other spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate or average US dollar-sterling exchange rate as at such other date (or over such other period) before a Distribution Determination Date as the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board shall agree, in each case rounded to five decimal places. "Applicable Regulation" means 20
(a) any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, judgment, order, decree, license, permit, directive or requirement of any Governmental Agency having jurisdiction over the Corporation; and (b) the rules, regulations, and guidelines of: (i) any stock exchange or other trading market on which any shares or other securities or depositary receipts representing such shares or securities of the Corporation or P&O Princess are listed, traded or quoted; and (ii) any other body with which entities with securities listed or quoted on such exchanges customarily comply, (but, if not having the force of law, only if compliance with such directives, requirements, rules, regulations or guidelines is in accordance with the general practice of persons to whom they are intended to apply) in each case for the time being in force and taking account all exemptions, waivers or variations from time to time applicable (in particular situations or generally) to the Corporation or, as the case may be, P&O Princess. "Articles of Incorporation" means the articles of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time. "Board of Directors" or "Board" means the board of directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee of the board of directors of the Corporation) from time to time. "Carnival Common Stock" has the same meaning as described in the Articles of Incorporation. "Carnival Deed of Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee dated as of [.], 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess pursuant to which the Corporation guarantees certain obligations of P&O Princess for the benefit of certain future creditors of P&O Princess, as amended from time to time. "Carnival Entrenched Provision" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Articles of Incorporation. "Carnival Equivalent Number" means the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Ordinary Share. Initially, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be 0.30040, but it shall adjust as provided in Clause 4 of the Equalization Agreement and the Schedule thereto. In all cases, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be rounded to five decimal places; "Carnival Special Voting Share" means the special voting share, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation. 21
"Carnival SVC" means the holder, from time to time, of the Carnival Special Voting Share. "Carnival SVC Owner" shall mean the holder, from time to time, of the equity interests in Carnival SVC. "Class Rights Action" means any of the actions listed in Section 2.18. "Combined Shareholders" means the holders of Carnival Common Stock and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares. "Corporation" means Carnival Corporation, a corporation organized and existing in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Panama. "Corporation Law" shall mean Law 32 of the Corporation Law of 1927 of the Republic of Panama, as amended. "Deeds of Guarantee" means the Carnival Deed of Guarantee and the P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee. "Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning in the Articles of Incorporation. "Equalization Agreement" means the Equalization and Governance Agreement, dated as of [.], 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess, as amended from time to time. "Equalization Ratio" means the ratio of (i) one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to (ii) the Carnival Equivalent Number; "Equalization Share" shall mean, in relation to the Corporation, any share designated as an Equalization Share in the Corporation from time to time by the Board and, in relation to P&O Princess, the Equalization Share of (Pounds)50,000 in the capital of P&O Princess. "Equivalent Resolution" means a resolution of either the Corporation or P&O Princess that is equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company. "Governmental Agency" means a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or any governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory, or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental entity and shall include any relevant competition authorities, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority. "Implementation Agreement" means the Offer and Implementation Agreement, dated as of January 8, 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess. 22
"Joint Electorate Action" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.16. "Liquidation" means, with respect to either the Corporation or P&O Princess, any liquidation, winding up, receivership, dissolution, insolvency or equivalent proceedings pursuant to which the assets of such company will be liquidated and distributed to creditors and other holders of provable claims against such company. "London Stock Exchange" means the London Stock Exchange plc. "Majority Resolution" means a resolution duly approved at a meeting of the Corporation's Shareholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes cast on such resolution by all shareholders of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon (including, where applicable, the Carnival SVC) who are present in person or by proxy at such meeting; provided that abstentions shall not be deemed to be "votes cast" for these purposes. "New York Stock Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. "Ordinary Shares" means that Carnival Common Stock and the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the context requires. "Other Voting Shares" means, with respect to any resolution to be acted on by the shareholders of the Corporation or P&O Princess, as the case may be, such shares of capital stock of that company that are entitled to vote on such resolution at a meeting of the shareholders of such company, other than the Carnival Special Voting Share, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and the Ordinary Shares (including the Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock). "P&O Princess Articles" means the P&O Princess articles of association, as amended from time to time. "P&O Princess" means P&O Princess Cruises plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales. "P&O Princess Board" means the Board of Directors of P&O Princess. "P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee dated as of [.], 2003, between P&O Princess and the Corporation whereby P&O Princess agrees to guarantee certain obligations of the Corporation for the benefit of certain future creditors of the Corporation, as amended from time to time. "P&O Princess Entrenched Provision" means those provisions designated as such in the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles. "P&O Princess Equivalent Number" has the meaning given in the definition of "Equalization Ratio." 23
"P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles" means the P&O Princess memorandum and articles of association, as amended from time to time. "P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to in the P&O Princess Articles. "P&O Princess Special Voting Share" means the special voting share of (Pounds)1 in P&O Princess. "P&O Princess SVT" shall mean P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of __________, or such other entity as replaces it pursuant to the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed. "P&O Princess SVT Agreement" shall mean the Voting Trust Agreement, forming P&O Princess SVT, between P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival, dated as of [.] 2003, as amended from time to time. "P&O Princess Trustee" means [.], as trustee of P&O Princess SVT pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement (or any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.08 thereof). "Parallel Shareholder Meeting" means, in relation to P&O Princess, any meeting of the shareholders of P&O Princess which is: (a) nearest in time to, or is contemporaneous with, the meeting of the Shareholders of the Corporation and at which some or all of the same resolutions or some or all Equivalent Resolutions are to be considered; or (b) designated by the P&O Princess Board as the parallel meeting of shareholders of a particular meeting of Shareholders of the Corporation. "Procedural Resolutions" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.20. "Shareholders" means the holders of shares of the Corporation's capital stock. "Special Meeting" means a meeting of the Shareholders other than an Annual Meeting as described in Section 2.4. "Special Voting Share" means, in relation to the Corporation, the Carnival Special Voting Share and, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share. "Supermajority Resolution" means a resolution required by Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes cast than required under a Majority Resolution, or where the percentage of votes in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by a Majority Resolution. 24
"SVE Special Voting Deed" means the SVE Special Voting Deed, dated as of [.], 2003, by and among the Corporation, Carnival SVC, Carnival SVC Owner, P&O Princess and P&O Princess Trustee, as amended from time to time. 25

Exhibit 99.7 AGREED FORM THE COMPANIES ACT 1985 ------------------------------------- A PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES ------------------------------------- MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION of P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC ------------------------------------- 1. The name of the Company is "P&O Princess Cruises plc". 2. The Company is to be a public company. 3. The registered office of the Company is to be situated in England and Wales. 4. The objects for which the Company is established are: 4.1 To enter into, operate and carry into effect the Equalization and Governance Agreement between the Company and Carnival Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Panama ("Carnival"), the SVE Special Voting Deed among, inter alia, the Company, Carnival, Carnival SVC Limited, a limited liability company organized under the laws of England and Wales, [.] as trustee of the P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of ______________, [.] and [.] and the Deed of Guarantee made between the Company and Carnival in favour of certain creditors of Carnival each as described in the circular to shareholders of the Company dated [.] 2003 with full power to: 4.1.1 agree any amendment or termination of all or any of the terms of the said Agreement or the said Deeds in accordance with the terms thereof; 4.1.2 enter into, operate and carry into effect any further or other agreements or arrangements with or in connection with Carnival; and 4.1.3 do all such things as in the opinion of the Directors are necessary or desirable for the furtherance of this object or for the furtherance, maintenance or development of the relationship with Carnival constituted by or arising out of 1
any agreement, deed or other arrangement mentioned in or made in accordance with this sub-clause. 4.2. 4.2.1 To carry on the business of ship and boat owners, forwarding and general agents, organising and conducting cruises, tours, holidays and excursions and to carry on the business as carriers of passengers and goods by sea, river, land and air, travel agents, tourist agents and contractors, insurance brokers, agents for the operators of sea, river, land and air carriage undertakings, and to provide passengers, travellers and tourists with hotel and other services and conveniences of all kinds. 4.2.2 To co-ordinate, finance and manage all or any part of the operations of any company which is a subsidiary company of or otherwise under the control of the Company and generally to carry on the business of a holding company. 4.2.3 To carry out such operations and to manufacture or deal with such goods and to purchase or otherwise acquire, take options over, construct, lease, hold, manage, maintain, alter, develop, exchange or deal with such property, rights or privileges (including the whole or part of the business, property or liabilities of any other person or company) as may seem to the board of directors directly or indirectly to advance the interests of the Company. 4.2.4 To enter into such commercial or other transactions in connection with any trade or business of the Company as may seem to the board of directors desirable for the purpose of the Company's affairs. 4.2.5 To apply for, purchase or otherwise acquire, protect, maintain and renew any patents, patent rights, trade marks, designs, licences and other intellectual property rights of all kinds or any secret or other information as to any invention and to use, exercise, develop or grant licences in respect of, or otherwise turn to account the property, rights or information so acquired and to experiment with any such rights which the Company may propose to acquire. 4.2.6 To invest and deal with the moneys of the Company not immediately required in any manner and hold and deal with any investment so made. 4.2.7 To pay or to provide or to make such arrangements for providing such gratuities, pensions, benefits, share option and acquisition schemes, loans and other matters and to establish, support, subsidise and subscribe to any institutions, associations, clubs, schemes, funds or trusts (whether to or for the benefit of present or past directors or employees of the Company or its predecessors in business or of any company which is a subsidiary company of the Company or is allied to or associated with the Company or with any such subsidiary company or to or for or for the benefit of persons who are or were related to or connected with or dependants of any such directors or employees) as may seem to the board of directors directly or indirectly to advance the interests of the Company. 2
4.2.8 To draw, make, accept, endorse, discount, negotiate, execute and issue promissory notes, bills of exchange, bills of lading, warrants, debentures and other negotiable and transferable instruments. 4.2.9 To act as agents, brokers or trustees, and to enter into such arrangements (whether by way of amalgamation, partnership, profit sharing, union of interests, co-operation, joint venture or otherwise) with other persons or companies as may seem to the board of directors to advance the interests of the Company and to vest any property of the Company in any person or company on behalf of the Company and with or without any declaration of trust in favour of the Company. 4.2.10 To apply for, promote and obtain any Act of Parliament, charter, privilege, concession, licence or authorisation of any government, state or municipality, or any other department or authority, or enter into arrangements with any such body, for enabling the Company to carry any of its objects into effect or for extending any of the powers of the Company or for effecting any modification of the constitution of the Company or for any other purpose which may seem to the board of directors to be expedient, and to oppose any proceedings or applications which may seem calculated directly or indirectly to prejudice the interests of the Company. 4.2.11 To sell, lease, dispose of, grant rights over or otherwise deal with the whole or any part of the undertaking, property or assets of the Company on such terms as the board of directors may decide, and to distribute any property or assets of the Company of whatever kind in specie among the members of the Company. 4.2.12 To pay for any rights or property acquired by the Company or any of its subsidiaries and to remunerate any person or company, whether by cash payment or by the allotment of shares, debentures or other securities of the Company credited as paid up in full or in part, or by any other method the board of directors thinks fit. 4.2.13 To establish or promote companies and to place or guarantee the placing of, underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire, hold, dispose of and deal with, and guarantee the payment of interest, dividends and capital on all or any of the shares, debentures, debenture stock or other securities or obligations of any company or association and to pay or provide for brokerage, commission and underwriting in respect of any such issue on such terms as the board of directors may decide. 4.2.14 To carry on through any subsidiary or associated company any activities which the Company is authorised to carry on and to make any arrangements whatsoever with such company (including any arrangements for taking the profits or bearing the losses of any such activities) as the board of directors thinks fit. 4.2.15 To raise or borrow money in such manner as the board of directors thinks fit and to receive deposits and to mortgage, charge, pledge or give liens or other security over the whole or any part of the Company's undertaking, property and assets (whether present or future), including its uncalled capital, for such 3
purposes and in such circumstances and on such terms and conditions as the board of directors thinks fit. 4.2.16 To lend or advance money and to give credit and to enter (whether gratuitously or otherwise) into guarantees or indemnities of all kinds, and whether secured or unsecured, whether in respect of its own obligations or those of some other person or company, in such circumstances and on such terms and conditions as the board of directors thinks fit. 4.2.17 To pay or agree to pay all or any of the promotion, formation and registration expenses of the Company. 4.2.18 To contribute to or support any public, general, political, charitable, benevolent or useful object, which it seems to the board of directors to be in the interests of the Company or its members to contribute to or support. 4.2.19 To do all or any of the things stated in this clause 4 in any part of the world whether as principal, agent or trustee or otherwise and either alone or jointly with others and either by or through agents, subcontractors, trustees or otherwise. 4.2.20 To do all such other things as the board of directors considers will further the interests of the Company or to be incidental or conducive to the attainment of all or any of the objects stated in this clause 4. 5. The objects stated in each part of clause 4 shall not be restrictively construed but shall be given the widest interpretation. In clause 4, the word "company" shall be deemed, except where used to refer to the Company, to include any partnership or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate and whether domiciled in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. Except where the context expressly so requires, none of the sub-clauses of clause 4, or the objects stated in clause 4, or the powers conferred by clause 4 shall be limited by, or be deemed subsidiary or auxiliary to, any other sub-clause of clause 4, or any other object stated in clause 4 or any other power conferred by clause 4. 6. The liability of the members is limited. 7. The share capital of the Company is (Pounds)50,000 divided into 2 subscriber shares of (Pounds)1 each and 49,998 redeemable preference shares of (Pounds)1 each/1/. - --------------------- /1/ This is the share capital of the Company as at 28 July 2000. A statement of the Company's share capital on incorporation is given at the end of the memorandum of association. 4
We, the subscribers to this memorandum of association, wish to be formed into a company pursuant to this memorandum. We agree to take the number of shares shown opposite our respective names. Name and address of subscriber Number of shares taken Michael Gradon One Subscriber Share The Summer House 18 Granville Road Limpsfield, Oxted Surrey RH8 0DA Nicholas Luff One Subscriber Share 30 Kings Avenue Carshalton Surrey SM5 4NX Total shares taken Two Subscriber Shares Date: Witness to signatures: 5

Exhibit 99.8 AGREED FORM ------------------------------------------ A PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES ------------------------------------------ ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION of P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC (the Company) ([ ]) ---------------------------------------- 1
2
PRELIMINARY Table A 1. Regulations in Table A as in force at the date of the incorporation of the Company shall not apply to the Company. Definitions 2. In these Articles, except where the subject or context otherwise requires: "Act" means the Companies Act 1985 including any modification or re-enactment of it for the time being in force; "Acting in Concert" has the same meaning as it has in the City Code provided that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, none of (x) the Arison Group, (y) the Carnival Group or (z) the P&O Princess Group (each, a "Non-Concert Group"), shall be deemed to be Acting in Concert with any other Non-Concert [Group] for the purposes of these Articles; "Action" means, in relation to Carnival or the Company, any action affecting the amount or nature of issued share capital of such company, including any non-cash Distribution, offer by way of rights, bonus issue, sub-division or consolidation, or buy-back; "Acts" means the Act and all other statutes and subordinate legislation for the time being in force concerning companies so far as they apply to the Company; "address" in relation to electronic communications, includes any number or address used for the purposes of such communications; a person shall be treated as "Appearing to be Interested" in any Ordinary Shares if: (a) the Company has received a notification which either: (i) states that such person is, or may be, Interested in such Ordinary Shares; (ii) fails to establish the identities of those Interested in the Ordinary Shares and (after taking into account any notification and any relevant information) the directors know or have reasonable cause to believe that the person in question is, or may be, Interested in the Ordinary Shares; or (b) the directors know or have reasonable cause to believe that the person in question is, or may be, Interested in the Ordinary Shares; "Applicable Exchange Rate" means, in relation to any proposed Distributions by the Company and Carnival in relation to which a foreign exchange rate is required, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before the Distribution Determination Date relating to such Distributions (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times, or such other point of reference as the parties shall agree), or such other spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate or average US dollar-sterling exchange rate as at such other date (or over such other period) before a Distribution Determination Date as the Board and the Board of Carnival shall agree, in each case rounded to five decimal places; 3
"Applicable Regulations" means; (a) any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, judgement, order, decree, licence, permit, directive or requirement of any Governmental Agency having jurisdiction over P&O Princess and/or Carnival; and (b) the rules, regulations, and guidelines of: (i) any stock exchange or other trading market on which any shares or other securities or depositary receipts representing such shares or securities of either P&O Princess or Carnival are listed, traded or quoted; and (ii) any other body with which entities with securities listed or quoted on such exchanges customarily comply, (but, if not having the force of law, only if compliance with such directives, requirements, rules, regulations or guidelines is in accordance with the general practice of persons to whom they are intended to apply) in each case for the time being in force and taking account all exemptions, waivers or variations from time to time applicable (in particular situations or generally) to the Company or, as the case may be, Carnival; "Arison Group" shall mean each of Marilyn B. Arison, Micky Arison, Shari Arison, Michael Arison or their spouses or children or lineal descendants of Marilyn B. Arison, Micky Arison, Shari Arison, Michael Arison of their spouses, any trust established by Theodore Arison, any trust established for the benefit of any Arison family member mentioned in this definition, or any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by or under common control with any Arison family member mentioned in this definition or any trust established for the benefit of any such Arison family member or any charitable trust or non-profit entity established by a member of the Arison Group but excluding (for the avoidance of doubt) Carnival, the Company or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates. "Articles" means these articles of association as altered from time to time by special resolution; "Associated Tax Credit" means, in relation to any Distribution proposed to be made by the Company, the amount of any imputed or associated Tax credit or rebate or exemption (or the value of any other similar associated Tax Benefit) which would be available to a holder of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares receiving or entitled to receive the Distribution, together with the amount of any credit or benefit in respect of any Tax required to be deducted or withheld from the Distribution by or on behalf of the Company; "Auditors" means the auditors of the Company; "beneficially own" shall mean to possess beneficial ownership as determined under Rule 13d-3 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934; "Board" means the board of directors of the Company (or a duly authorised committee of the board of directors of the Company) from time to time; 4
"Board of Carnival" means the board of directors of Carnival (or a duly authorised committee of the board of directors of Carnival) from time to time; "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banking institutions in the cities of both New York and London are authorised or obligated by law or executive order to close in the United Sates or England (or on which day such banking institutions are open solely for trading in euros); "Carnival" means Carnival Corporation; "Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning set out in the Carnival Constitution; "Carnival Constitution" means the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of Carnival as amended from time to time; "Carnival Entrenched Provisions" means the Carnival Entrenched Articles and the Carnival Entrenched By-Laws as defined in the Carnival Constitution; "Carnival Equivalent Number" means the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Ordinary Share. Initially, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be 0.30040 but it shall adjust as provided in Clause 4 of the Equalization Agreement and the Schedule thereto. In all cases, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be rounded to five decimal places; "Carnival Group" means Carnival and its Subsidiaries and associated undertakings from time to time; "Carnival Guarantee" means the guarantee of the same date as the Equalization Agreement between Carnival and the Company under which Carnival agrees to guarantee certain obligations of the Company for the benefit of certain future creditors of the Company, as amended from time to time; "Carnival Special Voting Share" means the special voting share in the capital of Carnival having the rights set out in the Carnival Constitution; "Carnival SVC" means the holder, from time to time, of the Carnival Special Voting Share; "Carnival SVC Owner" means the holder, from time to time, of the equity interests in Carnival SVC; "certificated share" means a share in the capital of the Company that is not an uncertificated share and references in these Articles to a share being held in certificated form shall be construed accordingly; "Charitable Beneficiary" means any registered charity or similar body or organisation; "City Code" means the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers as amended from time to time (including any supplemental or replacement Applicable Regulations), and including any actions required, or approved, by any relevant governing or supervisory body with authority in relation to the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (or any replacement); 5
"Class Rights Action" means any of the actions listed in Article 124; "clear days" in relation to the sending of a notice means the period excluding the day on which a notice is sent or deemed to be sent and the day for which it is sent or on which it is to take effect; "Combined Group" means the Company, Carnival and their respective subsidiaries; "Combined Group City Code Limit" means, at any time (i) with respect to any person other than a Significant Combined Group Holder (or persons Acting in Concert), such Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Carnival Common Stock) representing, in aggregate and after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, the right to cast 30 per cent. of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time, or (ii) with respect to a Significant Combined Group Holder only, any further Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock) which increase that person's percentage of votes which could be cast on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time; "Combined Group Excess Shares" means the Ordinary Shares designated as such pursuant to Article 279; "Combined Group Excess Share Trust" means any trust established by the Company for the purposes, inter alia, of holding Combined Group Restricted Shares on behalf of, and for the benefit of, a Charitable Beneficiary; "Combined Group Excess Share Trustee" means any body corporate, association or other person appointed as a trustee by the Company who is empowered to hold, possess, dispose of and/or deal with the Combined Group Restricted Shares; "Combined Group Restricted Shares" means the Ordinary Shares as determined by reference to Article 277; "Combined Shareholders" means the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the holders of Carnival Common Stock; "Companies Acts" has the meaning given by section 744 of the Act and includes any enactment passed after those Acts which may, by virtue of that or any other such enactment, be cited together with those Acts as the "Companies Acts" (with or without the addition of an indication of the date of any such enactment); "Compulsory Acquisition" means, with respect to a class of shares in the capital of P&O Princess, a compulsory acquisition of such class of shares in accordance with section 428 of the Act; "director" means a director of the Company; "Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to it in Article 21A; "Distribution" means, in relation to the Company or Carnival, any dividend or other distribution, whether of income or capital, and in whatever form, made by the Company or Carnival (or any of their subsidiaries) to the holders of Ordinary Shares by way of pro rata entitlement, excluding any Liquidation Distribution, buy-back, repurchase or cancellation of Ordinary Shares; 6
"Distribution Determination Date" means, with respect to any parallel Distributions to be made by the Company and Carnival, the date on which the Board and the Board of Carnival resolve to pay or make such parallel Distributions (or if they resolve on different dates to pay or make such parallel Distributions, the later of those dates); "dividend" means dividend or bonus; "electronic signature" has the meaning given by section 7(2) of the Electronic Communications Act 2000; "employees' share scheme" has the meaning given by section 743 of the Act; "entitled by transmission" means, in relation to a share in the capital of the Company, entitled as a consequence of the death or bankruptcy of the holder or otherwise by operation of law; "Equalization Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Company and Carnival and entitled the Equalization and Governance Agreement, as amended from time to time; "Equalization Distribution" shall have the meaning set out in Article 234; "Equalization Distribution Amount" means the amount of any Distribution proposed to be paid or made by the Company or Carnival on its Ordinary Shares, before deduction of any amount in respect of Tax required to be deducted or withheld from such Distribution by or on behalf of such company and excluding the amount of any Associated Tax Credit, all such amounts being expressed in the currency of payment and on a per share basis; "Equalization Ratio" means, at any time, the ratio of (i) one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to (ii) the Carnival Equivalent Number as of such time; "Equalization Share" means, in relation to the Company, an Equalization Share in the capital of the Company with a par value of (pound)50,000 having the rights set out in Article 22 and, in relation to Carnival, any share in the capital of Carnival designated as an Equalization Share from time to time by the Board of Carnival; "Equivalent Resolution" means a resolution of either the Company or Carnival that is equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company; "Exchange Event" means any of the following: (a) there shall have occurred any change in the tax laws, rules or regulations applicable to the Company and/or Carnival and/or their shareholders or in the application or interpretation thereof (collectively, a "Change In Tax Law") and the Board shall have reasonably determined, based on an opinion of a recognised independent tax counsel experienced in such matters and after using its commercially reasonable efforts to explore the available alternatives to the Mandatory Exchange in consultation with such counsel and external financial advisors, that (x) such Change In Tax Law is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company and Carnival, considered as a single enterprise (a "Material Adverse Tax Effect"), (y) it is reasonably likely that such Material Adverse Tax Effect would be eliminated or substantially reduced by a Mandatory 7
Exchange and (z) such Material Adverse Tax Effect could not be substantially eliminated by any commercially reasonable alternative to such Mandatory Exchange; (b) either (A) there shall have occurred any change in the non-tax laws, rules or regulations applicable to the Company and/or Carnival or in the application or interpretation thereof (collectively, a "Change In Other Law") as a result of which the Board has reasonably determined that, and has received a written legal opinion from independent counsel to the effect that, it is reasonably likely that, or (B) any court, governmental entity or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction shall have issued any ruling, judgement, decree or order which has been appealed to the extent the Board reasonably determined was appropriate in the circumstances (the "Final Order") finding, holding or declaring that, in either of cases (A) or (B), all or a substantial part of the contracts between, and the constituent documents of, the Company and Carnival that create the Combined Group (the "DLC Arrangements") are unlawful, illegal or unenforceable (collectively, an "Illegality Event") and the Board shall have reasonably determined, based on an opinion of a recognised independent counsel and after using its commercially reasonable efforts to explore the available alternatives to the Mandatory Exchange in consultation with such counsel and external financial advisors, that (x) the legal basis for the Illegality Event would be eliminated by a Mandatory Exchange, (y) the Illegality Event could not be eliminated by any amendments to the DLC Arrangements that would not materially and adversely affect the rights of the shareholders of the Company or Carnival, taken together or in relation to each other and (z) the Change in Other Law or Final Order is reasonably likely to be enforced in a way that will have a material adverse effect on the Company and Carnival, considered as a single enterprise; "Exchange Notice" means a notice that is served on the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shareholders subsequent to the occurrence of an Exchange Event; "Governmental Agency" means a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental entity and shall include without limitation any relevant competition authorities, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing Authority, the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange; "holder" in relation to a share in the capital of the Company means the member whose name is entered in the register as the holder of that share; A person shall be deemed to be "Interested" or to have an "Interest" in Ordinary Shares if such person has an interest which would be taken into account, or which he would be taken as having, in determining for the purposes of Part VI of the Act whether a person has a notification interest in a share (including any interest which he would be taken as having for the purposes) but shall not be deemed to be "Interested" or to have an "Interest" in shares which he holds as a bare or custodian trustee under the law of England or as a simple trustee under the law of Scotland; "Joint Electorate Action" shall have the meaning set out in Article 126; 8
"Liquidation" means, with respect to either the Company or Carnival, any liquidation, winding up, receivership, dissolution, insolvency or equivalent proceedings pursuant to which the assets of either the Company or Carnival will be liquidated and distributed to creditors and other holders of recognisable claims against such company; "Liquidation Distribution" means in relation to the Company or Carnival, any dividend or other distribution per Ordinary Share, whether of income or capital and in whatever form, made or to be made by such company or any of its Subsidiaries to the holders of such company's Ordinary Shares by way of pro rata entitlement in connection with the Liquidation of such company; "Liquidation Exchange Rate" means as at any date, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before such date (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times), or such other point of reference as the Board and the Board of Carnival or the Board and liquidators of Carnival or the Board of Carnival and the liquidators of the Company or the liquidators of both the Company and Carnival, as the case may be, may determine in each case rounded to five decimal places; "London Stock Exchange" means London Stock Exchange plc; "Mandatory Exchange" shall have the meaning set out in Article 289; "Market Price" means the average of the daily closing price of an Ordinary Share on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List, over the five consecutive Dealing Days prior to the relevant date; "member" means, unless the context otherwise requires, a member of the Company; "Member Present" means, in connection with a meeting, a member present at the venue or venues for the meeting, in person or by proxy, by attorney or, where the member is a body corporate, by representative; "Memorandum" means the memorandum of association of the Company as amended from time to time; "NYSE" means New York Stock Exchange, Inc; "office" means the registered office of the Company; "Operator" means the "Operator" of the "relevant system", in each case as defined in the Regulations; "Ordinary Share" means a P&O Princess Ordinary Share and/or a share of Carnival Common Stock, as the context requires; "paid" means paid or credited as paid; "Parallel Shareholder Meeting" means, in relation to Carnival, any meeting of the shareholders of Carnival which is: (a) nearest in time to, or contemporaneous with, the meeting of the shareholders of the Company and at which some or all of the same resolutions or some or all Equivalent Resolutions are to be considered; or 9
(b) designated by the Board of Carnival as the parallel meeting of shareholders of a particular general meeting of the shareholders of the Company; "P&O Princess" means the Company; "P&O Princess Entrenched Provision" means Articles 19, 20, 21, 21A, 22, 52, 76, 77, 96, 97, 98, 112, 113, 124 to 132 (inclusive), 136, 147, 174, 177, 189, 194, 195(c), 234 to 237 (inclusive), 272 to 275 (inclusive), 277 to 287 (inclusive) and 289 to 292 (inclusive) and the definitions referred to therein; "P&O Princess Guarantee" means the guarantee of the same date as the Equalization Agreement between the Company and Carnival under which the Company agrees to guarantee certain obligations of Carnival for the benefit of certain future creditors of Carnival, as amended from time to time; "P&O Princess Group" means the Company and its Subsidiaries and associated undertakings from time to time; "P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" means ordinary shares in the capital of the Company (and, in respect of Articles 125 and 128 only, will include any class of share entitled to vote on the relevant resolution), excluding the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and the Equalization Share, and except with respect to any voting rights (as described in Articles 147 and 148), on a Liquidation (as described in Articles 272-276 inclusive) and rights on a Mandatory Exchange (as described in Articles 289-292 inclusive), shall also include the Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares; "P&O Princess Special Voting Share" means the special voting share in the capital of the Company (having the rights set out in and referred to in Article 19); "P&O Princess SVT" means P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of _____________, or such other entity as replaces it pursuant to the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed; "P&O Princess SVT Agreement" means the Voting Trust Agreement, establishing P&O Princess SVT, between P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival, dated as of [.] 2003, as amended from time to time; "P&O Princess Trustee" means [.], as trustee of P&O Princess SVT pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement (or any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.08 thereof); "Qualifying Takeover Offer" means an offer or offers to acquire Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary shares (i) which would be in accordance with the provisions of the City Code to the extent that the City Code applies to the Combined Group, and (ii) which: (a) are made to all holders of Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares; and (b) are undertaken with respect to the Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares at or about the same time; and (c) comply with all Applicable Regulations, the Carnival Constitution and these Articles; and 10
(d) each of the Board of Directors of Carnival and the Board determines are equivalent to the holders of Carnival Common Stock, on the one hand, and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, on the other hand, with respect to: (1) the consideration offered for such shares (taking into account exchange rates and any difference in the share price of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Carnival Common Stock determined by the Board and the Board of Carnival in their sole discretion to be appropriate and taking into account the Equalization Ratio); (2) the information provided to such holders; (3) the time available to such holders to consider such offers; (4) the conditions to which the offer(s) is subject; and (5) such other terms of the offer(s) which the Board and the Board of Carnival shall determine are relevant. "recognised person" means a recognised clearing house or a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised investment exchange, each of which terms having the meaning given to it by section 185(4) of the Act; "register" means the register of members of the Company; "Regulations" means the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001; "seal" means the common seal of the Company and includes any official seal kept by the Company by virtue of section 39 or 40 of the Act; "secretary" means the secretary of the Company and includes a joint, assistant, deputy or temporary secretary and any other person appointed to perform the duties of the secretary; "Significant Combined Group Holder" means any person who, after complying with the provisions of Articles 277 to 287, whether solely or together with any party Acting in Concert with such person, holds or exercises voting control over Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock) representing, in aggregate and after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, the right to cast not less than 30 per cent and not more than 50 per cent of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time; "Special Resolution" means, with respect to the Company or Carnival, a resolution required by Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Constitution or the Memorandum and these Articles, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes voted than required under an ordinary resolution, or where the percentages of votes in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by an ordinary resolution; "subsidiary" means with respect to the Company or Carnival, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar 11
functions, or the management and policies of which such company otherwise has the power to direct; "Substantive Resolution" means any resolution of the Company to be considered at a general meeting other than a resolution of a procedural or technical nature; "Tax" means any taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings or duties levied by any authority (including stamp and transaction duties) (together with any related interest, penalties, fines and expenses in connection with them); "Tax Benefit" means any credit, rebate, exemption or benefit in respect of Tax available to any person; "uncertificated share" means a share in the capital of the Company which is recorded on the register as being held in uncertificated form and title to which may, by virtue o the Regulations, be transferred by means of a relevant system and references in these Articles to a share being held in uncertificated form shall be construed accordingly; "United Kingdom" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland; and "Voting Agreement" means the deed entered into among the Company, Carnival, Carnival SVC, Carnival SVC Owner and P&O Princess Trustee and entitled the SVE Special Voting Deed, as amended or novated from time to time, and shall include any deed entered into to replace that deed or any such replacement. CONSTRUCTION 3. References to a document include, unless the context otherwise requires, references to an electronic communication. 4. References to an electronic communication mean, unless the contrary is stated, an electronic communication (as defined in the Act) comprising writing. 5. References to a document being executed include references to its being executed under hand or under seal or, in the case of an electronic communication, by electronic signature. 6. References to an instrument mean, unless the contrary is stated, a written document having tangible form and not comprised in an electronic communication (as defined in the Act). 7. Where, in relation to a share, these Articles refer to a relevant system, the reference is to the relevant system in which that share is a participating security at the relevant time. 8. References to a notice or other document being sent to a person by the Company include references to such notice or other document, or a copy of such notice or other document, being sent, given, delivered, issued or made available to, or served on, that person by any method authorised by these Articles, and sending shall be construed accordingly. 9. References to writing mean the representation or reproduction of words, symbols or other information in a visible form by any method or combination of methods, whether 12
comprised in an electronic communication (as defined in the Act) or otherwise, and written shall be construed accordingly. 10. Words denoting the singular number include the plural number and vice versa; words denoting the masculine gender include the feminine gender; and words denoting persons include corporations. 11. Words or expressions contained in these Articles which are not defined in Article 2 but are defined in the Act have the same meaning as in the Act (but excluding any modification of the Act not in force at the date of adoption of these Articles) unless inconsistent with the subject or context. 12. Words or expressions contained in these Articles which are not defined in Article 2 but are defined in the Regulations have the same meaning as in the Regulations (but excluding any modification of the Regulations not in force at the date of adoption of these Articles) unless inconsistent with the subject or context. 13. Subject to the preceding two paragraphs, references to any provision of any enactment or of any subordinate legislation (as defined by section 21(1) of the Interpretation Act 1978) include any modification or re-enactment of that provision for the time being in force. 14. Headings and marginal notes are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the construction of these Articles. 15. In these Articles, (a) powers of delegation shall not be restrictively construed but the widest interpretation shall be given to them; (b) the word Board or board in the context of the exercise of any power contained in these Articles includes any validly appointed committee; (c) no power of delegation shall be limited by the existence or, except where expressly provided by the terms of delegation, the exercise of that or any other power of delegation; and (d) except where expressly provided by the terms of delegation, the delegation of a power shall not exclude the concurrent exercise of that power by any other body or person who is for the time being authorised to exercise it under these Articles or under another delegation of the power. SHARE CAPITAL Share capital 16. The authorised share capital of the Company on the adoption of these Articles is (Pounds)100,001 divided into 2 subscriber shares of (Pounds)1 each, 49,998 redeemable preference shares of (Pounds)1 each, one P&O Princess Special Voting Share of (Pounds)1 and one Equalization Share of (Pounds)50,000 and US$375 million divided into 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each. 17. The two subscriber shares have no rights whatsoever, including without limitation the right to receive notice, attend and vote at a general or extraordinary meeting, the right to receive dividends and the right to receive the payment of capital upon a distribution of assets. Return of Capital 18. If on any return of capital to a shareholder of the Company there is any fraction of a cent, or pence as the case may be in respect of the amount due to be paid to holder of any P&O 13
Princess Ordinary Share, such fraction shall, to the extent permitted by Applicable Regulations, be rounded up to the nearest whole cent or pence as the case may be. P&O Princess Special Voting Share 19. The P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall confer on the holder of such share the relevant rights set out in these Articles, but shall cease to confer any right to receive notice of, attend or vote at any general meeting if either: (a) the Equalization Agreement is terminated; or (b) a resolution to terminate the Voting Agreement is approved by both Carnival and the Company as a Class Rights Action. 20. On a distribution of assets of the Company on a Liquidation of the Company, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall rank after the holders of Ordinary Shares and redeemable preference shares but ahead of the Equalization Share for repayment of any capital paid up or credited as paid up and shall only be entitled to repayment of the nominal value paid up on its share. The P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall not be entitled to receive any dividends. 21. The rights attaching to the P&O Princess Special Voting Share may be varied by a resolution approved as a Class Rights Action. Where the proposed variation increases the obligations of the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, such variation shall also require the consent of the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share. 21A. All shares in the capital of the Company carrying liquidation rights and/or voting rights acquired by any member of the Carnival Group, whether pursuant to the partial share offer by Carnival for up to 20 per cent. of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares dated [.] or otherwise, shall automatically be converted on the first day that such shares are beneficially owned by such member of the Carnival Group into disenfranchised shares ("Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares") which will rank pari passu with all of the shares of the same class, save that such shares shall not have any rights: (a) to attend or vote at any general meeting or class meeting of the Company unless at the relevant date the Carnival Group is entitled to effect a Compulsory Acquisition of such class of shares (treating for the purpose of such calculation, any shares of such class that are Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares as if this Article 21A did not apply to such shares); or (b) to receive any distribution upon Liquidation. Following the transfer of any Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares from the Carnival Group to a person who is not a member of, or Acting in Concert with, the Combined Group such Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares shall automatically be reclassified on the day that such shares are, following such transfer, registered in the register of members of the Company into shares of the same class carrying liquidation rights and/or voting rights. Equalization Share 22. The Equalization Share shall: 14
(a) have no rights to receive notice of, attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company; (b) have rights to dividends as declared and paid by the Board as interim dividends declared on that share from time to time; and (c) on a distribution of assets of the Company on a Liquidation of the Company, rank after all other holders of shares for repayment of any capital paid up or credited as paid up. Shares with special rights 23. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the provisions of Articles 124 to 129 and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company, as to any such class, may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the Board shall determine. Share warrants to bearer 24. Subject to the provisions of Articles 124 to 129, the Board may issue share warrants to bearer in respect of any fully paid shares under a seal of the Company or in any other manner authorised by the Board. Any share while represented by such a warrant shall be transferable by delivery of the warrant relating to it. In any case in which a warrant is so issued, the Board may provide for the payment of dividends or other moneys on the shares represented by the warrant by coupons or otherwise. The Board may decide, either generally or in any particular case or cases, that any signature on a warrant may be applied by mechanical means or printed on it or that the warrant need not be signed by any person. Conditions of issue of share warrants 25. The Board may determine, and from time to time vary, the conditions on which share warrants to bearer shall be issued and, in particular, the conditions on which: (a) a new warrant or coupon shall be issued in place of one which has been worn-out, defaced, lost or destroyed (but no new warrant shall be issued unless the Company is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the original has been destroyed); or (b) the bearer shall be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings; or (c) a warrant may be surrendered and the name of the bearer entered in the register in respect of the shares specified in the warrant. The bearer of such a warrant shall be subject to the conditions for the time being in force in relation to the warrant, whether made before or after the issue of the warrant. Subject to those conditions and to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the bearer shall be deemed to be a member of the Company and shall have the same rights and privileges as he would have if his name had been included in the register as the holder of the shares comprised in the warrant. 15
No right in relation to share 26. The Company shall not be bound by or be compelled in any way to recognise any right in respect of the share represented by a share warrant other than the bearer's absolute right to the warrant. Uncertificated shares 27. Subject to the provisions of the Regulations, the Board may permit the holding of shares in any class of shares in uncertificated form and the transfer of title to shares in that class by means of a relevant system and may determine that any class of shares shall cease to be a participating security. Not separate class of shares 28. Shares in the capital of the Company that fall within a certain class shall not form a separate class of shares from other shares in that class because any share in that class: (a) is held in uncertificated form; or (b) is permitted in accordance with the Regulations to become a participating security. Exercise of Company's entitlements in respect of uncertificated shares 29. Where any class of shares is a participating security and the Company is entitled under any provision of the Companies Acts, the Regulations or these Articles to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, forfeit, re-allot, accept the surrender of or otherwise enforce a lien over a share held in uncertificated form, the Company shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Regulations, these Articles and the facilities and requirements of the relevant system: (a) to require the holder of that uncertificated share by notice to change that share into certificated form within the period specified in the notice and to hold that share in certificated form so long as required by the Company; (b) to require the holder of that uncertificated share by notice to give any instructions necessary to transfer title to that share by means of the relevant system within the period specified in the notice; (c) to require the holder of that uncertificated share by notice to appoint any person to take any step, including without limitation the giving of any instructions by means of the relevant system, necessary to transfer that share within the period specified in the notice; and (d) to take any action that the Board considers appropriate to achieve the sale, transfer, disposal, forfeiture, re-allotment or surrender of that share or otherwise to enforce a lien in respect of that share, including giving notice to any person that the share should be converted into certificated form. 16
Section 80 authority 30. The Board has general and unconditional authority to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to the section 80 amount, for each prescribed period. Section 89 disapplication 31. The Board is empowered for each prescribed period to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Article 30 as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that its power shall be limited to: (a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as practicable) to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws or regulations of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and (b) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to Article 31) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to the section 89 amount. Allotment after expiry 32. Before the expiry of a prescribed period the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities or other relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry. The Board may allot equity securities or other relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the prescribed period during which that offer or agreement was made had not expired. Further Definitions 33. In Articles 30 to 33: "prescribed period" means any period for which the authority conferred by Article 30 is given by ordinary or special resolution stating the section 80 amount and/or the power conferred by Article 31 is given by special resolution stating the section 89 amount; "section 80 amount" means, for any prescribed period, the amount stated in the relevant ordinary or special resolution; and "section 89 amount" means, for any prescribed period, the amount stated in the relevant special resolution. Residual allotment powers 34. Subject to Articles 124 to 129, the provisions of the Companies Acts relating to authority, pre-emption rights or otherwise and of any resolution of the Company in general meeting passed pursuant to those provisions, the provisions of Articles 124 to 129 and, in the case of redeemable shares, the provisions of Article 35: 17
(a) all unissued shares for the time being in the capital of the Company shall be at the disposal of the Board; and (b) the Board may allot (with or without conferring a right of renunciation), grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such persons on such terms and conditions and at such times as it thinks fit. REDEEMABLE SHARES Redeemable shares 35. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, shares may be issued which are to be redeemed or are to be liable to be redeemed at the option of the Company on such terms and in such manner as may be provided by these Articles. Redeemable Preference Shares 36. The rights attaching to the redeemable preference shares are as follows: Dividends 37. The holders of redeemable preference shares shall be entitled, in priority to the holders of any other class of shares in the Company's share capital, to receive out of the profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved under the Articles to be distributed in respect of each financial year of the Company a fixed cumulative preferential dividend (the "Preference Dividend") at the rate of 8 per cent. per annum on the amount for the time being paid up on each redeemable preference share held by them respectively, save that no Preference Dividend shall accrue in respect of any redeemable preference share not in issue. 38. The Preference Dividend shall accrue on a daily basis and shall be payable annually in arrears on 31 December ("Annual Preference Dividend Payment Date"), or if such date is not a Business Day, on the next following Business Day, in respect of the year ending on that date. The first such payment shall be made on the 31 December following the issue in respect of the period from the date of the issue of the redeemable preference shares concerned until such date. The Preference Dividend shall be paid to the holders of the issued redeemable preference shares whose names appear on the register at 12 noon on any date selected by the directors up to 42 days before the relevant dividend payment date. Capital 39. On a distribution of assets of the Company among its members on a winding up or other return of capital (other than a redemption or purchase by the Company of its own shares), the holders of the redeemable preference shares shall rank behind the holders of Ordinary Shares but ahead of the holders of any other classes of shares of the Company in relation to the payment of any capital paid up or credited as paid up on each redeemable preference share. No further rights to dividends or capital 40. Save as provided in Articles 37, 38 and 39, the holders of the redeemable preference shares shall not be entitled to any participation in the profits or assets of the Company. 18
Voting 41. The holders of redeemable preference shares shall not have any rights to vote. Redemption 42. Subject to the Act, the Company shall have the right at any time to redeem any redeemable preference shares (provided that they are credited as fully paid) by giving to the registered holder written notice of its intention to do so (the "Redemption Notice"). 43. The Redemption Notice must specify the number of redeemable preference shares to be redeemed, the amount payable on redemption and the date and time (the "Redemption Date") and place in England at which: (a) the share certificates in respect of the redeemable preference shares must be delivered to the Company for cancellation; and (b) the Company shall pay to the registered holders of the redeemable preference shares to be redeemed the redemption money in respect of such redeemable preference shares together with a sum equal to any arrears and accruals of the Preference Dividend (whether accrued or declared or not) and any interest payable calculated down to the date of such repayment. The holders of the redeemable preference shares to be redeemed shall be bound by the Redemption Notice. 44. The amount to be paid on redemption of each redeemable preference share shall equal the amount credited as paid up on it (including any share premium) together with all arrears or accruals of the Preference Dividend (whether accrued, declared or not) calculated up to and including the Redemption Date and in the case of a partial redemption proportionately in respect of each holding of redeemable preference shares. 45. The redeemable preference shares shall be redeemed on or before 31 December 2050 and if, in accordance with the Act, the redeemable preference shares shall not on any such date be capable of being redeemed by the Company, such redemption shall be effected as soon as possible after the redeemable preference shares have become capable of being redeemed. 46. The Preference Dividend shall cease to accrue on any redeemable preference shares, which are to be redeemed, on the Redemption Date. 47. If any holder of a redeemable preference share to be redeemed fails or refuses to surrender the share certificate for such redeemable preference share (or fails or refuses to accept the redemption money payable in respect of it), the Company shall retain such money and hold it on trust for such holder but without interest or further obligation whatever. 48. No redeemable preference share shall be redeemed otherwise than out of distributable profits or the proceeds of a fresh issue of shares made for the purposes of the redemption or out of capital to the extent permitted by the Act but any premium payable on redemption shall be paid either out of distributable profits, or to the extent permitted by law, out of the share premium account of the Company. 19
49. No redeemable preference share redeemed by the Company shall be capable of re-issue and on redemption of any redeemable preference shares the directors may convert the authorised share capital created as a consequence of such redemption into shares of any other class of share capital into which the authorised share capital of the Company is or may at that time be divided of a like nominal amount (as nearly as may be) as the shares of such class then in issue or into unclassified shares of the same nominal amount as the redeemable preference shares. Commissions 50. The Company may exercise all powers of paying commissions or brokerage conferred or permitted by the Companies Acts. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, any such commission or brokerage may be satisfied by the payment of cash or by the allotment of fully or partly paid shares or partly in one way and partly in the other. Trusts not recognised 51. Except as required by law or as otherwise provided by these Articles, the Company shall recognise no person as holding any share on any trust and (except as otherwise provided by these Articles or by law) the Company shall not be bound by or recognise any interest in any share (or in any fractional part of a share) except the holder's absolute right to the entirety of the share (or fractional part of the share). VARIATION OF RIGHTS Method of varying rights 52. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the provisions of Articles 124 to 129, if at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may (unless otherwise provided by the terms of allotment of the shares of that class) be varied or abrogated, whether or not the Company is being wound up, either: (a) with the consent of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class, which consent shall be by means of one or more instruments or contained in one or more electronic communications sent to such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by or on behalf of the Company for that purpose or a combination of both; or (b) with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class, but not otherwise. SHARE CERTIFICATES Members' rights to certificates 53. Every member, on becoming the holder of any certificated share (except a recognised person in respect of whom the Company is not required by law to complete and have ready for delivery a certificate) shall be entitled, without payment, to one certificate for all the certificated shares of each class held by him (and, on transferring a part of his holding of certificated shares of any class, to a certificate for the balance of his holding of certificated shares). He may elect to receive one or more additional certificates for any of 20
his certificated shares if he pays for every certificate after the first a reasonable sum determined from time to time by the Board. Every certificate shall: (a) be executed under the seal or otherwise in accordance with Article 222 or in such other manner as the Board may approve; and (b) specify the number, class and distinguishing numbers (if any) of the shares to which it relates and the amount or respective amounts paid up on the shares. 54. The Company shall not be bound to issue more than one certificate for certificated shares held jointly by more than one person and delivery of a certificate to one joint holder shall be a sufficient delivery to all of them. Shares of different classes may not be included in the same certificate. Replacement certificates 55. If a share certificate is defaced, worn out, lost or destroyed, it may be renewed on such terms (if any) as to evidence and indemnity and payment of any exceptional out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in investigating evidence and preparing the requisite form of indemnity as the Board may determine but otherwise free of charge, and (in the case of defacement or wearing out) on delivery up of the old certificate. LIEN Company to have lien on shares 56. The Company shall have a first and paramount lien on every share (not being a fully paid share) for all moneys payable to the Company (whether presently or not) in respect of that share. The Board may at any time (generally or in a particular case) waive any lien or declare any share to be wholly or in part exempt from the provisions of this Article. The Company's lien on a share shall extend to any amount (including without limitation dividends) payable in respect of it. Enforcement of lien by sale 57. The Company may sell, in such manner as the Board determines, any share on which the Company has a lien if a sum in respect of which the lien exists is presently payable and is not paid within 14 clear days after notice has been sent to the holder of the share, or to the person entitled to it by transmission, demanding payment and stating that if the notice is not complied with the share may be sold. Giving effect to sale 58. To give effect to that sale the Board may, if the share is a certificated share, authorise any person to execute an instrument of transfer in respect of the share sold to, or in accordance with the directions of, the buyer. If the share is an uncertificated share, the Board may exercise any of the Company's powers under Article 29 to require the share to be changed into certificated form and to effect the sale of the share to, or in accordance with the directions of, the buyer. The buyer shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money and his title to the share shall not be affected by any irregularity in or invalidity of the proceedings in relation to the sale. 21
Application of proceeds 59. The net proceeds of the sale, after payment of the costs, shall be applied in or towards payment or satisfaction of so much of the sum in respect of which the lien exists as is presently payable. Any residue shall (if the share sold is a certificated share, on surrender to the Company for cancellation of the certificate in respect of the share sold and, whether the share sold is a certificated or uncertificated share, subject to a like lien for any moneys not presently payable as existed on the share before the sale) be paid to the person entitled to the share at the date of the sale. CALLS ON SHARES Power to make calls 60. Subject to the terms of allotment, the Board may from time to time make calls on the members in respect of any moneys unpaid on their shares (whether in respect of nominal value or premium). Each member shall (subject to receiving at least 14 clear days' notice specifying when and where payment is to be made) pay to the Company the amount called on his shares as required by the notice. A call may be required to be paid by instalments. A call may be revoked in whole or part and the time fixed for payment of a call may be postponed in whole or part as the Board may determine. A person on whom a call is made shall remain liable for calls made on him even if the shares in respect of which the call was made are subsequently transferred. Time when call made 61. A call shall be deemed to have been made at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed. Liability of joint holders 62. The joint holders of a share shall be jointly and severally liable to pay all calls in respect of it. Interest payable 63. If a call or any instalment of a call remains unpaid in whole or in part after it has become due and payable the person from whom it is due and payable shall pay interest on the amount unpaid from the day it became due and payable until it is paid. Interest shall be paid at the rate fixed by the terms of allotment of the share or in the notice of the call or, if no rate is fixed, the rate determined by the Board, not exceeding 15 per cent. per annum, or, if higher, the appropriate rate (as defined in the Act), but the Board may in respect of any individual member waive payment of such interest wholly or in part. Deemed calls 64. An amount payable in respect of a share on allotment or at any fixed date, whether in respect of nominal value or premium or as an instalment of a call, shall be deemed to be a call duly made and notified and payable on the date so fixed or in accordance with the terms of the allotment. If it is not paid the provisions of these Articles shall apply as if that amount had become due and payable by virtue of a call duly made and notified. 22
Differentiation on calls 65. Subject to the terms of allotment, the Board may make arrangements on the issue of shares for a difference between the allottees or holders in the amounts and times of payment of calls on their shares. Payment of calls in advance 66. The Board may, if it thinks fit, receive from any member all or any part of the moneys uncalled and unpaid on any share held by him. Such payment in advance of calls shall extinguish the liability on the share in respect of which it is made to the extent of the payment. The Company may pay on all or any of the moneys so advanced (until they would but for such advance become presently payable) interest at such rate agreed between the Board and the member not exceeding (unless the Company by ordinary resolution otherwise directs) 15 per cent. per annum or, if higher, the appropriate rate (as defined in the Act). FORFEITURE AND SURRENDER Notice requiring payment of call 67. If a call or any instalment of a call remains unpaid in whole or in part after it has become due and payable, the Board may give to the person from whom it is due not less than 14 clear days' notice requiring payment of the amount unpaid together with any interest which may have accrued and any costs, charges and expenses incurred by the Company by reason of such non-payment. The notice shall name the place where payment is to be made and shall state that if the notice is not complied with the shares in respect of which the call was made will be liable to be forfeited. Forfeiture for non-compliance 68. If that notice is not complied with, any share in respect of which it was given may, at any time before the payment required by the notice has been made, be forfeited by a resolution of the Board. The forfeiture shall include all dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the forfeited share which have not been paid before the forfeiture. When a share has been forfeited, notice of the forfeiture shall be sent to the person who was the holder of the share before the forfeiture. An entry shall be made promptly in the register opposite the entry of the share showing that notice has been sent, that the share has been forfeited and the date of forfeiture. No forfeiture shall be invalidated by the omission or neglect to give that notice or to make those entries. Sale of forfeited shares 69. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, a forfeited share shall be deemed to belong to the Company and may be sold, re-allotted or otherwise disposed of on such terms and in such manner as the Board determines, either to the person who was the holder before the forfeiture or to any other person. At any time before sale, re-allotment or other disposal, the forfeiture may be cancelled on such terms as the Board thinks fit. Where for the purposes of its disposal a forfeited share held in certificated form is to be transferred to any person, the Board may authorise any person to execute an instrument of transfer of the share to that person. Where for the purposes of its disposal a forfeited share held in uncertificated form is to be transferred to any person, the Board may exercise any of the Company's powers under Article 29. The Company may receive the 23
consideration given for the share on its disposal and may register the transferee as holder of the share. Liability following forfeiture 70. A person shall cease to be a member in respect of any share which has been forfeited and shall, if the share is a certificated share, surrender the certificate for any forfeited share to the Company for cancellation. The person shall remain liable to the Company for all moneys which at the date of forfeiture were presently payable by him to the Company in respect of that share with interest on that amount at the rate at which interest was payable on those moneys before the forfeiture or, if no interest was so payable, at the rate determined by the Board, not exceeding 15 per cent. per annum or, if higher, the appropriate rate (as defined in the Act), from the date of forfeiture until payment. The Board may waive payment wholly or in part or enforce payment without any allowance for the value of the share at the time of forfeiture or for any consideration received on its disposal. Surrender 71. The Board may accept the surrender of any share which it is in a position to forfeit on such terms and conditions as may be agreed. Subject to those terms and conditions, a surrendered share shall be treated as if it had been forfeited. Extinction of rights 72. The forfeiture of a share shall involve the extinction at the time of forfeiture of all interest in and all claims and demands against the Company in respect of the share and all other rights and liabilities incidental to the share as between the person whose share is forfeited and the Company, except only those rights and liabilities expressly saved by these Articles, or as are given or imposed in the case of past members by the Companies Acts. Evidence of forfeiture or surrender 73. A statutory declaration by a director or the secretary that a share has been duly forfeited or surrendered on a specified date shall be conclusive evidence of the facts stated in it as against all persons claiming to be entitled to the share. The declaration shall (subject if necessary to the execution of an instrument of transfer or transfer by means of the relevant system, as the case may be) constitute a good title to the share. The person to whom the share is disposed of shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money, if any, and his title to the share shall not be affected by any irregularity in, or invalidity of, the proceedings in reference to the forfeiture, surrender, sale, re-allotment or disposal of the share. TRANSFER OF SHARES Form and execution of transfer of certificated share 74. The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve. An instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee. An instrument of transfer need not be under seal. 24
Right to refuse Registration 75. The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis. 76. The Board shall decline to register any transfer of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share unless the transfer has been approved in accordance with, and the transferee complies with, the relevant provisions of the Voting Agreement. 77. The Board shall refuse to register any transfer of the Equalization Share unless such transfer is to a member of the Carnival Group or to a trustee for the benefit of one or more members of the Carnival Group. 78. The Board may, in its absolute discretion, also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: (a) is lodged, duly stamped (if stampable), at the office or at another place appointed by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer; (b) is in respect of only one class of shares; and (c) is in favour of not more than four transferees. Transfers by recognised persons 79. In the case of a transfer of a certificated share by a recognised person, the lodgement of a share certificate will only be necessary if and to the extent that a certificate has been issued in respect of the share in question. Notice of refusal to register 80. If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a share, it shall send the transferee notice of its refusal within two months after the date on which the instrument of transfer was lodged with the Company or the Operator-instruction was received, as the case may be. Suspension of registration 81. The registration of transfers of shares or of transfers of any class of shares may be suspended at such times and for such periods (not exceeding 30 days in any year) as the Board may determine, except that the Board may not suspend the registration of transfers of any participating security without the consent of the Operator of the relevant system. No fee payable on registration 82. No fee shall be charged for the registration of any instrument of transfer or other document relating to or affecting the title to a share. 25
Retention of transfers 83. The Company shall be entitled to retain an instrument of transfer which is registered, but an instrument of transfer which the Board refuses to register shall be returned to the person lodging it when notice of the refusal is given. TRANSMISSION OF SHARES Transmission 84. If a member dies, the survivor or survivors where he was a joint holder, and his personal representatives where he was a sole holder or the only survivor of joint holders, shall be the only persons recognised by the Company as having any title to his interest. Nothing in these Articles shall release the estate of a deceased member (whether a sole or joint holder) from any liability in respect of any share held by him. Elections permitted 85. A person becoming entitled by transmission to a share may, on production of any evidence as to his entitlement properly required by the Board, elect either to become the holder of the share or to have another person nominated by him registered as the transferee. If he elects to become the holder he shall give notice to the Company to that effect. If he elects to have another person registered and the share is a certificated share, he shall execute an instrument of transfer of the share to that person. If he elects to have himself or another person registered and the share is an uncertificated share, he shall take any action the Board may require (including without limitation the execution of any document and the giving of any instruction by means of a relevant system) to enable himself or that person to be registered as the holder of the share. All the provisions of these Articles relating to the transfer of shares apply to that notice or instrument of transfer as if it were an instrument of transfer executed by the member and the death or bankruptcy of the member or other event giving rise to the transmission had not occurred. Elections required 86. The Board may at any time send a notice requiring any such person to elect either to be registered himself or to transfer the share. If the notice is not complied with within 60 days, the Board may after the expiry of that period withhold payment of all dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the share until the requirements of the notice have been complied with. Rights of persons entitled by transmission 87. A person becoming entitled by transmission to a share shall, on production of any evidence as to his entitlement properly required by the Board and subject to the requirements of Articles 85 and 86, have the same rights in relation to the share as he would have had if he were the holder of the share, subject to Article 241. That person may give a discharge for all dividends and other moneys payable in respect of the share, but he shall not, before being registered as the holder of the share, be entitled in respect of it to receive notice of, or to attend or vote at, any meeting of the Company or to receive notice of or to attend or vote at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company. 26
ALTERATION OF SHARE CAPITAL Alterations by ordinary resolution 88. Subject to Articles 124 to 129 and the provisions of the Equalization Agreement, the Company may by ordinary resolution: (a) increase its share capital by such sum to be divided into shares of such amount as the resolution prescribes; (b) consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger amount than its existing shares; (c) subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of smaller amount than is fixed by the Memorandum and the resolution may determine that, as between the shares resulting from the sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage as compared with the others; and (d) cancel shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person and diminish the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled. New shares subject to these Articles 89. All shares created by ordinary resolution pursuant to Article 88 shall be: (a) subject to all the provisions of these Articles including, without limitation, provisions relating to payment of calls, lien, forfeiture, transfer and transmission; and (b) ordinary shares, unless otherwise provided by these Articles, by the resolution creating the shares or by the terms of allotment of the shares. Fractions arising 90. Whenever any fractions arise as a result of a consolidation or sub-division of shares, the Board may on behalf of the members deal with the fractions as it, in its absolute discretion, thinks fit. In particular, without limitation, the Board may sell shares representing fractions to which any members would otherwise become entitled to any person (including, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company) and distribute the net proceeds of sale in due proportion among those members. Where the shares to be sold are held in certificated form the Board may authorise some person to execute an instrument of transfer of the shares to, or in accordance with the directions of, the buyer. Where the shares to be sold are held in uncertificated form, the Board may do all acts and things it considers necessary or expedient to rematerialize the shares into certificated form and/or to effect the transfer of the shares to, or in accordance with the directions of, the buyer. The buyer shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase moneys and his title to the shares shall not be affected by any irregularity in, or invalidity of, the proceedings in relation to the sale. 27
Power to reduce capital 91. Subject to Articles 124 to 129, the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the provisions of the Equalization Agreement, the Company may by special resolution reduce its share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account in any way. PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Power to purchase own shares 92. Subject to Articles 124 to 129, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts and the provisions of the Equalization Agreement, and without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of shares, the Company may purchase any of its own shares of any class (including without limitation redeemable shares) in any way and at any price (whether at par or above or below par). GENERAL MEETINGS Types of general meeting 93. All general meetings of the Company other than annual general meetings shall be called extraordinary general meetings. The Board shall convene and the Company shall hold general meetings as annual general meetings in accordance with the requirements of the Act. Convening general meetings 94. The Board may call general meetings whenever and at such times and places as it shall determine. On the requisition of members pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board shall promptly convene an extraordinary general meeting in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Acts. If there are no directors of the Company at any time, any two members of the Company may summon a meeting for the purpose of appointing one or more directors. Recipients of notice 95. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, to the provisions of these Articles and to any restrictions imposed on any shares, any notice of general meeting shall be sent to all the members, to each of the directors and to the auditors. 96. If the Company proposes to undertake a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action: (a) the Company shall immediately give notice to Carnival of the nature of the Joint Electorate Action or the Class Rights Action it proposes to take; and (b) the Board shall convene a general meeting for the purpose of considering the Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action to be held as close in time as practicable with the Parallel General Meeting convened by Carnival for the purposes of considering that Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. 97. If the Company receives notice that Carnival proposes to undertake a Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action, the directors shall convene a general meeting for the purposes of considering that Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action, such meeting to be held as close in time as practicable with the Parallel General Meeting and shall 28
propose a resolution which is an Equivalent Resolution to the Carnival Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. 98. The Company shall co-operate fully with Carnival in the preparation of any information or material required in connection with any general meeting to consider a proposed Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS Period of notice 99. An annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called for the passing of a special resolution shall be called by at least 21 clear days' notice. All other extraordinary general meetings shall be called by at least 14 clear days' notice. Contents of notice: general 100. The notice shall specify the time and place of the meeting (including without limitation any satellite meeting place arranged for the purposes of Article 103, which shall be identified as such in the notice) and the general nature of that business. Contents of notice: additional requirements 101. In the case of an annual general meeting, the notice shall specify the meeting as such. In the case of a meeting to pass a special or extraordinary resolution, the notice shall specify the intention to propose the resolution as a special or extraordinary resolution, as the case may be. The notice shall also state whether the resolution relates to a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action. Article 105 arrangements 102. The notice shall include details of any arrangements made for the purpose of Article 105 making clear that participation in those arrangements will not amount to attendance at the meeting to which the notice relates. General meetings at more than one place 103. The Board may resolve to enable persons entitled to attend a general meeting to do so by simultaneous attendance and participation at a satellite meeting place anywhere in the world. The members present in person or by proxy at satellite meeting places shall be counted in the quorum for, and entitled to vote at, the general meeting in question, and that meeting shall be duly constituted and its proceedings valid if the chairman of the general meeting is satisfied that adequate facilities are available throughout the general meeting to ensure that members attending at all the meeting places are able to: (a) participate in the business for which the meeting has been convened; (b) hear and see all persons who speak (whether by the use of microphones, loudspeakers, audio-visual communications equipment or otherwise) in the principal meeting place and any satellite meeting place; and (c) be heard and seen by all other persons so present in the same way, and the meeting shall be deemed to take place at the principal meeting place. 29
Interruption or adjournment where facilities inadequate 104. If it appears to the chairman of the general meeting that the facilities at the principal meeting place or any satellite meeting place have become inadequate for the purposes referred to in Article 103, then the chairman may, without the consent of the meeting, interrupt or adjourn the general meeting. All business conducted at that general meeting up to the time of that adjournment shall be valid. The provisions of Article 119 shall apply to that adjournment. Other arrangements for viewing/hearing proceedings 105. The Board may make arrangements for persons entitled to attend a general meeting or an adjourned general meeting to be able to view and hear the proceedings of the general meeting or adjourned general meeting and to speak at the meeting (whether by the use of microphones, loudspeakers, audio-visual communications equipment or otherwise) by attending at a venue anywhere in the world not being a satellite meeting place. Those attending at any such venue shall not be regarded as present at the general meeting or adjourned general meeting and shall not be entitled to vote at the meeting at or from that venue. The inability for any reason of any member present in person or by proxy at such a venue to view or hear all or any of the proceedings of the meeting or to speak at the meeting shall not in any way affect the validity of the proceedings of the meeting. Controlling level of attendance 106. The Board may from time to time make any arrangements for controlling the level of attendance at any venue for which arrangements have been made pursuant to Article 105 (including without limitation the issue of tickets or the imposition of some other means of selection) which it in its absolute discretion considers appropriate, and may from time to time change those arrangements. If a member, pursuant to those arrangements, is not entitled to attend in person or by proxy at a particular venue, he shall be entitled to attend in person or by proxy at any other venue for which arrangements have been made pursuant to Article 105. The entitlement of any member to be present at such venue in person or by proxy shall be subject to any such arrangement then in force and stated by the notice of meeting or adjourned meeting to apply to the meeting. Change in place and/or time of meeting 107. If, after the sending of notice of a general meeting but before the meeting is held, or after the adjournment of a general meeting but before the adjourned meeting is held (whether or not notice of the adjourned meeting is required), the Board decides that it is impracticable or unreasonable for a reason beyond its control to hold the meeting at the declared place (or any of the declared places, in the case of a meeting to which Article 103 applies) and/or time, it may change the place (or any of the places, in the case of a meeting to which Article 103 applies) and/or postpone the time at which the meeting is to be held. If such a decision is made, the Board may then change the place (or any of the places, in the case of a meeting to which Article 103 applies) and/or postpone the time again if it decides that it is reasonable to do so. In either case: (a) no new notice of the meeting need be sent, but the Board shall, if practicable, advertise the date, time and place of the meeting in at least two newspapers having a national circulation and shall make arrangements for notices of the 30
change of place and/or postponement to appear at the original place and/or at the original time; and (b) a proxy appointment in relation to the meeting may, if by means of an instrument, be delivered to the office or to such other place within the United Kingdom as may be specified by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Article 165(a) or, if contained in an electronic communication, be received at the address (if any) specified by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Article 165(b), at any time not less than 48 hours before any postponed time appointed for holding the meeting; and (c) any valid proxy duly delivered to the Company in respect of a meeting which is postponed in accordance with these Articles shall be valid and subsisting in respect of that meeting when held notwithstanding that the time and/or place for the meeting changes unless expressly provided otherwise in the relevant proxy. Meaning of participate 108. For the purposes of Articles 103 to 107, the right of a member to participate in the business of any general meeting shall include, without limitation, the right to speak, vote on a show of hands (to the extent applicable), vote on a poll, be represented by a proxy and have access to all documents which are required by the Companies Acts or these Articles to be made available at the meeting. Accidental omission to give notice etc. 109. The accidental omission to send a notice of a meeting, or to send any notification where required by the Companies Acts or these Articles in relation to the publication of a notice of meeting on a website, or to send a form of proxy where required by the Companies Acts or these Articles, to any person entitled to receive it, or the non-receipt for any reason of any such notice or notification or form of proxy by that person, whether or not the Company is aware of such omission or non-receipt, shall not invalidate the proceedings at that meeting. Security 110. The Board and, at any general meeting, the chairman may make any arrangement and impose any requirement or restriction it or he considers appropriate to ensure the security of a general meeting including, without limitation, requirements for evidence of identity to be produced by those attending the meeting, the searching of their personal property and the restriction of items that may be taken into the meeting place. The Board and, at any general meeting, the chairman are entitled to refuse entry to a person who refuses to comply with these arrangements, requirements or restrictions. PROCEEDINGS AT GENERAL MEETINGS Quorum 111. No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum is present, but the absence of a quorum shall not preclude the choice or appointment of a chairman, which shall not be treated as part of the business of the meeting. Save as otherwise provided by these Articles and subject to Articles 112 and 130, three Members Present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote on the business to be transacted shall be a quorum (and for the 31
avoidance of doubt, the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall be treated as being entitled to vote for the purposes of determining whether a quorum exists notwithstanding the operation of Articles 125 and 131). 112. Where a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action is to be considered at the general meeting, one of the Members Present must be the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 111, no resolution will be approved as a Joint Electorate Action unless one third of the total votes capable of being cast by (i) the holders of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, and (ii) the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share (assuming all holders of outstanding Carnival Common Stock vote at the Parallel General Meeting), are cast on the resolution proposing such Joint Electorate Action. 113. For the purposes of Article 112, (i) votes which a holder of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares specifically elects to abstain from voting in accordance with Article 148; and (ii) votes which the P&O Princess Special Voting Share carries as abstentions in accordance with Article 129 shall in each case be counted as having been "cast". If quorum not present 114. If such a quorum is not present within five minutes (or such longer time not exceeding 60 minutes as the chairman of the meeting may decide to wait) from the time appointed for the meeting, or if during a meeting such a quorum ceases to be present, the meeting, if convened on the requisition of members, shall be dissolved, and in any other case shall stand adjourned to such time and place as the chairman of the meeting may determine. The adjourned meeting shall be dissolved if a quorum is not present within 15 minutes after the time appointed for holding the meeting. Chairman 115. The chairman, if any, of the Board or, in his absence, any deputy chairman of the Board or, in his absence, some other director nominated by the Board, shall preside as chairman of the meeting. If neither the chairman, deputy chairman nor any such other director is present within thirty minutes after the time appointed for holding the meeting or is not willing to act as chairman, the directors present shall elect one of their number to be chairman. If there is only one director present and willing to act, he shall be chairman. If no director is willing to act as chairman, or if no director is present within thirty minutes after the time appointed for holding the meeting, the members present and entitled to vote shall choose one of their number to be chairman. Directors entitled to attend and speak 116. A director shall, notwithstanding that he is not a member, be entitled to attend and speak at any general meeting and at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company. Adjournments: chairman's powers 117. The chairman may, with the consent of a meeting at which a quorum is present (and shall if so directed by the meeting), adjourn the meeting from time to time and from place to place. No business shall be transacted at an adjourned meeting other than business which might properly have been transacted at the meeting had the adjournment not taken place. In addition (and without prejudice to the chairman's power to adjourn a meeting 32
conferred by Article 104), the chairman may adjourn the meeting to another time and place without such consent if it appears to him that: (a) any amendment to a Substantive Resolution has been approved at the meeting; (b) it is likely to be impracticable to hold or continue that meeting because of the number of members wishing to attend who are not present; or (c) the unruly conduct of persons attending the meeting prevents or is likely to prevent the orderly continuation of the business of the meeting; or (d) an adjournment is otherwise necessary so that the business of the meeting may be properly conducted; or (e) notice is received of any adjournment of the Parallel General Meeting. 118. In determining whether to adjourn the meeting under Article 117, the chairman shall have regard to the Company's obligations under Articles 106 and 109 and the impact of any adjournment on the Parallel General Meeting (if any). Adjournments: procedures 119. Any such adjournment may be for such time and to such other place (or, in the case of a meeting held at a principal meeting place and a satellite meeting place, such other places) as the chairman may, in his absolute discretion, determine, notwithstanding that by reason of such adjournment some members may be unable to be present at the adjourned meeting. Any such member may nevertheless appoint a proxy for the adjourned meeting either in accordance with Article 163 or by means of an instrument which, if delivered by him at the meeting which is adjourned to the chairman or the secretary or any director, shall be valid even though it is given at less notice than would otherwise be required by Article 165(a). When a meeting is adjourned for 30 days or more or for an indefinite period, notice shall be sent at least seven clear days before the date of the adjourned meeting specifying the time and place (or places, in the case of a meeting to which Article 103 applies) of the adjourned meeting and the general nature of the business to be transacted. Otherwise it shall not be necessary to send any notice of an adjournment or of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting. 120. The Company shall as soon as possible give notice to Carnival of an adjournment and of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting. Class meetings 121. Subject to Articles 122 and 123 below, all provisions of these Articles relating to general meetings of the Company shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to every separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, except that: (a) the necessary quorum shall be two or more persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, at any adjourned meeting of such holders, one holder present in person or by proxy, whatever the amount of his holding, who shall be deemed to constitute a meeting; (b) any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy may demand a poll; and 33
(c) each holder of shares of the class shall, on a poll, be entitled to such aggregate number of votes as are attached to every share of the class held by him. 122. Any separate class meeting of the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall take effect by written resolution. 123. Any separate class meeting of the holder of the Equalization Share shall take effect by written resolution. VOTING RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES UNDER THE EQUALIZATION AGREEMENT Class Rights Actions 124. The following actions constitute Class Rights Actions: (a) the voluntary Liquidation of the Company or Carnival for which the approval of the members is required by Applicable Regulations or otherwise sought other than a voluntary Liquidation of both the Company and Carnival at or about the same time with the purpose or effect of no longer continuing the operation of the businesses of the companies as a combined going concern and not as part of a scheme, plan, transaction, or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to reconstitute all or a substantial part of such businesses in one or more successor entities; (b) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either Carnival or the Company, other than in a bona fide commercial transaction undertaken for a valid business purpose in which such company receives consideration with a fair market value reasonably equivalent to the assets disposed of and not as a part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to collapse or unify the DLC Structure; (c) any adjustment to the Carnival Equivalent Number or the Equalization Ratio otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement; (d) except where specifically provided for in the relevant agreements, any amendment to the terms of, or termination of, the Equalization Agreement, the Voting Agreement, the P&O Princess Guarantee or the Carnival Guarantee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the voluntary termination of either the P&O Princess Guarantee or the Carnival Guarantee); (e) any amendment to, or removal of, or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) any P&O Princess Entrenched Provision or any Carnival Entrenched Provision; (f) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) Article XII or XIII of the Articles of Incorporation of Carnival that would cause, or at the time of implementation would be reasonably likely to cause, an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition thereof to occur; and 34
(g) the doing of anything which the Board and the Board of Carnival agree (either in a particular case or generally), in their absolute discretion, should be approved as a Class Rights Action. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Articles, none of the foregoing actions may be undertaken by the Company unless it has been approved as a Class Rights Action in accordance with Article 125. Class Rights Action Procedure 125. If the Company proposes to take any Class Rights Action or is required to put a resolution pursuant to Article 97: (a) such action (either by the Company or by Carnival) shall require approval by an ordinary resolution (or, if required by these Articles or Applicable Regulations, by a Special Resolution) passed at a general meeting of the members of the Company in relation to which the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall be entitled to vote as a single class on a poll; and (b) in relation to such resolution: (i) if the proposed action is approved by the requisite majority (as determined in accordance with the Carnival Constitution and Applicable Regulations) of the holders of Carnival Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at the Parallel General Meeting, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall have no votes; and (ii) if the proposed action is not approved by the holders of Carnival Common Stock (on the basis described in Article 125(b)(i) above) at the Parallel General Meeting, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall vote as follows: (x) if the resolution needs to be passed at the Company's general meeting by an ordinary resolution, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat an ordinary resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (including the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Company's general meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution; or (y) if the resolution needs to be passed at the Company's general meeting by a special (or extraordinary) resolution, then the P&O Princess Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes (less one vote) as would be necessary to defeat a special (or extraordinary) resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations 35
and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (including the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Company's general meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution. Joint Electorate Actions 126. All actions put to the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock, except for Class Rights Actions and resolutions of a procedural or technical nature (described in Article 131 below) shall constitute Joint Electorate Actions. For the avoidance of doubt, the following actions, if put to the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock, shall constitute Joint Electorate Actions: (a) the appointment, removal or re-election of any director of the Company or Carnival, or both of them; (b) to the extent such receipt or adoption is required by Applicable Regulations, the receipt or adoption of the financial statements of the Company or Carnival, or both of them, or accounts prepared on a combined basis, other than any accounts in respect of the period(s) ended prior to the date of the Equalization Agreement; (c) a change of name of either the Company or Carnival, or both of them; and (d) the appointment or removal of the auditors of either the Company or Carnival or both of them. 127. If a particular matter falls both within Articles 124 and 126, then it shall be treated as a Class Rights Action falling exclusively within Article 124. Joint Electorate Action Procedure 128. If the Company proposes to take any Joint Electorate Action or is required to propose a resolution pursuant to Article 97, such action (either by the Company or by Carnival) shall require approval by ordinary resolution (or, if required by these Articles or Applicable Regulations, approval by a Special Resolution) of the holders of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, voting as a single class. 129. In relation to a resolution of the Company to approve a Joint Electorate Action, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall carry: (a) such number of votes in favour of the resolution as were cast in favour of the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting; and (b) such number of votes against the resolution as were cast against the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting; and (c) solely for the purposes of Article 112, such number of abstentions as is equivalent to the number of votes which holders of Carnival Common Stock have specifically elected to abstain from the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting in accordance with the Carnival Constitution and/or Applicable Regulations, 36
in each case divided by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such general meeting of the Company is held and in each case rounded up to the nearest whole number, such votes to be cast by the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share in accordance with the above provisions. Resolutions Generally 130. No resolution to approve a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate Action shall be approved unless the Parallel General Meeting of Carnival is validly held and a vote of the holders of Carnival Common Stock is held on an Equivalent Resolution. 131. The P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall have no right to vote on any resolution of a procedural or technical nature put to a general meeting of the Company provided it has no adverse effect on the holders of Carnival Common Stock in any material respect. Resolutions of a procedural or technical nature will not be included in any notice of general meeting to the Company's shareholders. The Chairman will, in his absolute discretion, determine whether a resolution is of a procedural or technical nature. Subject to the foregoing, without limitation, the following resolutions shall constitute resolutions of a procedural or technical nature: (a) that certain people be allowed to attend or excluded from attending the Company's general meeting; (b) that discussion be closed and the question put to the vote (provided no amendments have been raised); (c) that the question under discussion not be put to the vote; (d) to proceed to the next item of business; (e) to proceed with matters in an order other than that set out in the notice of the meeting; (f) to adjourn the debate (for example, to a subsequent meeting); and (g) to adjourn the general meeting. Methods of voting 132. Every resolution put to the vote of a general meeting on which the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share is or may be entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll. 133. Subject to Article 132, any resolution to be put to the vote of a general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless, before or on the declaration of the result of a vote on the show of hands or on the withdrawal of any other demand for a poll, a poll is duly demanded. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, a poll may be demanded by: (a) the chairman of the meeting; or (b) at least five Members Present in person or by proxy having the right to vote at the meeting; or 37
(c) any member or Members Present in person or by proxy representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting; or (d) any member or Members Present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right. 134. A demand by a person as proxy for a member shall be the same as a demand by the member. Declaration of result in the absence of a poll 135. Unless a poll is required pursuant to Article 132 or is duly demanded pursuant to Article 133 (and the demand is not withdrawn before the poll is taken) a declaration by the chairman that a resolution has been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or lost, or not carried by a particular majority shall be conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against the resolution. Procedure on a poll 136. A poll on a resolution on which the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share is or may be entitled to vote shall be kept open for such time as to allow the Parallel General Meeting to be held and for the votes attaching to the P&O Princess Special Voting Share to be calculated and cast on such poll. 137. A poll shall, subject to Article 136, be taken in such manner as the chairman directs. He may appoint scrutineers, who need not be members, and may fix a time and place for declaring the result of the poll. The result of the poll is deemed to be the resolution of the meeting at which the poll is demanded. 138. A poll shall be taken at such time and place as the chairman decides, either at once or after an interval or adjournment (but not more than 30 clear days after the date of the demand). 139. The chairman may determine that any poll may close at different times for different classes of shareholder or for different shareholders of the same class entitled to vote on the relevant resolution. 140. No notice need be given of a poll not taken immediately if the time and place at which it is to be taken are announced at the meeting at which it is demanded. In any other case at least seven clear days' notice shall be given specifying the time and place at which the poll is to be taken. 141. A demand for a poll may be withdrawn but only with the consent of the chairman. A demand withdrawn in this way validates the result of a show of hands declared before the demand is made. If a poll is demanded before the declaration of the result of a show of hands and the demand is duly withdrawn, the meeting shall continue as if the demand has not been made. If the demand for a poll is withdrawn, the chairman or any other member entitled may demand a poll. 38
142. The requirement for a poll (whether automatic or on demand) does not prevent the meeting continuing for the transaction of business other than the question on which a poll is to be held. 143. On a poll, votes may be given in person or by proxy and a member entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way, whether present in person or by proxy. 144. The chairman shall determine any dispute as to the admission or rejection of a vote and such determination made in good faith shall be final and conclusive. Effectiveness of special and extraordinary resolutions 145. Where for any purpose an ordinary resolution of the Company is required, a special or extraordinary resolution shall also be effective. Where for any purpose an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution shall also be effective. 146. [Intentionally left blank] VOTING RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES Right to vote 147. Subject to any special terms as to voting on which shares have been allotted or issued, or a suspension or abrogation of voting rights pursuant to the Articles, at a general meeting or meeting of members of a class every Member Present has on a show of hands one vote and has on a poll: (a) one vote for each fully paid P&O Princess Ordinary Share; and (b) in the case of a partly paid share, that fraction of a vote equivalent to the proportion which the amount paid up (not credited) on that member's share bears to the total amount paid and payable for that share (excluding amounts credited). Amounts paid in advance of a call shall be ignored when calculating the proportion; and (c) in the case of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, such number of votes as are determined in accordance with Articles 125, 129 and 131. 148. On a poll, every Member Present may cast the votes attaching to his Ordinary Shares either for or against the resolution or may specifically elect to abstain from voting, in which case his vote shall, subject to Article 112, neither be counted as a vote in favour or against such resolution. Votes of joint holders 149. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of he other joint holders. For this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register. 39
Member under incapacity 150. A member in respect of whom an order has been made by a court or official having jurisdiction (whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) in matters concerning mental disorder may vote, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, by his receiver, curator bonis or other person authorised for that purpose appointed by that court or official. That receiver, curator bonis or other person may, on a poll, vote by proxy. The right to vote shall be exercisable only if evidence satisfactory to the Board of the authority of the person claiming to exercise the right to vote has been deposited at the office, or at another place specified in accordance with these Articles for the delivery of proxy appointments, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the right to vote is to be exercised. Calls in arrears 151. No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all moneys presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid. Errors in voting 152. If any votes are counted which ought not to have been counted, or might have been rejected, the error shall not vitiate the result of the voting unless it is pointed out at the same meeting, or at any adjournment of the meeting, and, in the opinion of the chairman (in his absolute discretion), it is of sufficient magnitude to vitiate the result of the voting. Objection to voting 153. No objection shall be raised to the qualification of any voter except at the meeting or adjourned meeting or poll at which the vote objected to is tendered. Every vote not disallowed at such meeting shall be valid and every vote not counted which ought to have been counted shall be disregarded. Any objection made in due time shall be referred to the chairman whose decision shall be final and conclusive. Disclosure Notice 154. The directors may by notice in writing (a "Disclosure Notice") require any member or other person Appearing to be Interested or Appearing to have been Interested in the Ordinary Shares to disclose to the Company in writing such information as directors require relating to the ownership of, or Interests in, the Ordinary Shares in question as lies within the knowledge of such member or other person (supported, if the directors so require, by a statutory declaration and/or by such independent evidence as the directors reasonably require) including: (a) any information which the Company is entitled to seek pursuant to Part VI of the Act; and (b) any information which the directors shall deem necessary or desirable in order to determine whether any Ordinary Shares are Combined Group Restricted Shares. The directors may give a Disclosure Notice at any time and may give one or more notices to the same members or other person in respect of the same Ordinary Shares. 40
Failure to comply with Disclosure Notice 155. If any member or any other person Appearing to be Interested in Ordinary Shares has been served with a Disclosure Notice or a notice under Section 212 of the Act and has failed to supply the Company with the information required within 14 days from the date of service of the notice (or, such other period of time as the directors may, in their absolute discretion, prescribe in the notice), then the directors may, in their absolute discretion, at any time thereafter by notice (a "Direction Notice") to such member direct that in respect of the Ordinary Shares in relation to which the default occurred (the "Default Shares") the member shall not be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the Company or meetings of the holders of any class of shares of the Company. The Company shall send to each other person Appearing to be Interested in Ordinary Shares which are the subject of a Direction Notice a copy of the notice, but the failure or omission by the Company to do so shall not invalidate such notice. Any Direction Notice shall have effect, in accordance with its terms, for so long as the default in respect of which the Direction Notice was issued continues. The Direction Notice shall cease to have effect five days after confirmation by the Company that the information required by the Disclosure Notice has been provided to the Company. Additional directions 156. Where the Default Shares represent at least 0.25 per cent. in nominal value of the issued shares of that class then the Direction Notice may additionally direct: (a) that any dividend or other money (or shares instead of such amount) payable in respect of the Default Shares shall (in whole or part) be retained by the Company without any liability to pay interest on it when it is finally paid to the member; and/or (b) that no transfer of any Default Shares held by such member shall be registered unless: (i) the member is not in default as regards supplying the information required; (ii) the member proves to the satisfaction of the directors that no person in default as regards supplying such information is Interested in any of the Ordinary Shares which are the subject of the transfer; (iii) registration of the transfer is required by the Regulations; or (iv) the transfer is an approved transfer if: (A) it is a transfer of shares pursuant to an acceptance of a takeover offer (within the meaning of section 428(1) of the Act); or (B) the Board is satisfied that the transfer is made pursuant to a sale of the shares the subject of the transfer to a party unconnected with the member and with any other person appearing to be interested in the shares; or 41
(C) the transfer results from a sale made through a recognised investment exchange as defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 or any other stock exchange outside the United Kingdom on which the Company's shares are normally traded. Additional Shares 157. Any new Ordinary Shares in the Company issued in right of Default Shares shall be subject to the same sanctions as apply to the Default Shares, and the directors may make any right to an allotment of new Ordinary Shares subject to sanctions corresponding to those which will apply to those Ordinary Shares on issue, provided that: (a) any sanctions applying to, or to a right to, new Ordinary Shares by virtue of this Article 157 shall cease to have effect when the sanctions applying to the related Default Shares cease to have effect (and shall be suspended or cancelled if and to the extent that the sanctions applying to the related Default Shares are suspended or cancelled); and (b) Article 154 shall apply to the exclusion of this Article 157 if the Company issues a separate Disclosure Notice in respect of the new shares. Section 216 of the Act 158. The provisions of Article 157 are without prejudice to the provisions of section 216 of the Act and, in particular, the Company may apply to the court under section 216(1) of the Act whether or not the provisions of Article 157 have been applied. Conversion of uncertificated shares 159. The Company may exercise any of its powers under Article 29 in respect of any Default Shares that are held in uncertificated form. Notification of interests 160. In addition to the obligation to disclose interests in shares pursuant to Part VI of the Act and the regulations made under it, any person with an interest in Ordinary Shares and any person treated as Appearing to be Interested in Ordinary Shares shall notify the Company in writing as soon as practicable following any event which would cause such person to disclose interests in shares pursuant to Part VI of the Act and any regulations made under it as if such obligation applied by reference to interests in Ordinary Shares. PROXIES AND CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES Appointment of proxy: execution 161. The appointment of a proxy, whether by means of an instrument or contained in an electronic communication, shall be executed in such manner as the Board may approve. Subject thereto, the appointment of a proxy shall be executed by the appointor or his attorney or, if the appointor is a corporation, executed by a duly authorised officer, attorney or other authorised person or under its common seal. For the purpose of this Article and Articles 162 to 166, an electronic communication which contains a proxy appointment need not comprise writing if the Board so determines and in such a case, if the Board so determines, the appointment need not be executed but shall instead be subject to such conditions as the Board may approve. 42
Method of proxy appointment 162. The appointment of a proxy shall be in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve. Subject thereto, the appointment of a proxy may be: (a) by means of an instrument; or (b) contained in an electronic communication sent to such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by or on behalf of the Company for that purpose, provided that the electronic communication is received in accordance with Article 163 not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting (or any postponed time appointed for holding the meeting pursuant to Article 107) or, where a poll is taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, after the poll has been demanded and not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll, and the Board may, if it thinks fit, but subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, at the Company's expense send forms of proxy for use at the meeting and issue invitations contained in electronic communications to appoint a proxy in relation to the meeting in such form as may be approved by the Board. The appointment of a proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting or poll concerned. A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend on the same occasion. Sending of proxy appointment 163. Without prejudice to Article 107(b) or to the second sentence of Article 119, the appointment of a proxy shall: (a) in the case of an instrument, be delivered personally or by post to the office or such other place within the United Kingdom as may be specified by or on behalf of the Company for that purpose: (i) in the notice convening the meeting, or (ii) in any form of proxy sent by or on behalf of the Company in relation to the meeting, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting (or any postponed time appointed for holding the meeting pursuant to Article 107) at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote; or (b) in the case of an appointment contained in an electronic communication, where an address has been specified by or on behalf of the Company for the purpose of receiving electronic communications: (i) in the notice convening the meeting, or (ii) in any form of proxy sent by or on behalf of the Company in relation to the meeting, or (iii) in any invitation contained in an electronic communication to appoint a proxy issued by or on behalf of the Company in relation to the meeting, 43
be received at that address not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting (or any postponed time appointed for holding the meeting pursuant to Article 107) at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote; or (c) in either case, where a poll is automatic, the appointment of a proxy shall be delivered or received not less than 48 hours before the meeting at which the poll is to be held, and, in circumstances where a poll is demanded and taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, be delivered or received as aforesaid after the poll has been demanded and not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll; or (d) in the case only of an instrument, where a poll is not taken forthwith but is, in respect of resolutions on which the P&O Princess Special Voting Share has no vote, taken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded, be delivered at the meeting at which the poll was demanded to the chairman or to the secretary or to any director. 164. A proxy deposited by the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share will be valid if it is received by or delivered to the chairman of the meeting before the close of the poll to which it relates. Delivery of authority 165. Except in relation to an instrument deposited by the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share (which is governed by Article 164 above), any power of attorney or other written authority under which a proxy appointment is executed or an office or notarially certified copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of such power or written authority shall be: (a) delivered personally or by post to the office, or to such other place within the United Kingdom as may be specified by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Article 163(a), not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting (or any postponed time appointed for holding the meeting pursuant to Article 107) at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote; or (b) in respect of resolutions on which the P&O Princess Special Voting Share has no vote, where a poll is taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, be delivered as aforesaid after the poll has been demanded and not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll; or (c) in the case only of a proxy appointment by means of an instrument, in respect of resolutions on which the P&O Princess Special Voting Share has no vote, where a poll is not taken forthwith but is taken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded, be delivered at the meeting at which the poll was demanded to the chairman or to the secretary or to any director together with the proxy appointment to which it relates. 166. A proxy appointment which is not delivered or received in accordance with Articles 163 or 164, or in respect of which Article 165 has not been complied with, shall be invalid. No proxy appointment shall be valid more than twelve months after the date stated in it as the date of its execution. When two or more valid proxy appointments are delivered or 44
received in respect of the same share for use at the same meeting, the one which was executed last shall be treated as replacing and revoking the others as regards that share; if the Company is unable to determine which was executed last, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share. Validity of proxy appointment 167. A proxy appointment shall be deemed to include the right to demand, or join in demanding, a poll but shall not confer any further right to speak at a meeting, except with the permission of the chairman. Save in respect of a proxy delivered in respect of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share, the proxy appointment shall also be deemed to confer authority to vote on any amendment of a resolution put to the meeting for which it is given as the proxy thinks fit. The proxy appointment shall, unless it provides to the contrary, be valid for any adjournment of the meeting as well as for the meeting to which it relates. Corporate representatives 168. Any corporation which is a member of the Company (in this Article the "grantor") may, by resolution of its directors or other governing body, authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at any meeting of the Company or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares. A person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same power on behalf of the grantor as the grantor could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, save that a director, the secretary or other person authorised for the purpose by the secretary may require such person to produce a certified copy of the resolution of authorisation before permitting him to exercise his powers. The grantor shall for the purposes of these Articles be deemed to be present in person at any such meeting if a person so authorised is present at it. Revocation of authority 169. A vote given or poll demanded by a proxy or by the duly authorised representative of a corporation shall be valid notwithstanding the previous determination of the authority of the person voting or demanding the poll unless notice of the determination was either delivered or received as mentioned in the following sentence at least three hours before the start of the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the vote is given or the poll demanded or (in the case of a poll taken otherwise than on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting) the time appointed for taking the poll. Such notice of determination shall be either by means of an instrument delivered to the office or to such other place within the United Kingdom as may be specified by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Article 163(a) or contained in an electronic communication received at the address (if any) specified by or on behalf of the Company in accordance with Article 163(b), regardless of whether any relevant proxy appointment was effected by means of an instrument or contained in an electronic communication. For the purpose of this Article, an electronic communication which contains such notice of determination need not comprise writing if the Board has determined that the electronic communication which contains the relevant proxy appointment need not comprise writing. 45
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS Limits on number of directors 170. Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the number of directors (other than alternate directors) shall be not less than three nor more than a maximum of twenty five in number (or such lesser maximum as the directors may from time to time resolve). APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS Directors Number of directors to retire 171. At every subsequent annual general meeting following the adoption of these Articles one-third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third shall retire from office, but; (a) if any director has at the start of the annual general meeting been in office for more than three years since his last appointment or re-appointment, he shall retire; and (b) if there is only one director who is subject to retirement by rotation, he shall retire. Which directors to retire 172. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and these Articles, the directors to retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or re-appointment. As between persons who became or were last re-appointed directors on the same day those to retire shall (unless they otherwise agree among themselves) be determined by lot. The directors to retire on each occasion (both as to number and identity) shall be determined by the composition of the board at the date of the notice convening the annual general meeting. No director shall be required to retire or be relieved from retiring or be retired by reason of any change in the number or identity of the directors after the date of the notice but before the close of the meeting. If the Company does not fill the vacancy at the meeting at which a director retires by rotation or otherwise, the retiring director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-appointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or unless a resolution for the re-appointment of the director is put to the meeting and lost. Eligibility for election and effectiveness of appointment 173. No person shall be appointed a director at any general meeting unless: (a) he is recommended by the Board; or (b) not less than seven nor more than 42 days before the earlier of the date appointed for the meeting and the date appointed for the Parallel General Meeting, notice executed by a member qualified to vote at the meeting (not being the person to be proposed) has been received by the Company of the intention to propose that person for appointment stating the particulars which would, if he were so appointed, be required to be included in the Company's register of directors, together with notice executed by that person of his willingness to be appointed. 46
174. No person shall be a director of the Company unless he is also a director of Carnival. The appointment of a person as a director of the Company shall only take effect at the same time as that person's appointment as a director of Carnival takes effect. Any director who resigns from his office will be obliged to resign as a director of Carnival at the same time as he resigns from the Board and his resignation from the Board shall not take effect until he does so. Separate resolutions on appointment 175. Except as otherwise authorised by the Companies Acts, the appointment of any person proposed as a director shall be effected by a separate resolution. Additional powers of the Company 176. Subject to Articles 124 to 129 and to Article 174, the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint a person who is willing to act to be a director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director. The appointment of a person to fill a vacancy or as an additional director shall take effect from the end of the meeting. Appointment by Board 177. The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act to be a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director and in either case whether or not for a fixed term, provided that the appointment does not cause the number of directors to exceed the number, if any, fixed by or in accordance with these Articles as the maximum number of directors. If a person is appointed as a director of Carnival by the Board of Carnival in accordance with the Carnival Constitution, the Board shall also appoint that person as a director of the Company. 178. Irrespective of the terms of his appointment, a director so appointed shall hold office only until the next following annual general meeting and shall not be taken into account in determining the directors who are to retire by rotation at the meeting. If not re-appointed at such annual general meeting, he shall vacate office at its conclusion. Position of retiring directors 179. A director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be re-elected. If he is not re-elected, he shall retain office until the meeting appoints someone in his place, or if it does not do so, until the later of the end of the meeting at which the director retires and the end of the Parallel General Meeting. Age limit 180. No person shall be disqualified from being appointed or re-appointed a director, and no director shall be required to vacate that office, by reason only of the fact that he has attained the age of 70 years or any other age nor shall it be necessary by reason of his age to give special notice under the Companies Acts of any resolution for his appointment or re-appointment. No share qualification 181. A director shall not be required to hold any shares in the capital of the Company by way of qualification. 47
ALTERNATE DIRECTORS Power to appoint alternates 182. Any director (other than an alternate director) may appoint any other director, willing to act, to be an alternate director and may remove from office an alternate director so appointed by him. Alternates entitled to receive notice 183. An alternate director shall be entitled to receive notice of all meetings of the Board and of all meetings of committees of the Board of which his appointor is a member, to attend and vote at any such meeting at which his appointor is not personally present, and generally to perform all the functions of his appointor (except as regards power to appoint an alternate) as a director in his absence. Alternates representing more than one director 184. A director may act as alternate director to represent more than one director, and an alternate director shall be entitled at meetings of the Board or any committee of the Board to one vote for every director whom he represents (and who is not present) in addition to his own vote as a director, and shall count for the purpose of determining whether a quorum is present both in his capacity as a director and in his capacity as an alternate director. Termination of appointment 185. An alternate director shall cease to be an alternate director: (a) if his appointer ceases to be a director; but, if a director retires by rotation or otherwise but is re-appointed or deemed to have been re-appointed at the meeting at which he retires, any appointment of an alternate director made by him which was in force immediately prior to his retirement shall continue after his re-appointment; or (b) on the happening of any event which would cause him to vacate his office as director; or (c) if he resigns his office as a director by notice to the Company; or (d) if he notifies the Board and his appointer that he no longer wishes to serve as an alternate director. Method of appointment and revocation 186. Any appointment or removal of an alternate director shall be by notice to the Company signed by the director making or revoking the appointment and shall take effect in accordance with the terms of the notice on receipt of such notice by the Company which shall, in the case of a notice contained in an instrument, be at the office or, in the case of a notice contained in an electronic communication, be at such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by or on behalf of the Company for that purpose. 48
Alternate not an agent of appointor 187. Except as otherwise expressly provided in these Articles, an alternate director shall be deemed for all purposes to be a director. Accordingly, except where the context otherwise requires, a reference to a director shall be deemed to include a reference to an alternate director. An alternate director shall alone be responsible for his own acts and defaults and he shall not be deemed to be the agent of the director appointing him. POWERS OF THE BOARD Business to be managed by Board 188. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Memorandum and these Articles and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may pay all expenses incurred in forming and registering the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company, including without limitation the power to dispose of all or any part of the undertaking of the Company. No alteration of the Memorandum or Articles and no such direction shall invalidate any prior act of the Board which would have been valid if that alteration had not been made or that direction had not been given. The powers given by this Article shall not be limited by any special power given to the Board by these Articles. A meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present may exercise all powers exercisable by the Board. Discretionary Matters 189. The Board may, by agreement with the Board of Carnival: (a) decide to seek the approval of the shareholders (or any class of shareholders) of either or both of the Company and Carnival for any matter that would not otherwise require such approval; (b) require any Joint Electorate Action to be approved instead as a Class Rights Action; or (c) specify a higher majority vote than the required majority that would otherwise be required for any shareholder vote provided for in Articles 125(a) and 128. Exercise by Company of voting rights 190. The Board may exercise the voting power conferred by the shares in any body corporate held or owned by the Company in such manner in all respects as it thinks fit (including without limitation the exercise of that power in favour of any resolution appointing its members or any of them as directors of such body corporate, or voting or providing for the payment of remuneration to the directors of such body corporate). DELEGATION OF POWERS OF THE BOARD Committees of the Board 191. A majority of the Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of two or more directors. Any such delegation may be made subject to such conditions as the majority of the Board may specify and may be revoked or altered. Subject to any conditions imposed by a majority of the Board, the proceedings of a committee with two or more directors shall be governed by these Articles regulating the proceedings of 49
directors so far as they are capable of applying. For the avoidance of doubt, Article 209 shall not apply with regard to determining whether a committee of the Board is quorate. A committee of the Board will be quorate if at least a majority of the directors appointed to that committee is present. Agents 192. A majority of the Board or of a committee of the Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person to be the agent of the Company for such purposes, with such powers, authorities and discretions (not exceeding those vested in the Board) and on such conditions as the Board or the relevant committee determines, including without limitation authority for the agent to delegate all or any of his powers, authorities and discretions, and may revoke or vary such delegation. Offices including the title "director" 193. A majority of the Board may appoint any person to any office or employment having a designation or title including the word "director" or attach to any existing office or employment with the Company such a designation or title and may terminate any such appointment or the use of any such designation or title. The inclusion of the word "director" in the designation or title of any such office or employment shall not imply that the holder is a director of the Company, and the holder shall not thereby be empowered in any respect to act as, or be deemed to be, a director of the Company for any of the purposes of these Articles. Director's power to give effect to the DLC agreements 194. The directors are authorised and directed to carry into effect the provisions of the Equalization Agreement, the Voting Agreement, the P&O Princess Guarantee and any further agreements or arrangements that the Company is party to which are mentioned in or contemplated by such agreements. Subject to the Acts, nothing done in good faith by any director pursuant to such authority and obligations shall constitute a breach of the fiduciary duties of such director to the Company or its shareholders. In particular: (a) the directors shall, in addition to their duties to the Company, be entitled to have regard to the interests of the Combined Shareholders and to the interests of Carnival, as if the Company and Carnival were a single legal entity; (b) the directors are authorised to provide to Carnival and any officer, employee or agent of Carnival any information relating to the Company; and (c) the directors are authorised to enter into, operate and carry into effect the Equalization Agreement, the Voting Agreement and the P&O Princess Guarantee with full power to: (i) enter into, operate and carry into effect any further or other agreements or arrangements with or in connection with Carnival or the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share; and (ii) do all such things as, in the opinion of the directors, are necessary or desirable for the application, implementation, protection, furtherance or maintenance of the dual listed company relationship with Carnival constituted by or arising out of any agreement or arrangement. 50
DISQUALIFICATION AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS Disqualification as a director 195. The office of a director shall be vacated immediately if: (a) he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of the Companies Acts or these Articles or he becomes prohibited by applicable law from being a director; or (b) he resigns his office by notice to the Company or, having been appointed for a fixed term, the term expires or his office as a director is vacated pursuant to Article 177; or (c) he ceases to be a director of Carnival. REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Ordinary remuneration 196. The ordinary remuneration of the directors who do not hold executive office for their services (excluding amounts payable under any other provision of these Articles) shall not exceed in aggregate (pound)1,000,000 per annum or such higher amount as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine and shall be satisfied in such manner as the Board or any validly formed committee thereof shall from time to time determine, which includes without limitation satisfaction in Company shares. Subject thereto, each such director shall be paid a fee (which shall be deemed to accrue from day to day) at such rate as may from time to time be determined by the Board. Additional remuneration for special services 197. Any director who does not hold executive office and who serves on any committee of the Board, by the request of the Board goes or resides abroad (from his normal country of residence) for any purpose of the Company or otherwise performs special services which in the opinion of the Board are outside the scope of the ordinary duties of a director, may (without prejudice to the provisions of Article 196) be paid such extra remuneration by way of salary, commission or otherwise as the Board may determine. DIRECTORS' EXPENSES Directors may be paid expenses 198. The directors may be paid all travelling, hotel, and other expenses properly incurred by them in connection with their attendance at meetings of the Board or the Board of Carnival, meetings of any committees of the Board or of the Board of Carnival, or general meetings or separate meetings of the holders of any class of shares or of debentures of the Company or Carnival, or otherwise in connection with the discharge of their duties. 51
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Appointment to executive office 199. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may appoint one or more of its body to be the holder of any executive office (except that of auditor) in the Company and may enter into an agreement or arrangement with any director for his employment by the Company or for the provision by him of any services outside the scope of the ordinary duties of a director. Any such appointment, agreement or arrangement may be made on such terms, including without limitation terms as to remuneration, as the Board determines. The Board may revoke or vary any such appointment but without prejudice to any rights or claims which the person whose appointment is revoked or varied may have against the Company because of the revocation or variation. Termination of appointment to executive office 200. Any appointment of a director to an executive office shall terminate if he ceases to be a director but without prejudice to any rights or claims which he may have against the Company by reason of such cessation. A director appointed to an executive office shall not cease to be a director merely because his appointment to such executive office terminates. Emoluments to be determined by the Board 201. The emoluments of any director holding executive office for his services as such shall be determined by the Board, and may be of any description, including without limitation admission to, or continuance of, membership of any scheme (including any share acquisition scheme) or fund instituted or established or financed or contributed to by the Company for the provision of pensions, life assurance or other benefits for employees or their dependants, or the payment of a pension or other benefits to him or his dependants on or after retirement or death, apart from membership of any such scheme or fund. DIRECTORS' INTERESTS Directors may contract with the Company 202. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and provided that he has disclosed to the Board the nature and extent of any material interest of his, a director notwithstanding his office: (a) may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested; (b) may act by himself or his firm in a professional capacity for the Company (otherwise than as auditor) and he or his firm shall be entitled to remuneration for professional services as if he were not a director; (c) may be a director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to any transaction or arrangement with, or otherwise interested in, any body corporate promoted by the Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested; and (d) shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which he derives from any such office or employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or from any interest in any such body corporate and 52
no such transaction or arrangement shall be liable to be avoided on the ground of any such interest or benefit. Notification of interests 203. For the purposes of this Article: (a) a general notice given to the Board that a director is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons is interested shall be deemed to be a disclosure that the director has an interest in any such transaction of the nature and extent so specified; and (b) an interest of which a director has no knowledge and of which it is unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge shall not be treated as an interest of his. GRATUITIES, PENSIONS AND INSURANCE Gratuities and pensions 204. The Board may (by establishment of, or maintenance of, schemes or otherwise) provide benefits, whether by the payment of gratuities or pensions or by insurance or otherwise, for any past or present director or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings or any body corporate associated with, or any business acquired by, any of them, and for any member of his family (including a spouse and a former spouse) or any person who is or was dependent on him, and may (as well before as after he ceases to hold such office or employment) contribute to any fund and pay premiums for the purchase or provision of any such benefit. Insurance 205. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 288, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to purchase and maintain insurance for or for the benefit of any person who is or was: (a) a director, officer, employee or auditor of the Company or Carnival, or any body which is or was the holding company or subsidiary undertaking of the Company or Carnival, or in which the Company or Carnival or a holding company or subsidiary undertaking of the Company or Carnival has or had any interest (whether direct or indirect) or with which the Company or Carnival or a holding company or subsidiary undertaking of the Company or Carnival is or was in any way allied or associated; or (b) a trustee of any pension fund in which employees of the Company, Carnival or, any other body referred to in Article 205(a) is or has been interested, including without limitation insurance against any liability incurred by such person in respect of any act or omission in the actual or purported execution or discharge of his duties or in the exercise or purported exercise of his powers or otherwise in relation to his duties, powers or offices in relation to the relevant body or fund. 53
Directors not liable to account 206. No director or former director shall be accountable to the Company or the members for any benefit provided pursuant to Article 204. The receipt of any such benefit shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a director of the Company. Section 719 of the Act 207. Pursuant to section 719 of the Act, the Board is hereby authorised to make such provision as may seem appropriate for the benefit of any persons employed or formerly employed by the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings in connection with the cessation or the transfer of the whole or part of the undertaking of the Company or any subsidiary undertaking. Any such provision shall be made by a resolution of the Board in accordance with section 719. PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD Convening meetings 208. Subject to the provisions of these Articles, the Board may regulate its proceedings as it thinks fit. The Chairman or any two directors may, and the secretary at the request of the Chairman or any two directors shall, call a meeting of the Board. Notice of a Board meeting shall be deemed to be properly sent to a director if it is sent to him personally or by word of mouth or sent by instrument to him, at his last known address (whether within or outside the United Kingdom) or such other address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by him or on his behalf to the Company for that purpose, or sent using electronic communications to such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by him or on his behalf to the Company for that purpose. Questions arising at a meeting shall be decided by a majority of directors present at any meeting (provided that the meeting is quorate). Any director may waive notice of a meeting and any such waiver may be retrospective. Any electronic communication pursuant to this Article need not comprise writing if the Board so determines. Quorum 209. The quorum for the transaction of the business shall be a majority of the directors of the Company. A person who holds office as an alternate director shall, if his appointor is not present, be counted in the quorum in his capacity as an alternate director (on behalf of his appointor) in addition to in his capacity as a director of the Company. Any director who ceases to be a director at a Board meeting may continue to be present and to act as a director and be counted in the quorum until the termination of the Board meeting if no director objects. Powers of directors if number falls below minimum 210. The continuing directors or a sole continuing director may act notwithstanding any vacancies in their number. Chairman and deputy chairman 211. The Board may appoint one of their number to be the chairman, and one of their number to be the deputy chairman, of the Board and may at any time remove either of them from such office. Unless he is unwilling to do so, the director appointed as chairman, or in his 54
stead the director appointed as deputy chairman, shall preside at every meeting of the Board at which he is present. If there is no director holding either of those offices, or if neither the chairman nor the deputy chairman is willing to preside or neither of them is present within five minutes after the time appointed for the meeting, the directors present may appoint one of their number to be chairman of the meeting. Validity of acts of the Board 212. All acts done by a meeting of the Board, or of a committee of the Board, or by a person acting as a director or alternate director, shall, notwithstanding that it be afterwards discovered that there was a defect in the appointment of any director or any member of the committee or alternate director or that any of them were disqualified from holding office, or had vacated office, or were not entitled to vote, be as valid as if every such person had been duly appointed and was qualified and had continued to be a director or, as the case may be, an alternate director and had been entitled to vote. Resolutions in writing 213. A resolution in writing signed by all of the directors entitled to receive notice and vote at a meeting of the Board or of a committee of the Board shall be as valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting of the Board or (as the case may be) a committee of the Board duly convened and held. For this purpose: (a) a resolution may be by means of an instrument or contained in an electronic communication sent to such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by the Company for that purpose; (b) a resolution may consist of several instruments or several electronic communications, each executed by one or more directors, or a combination of both; (c) a resolution signed by an alternate director need not also be signed by his appointor; and (d) a resolution signed by a director who has appointed an alternate director need not also be signed by the alternate director in that capacity. Meetings by telephone, etc. 214. Without prejudice to the first sentence of Article 209, a person entitled to be present at a meeting of the Board or of a committee of the Board shall be deemed to be present for all purposes if he is able (directly or by telephonic communication) to speak to and be heard by all those present or deemed to be present simultaneously. A director so deemed to be present shall be entitled to vote and be counted in a quorum accordingly. Such a meeting shall be deemed to take place where it is convened to be held or (if no director is present in that place) where the largest group of those participating is assembled, or, if there is no such group, where the chairman of the meeting is. The word "meeting" in these Articles shall be construed accordingly. Directors' power to vote on contracts in which they are interested 215. Except as otherwise provided by these Articles, a director shall not vote at a meeting of the Board or a committee of the Board on any resolution of the Board concerning a 55
matter in which he has an interest (other than by virtue of his interests in shares or debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company or Carnival) which (together with any interest of any person connected with him) is to his knowledge material unless his interest arises only because the resolution concerns one or more of the following matters: (a) the giving of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of money lent or obligations incurred by him or any other person at the request of or for the benefit of, the Company or Carnival or any of their respective subsidiary undertakings; (b) the giving of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or Carnival or any of their respective subsidiary undertakings for which the director has assumed responsibility (in whole or part and whether alone or jointly with others) under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security; (c) a contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal concerning an offer of shares, debentures or other securities of the Company or Carnival or any of their respective subsidiary undertakings for subscription or purchase, in which offer he is or may be entitled to participate as a holder of securities or in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of which he is to participate; (d) a contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal concerning any other body corporate in which he or any person connected with him is interested, directly or indirectly, and whether as an officer, shareholder, creditor or otherwise, if he and any persons connected with him do not to his knowledge hold an interest (as that term is used in sections 198 to 211 of the Act) representing one per cent or more of either any class of the equity share capital of such body corporate (or any other body corporate through which his interest is derived) or of the voting rights available to members of the relevant body corporate (any such interest being deemed for the purpose of this Article to be material interest in all circumstances); (e) a contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal for the benefit of employees of the Company or Carnival or any of their respective subsidiary undertakings which does not award him any privilege or benefit not generally accorded to the employees to whom the arrangement relates; and (f) a contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal concerning any insurance which the Company or Carnival is empowered to purchase or maintain for, or for the benefit of, any directors of the Company or of Carnival, or for persons who include directors of the Company or of Carnival. Interests of connected person and alternate director 216. For the purposes of this Article, an interest of a person who is, for any purpose of the Companies Acts (excluding any statutory modification of the Companies Acts not in force when this Article is adopted), connected with a director shall be treated as an interest of the director and, in relation to an alternate director, an interest of his appointor shall be treated as an interest of the alternate director without prejudice to any interest which the alternate director has otherwise. 56
Division of proposals 217. Where proposals are under consideration concerning the appointment (including without limitation fixing or varying the terms of appointment) of two or more directors to offices or employments with the Company or any body corporate in which the Company is interested, the proposals may be divided and considered in relation to each director separately. In such cases each of the directors concerned shall be entitled to vote in respect of each resolution except that concerning his own appointment. SECRETARY Appointment and removal of secretary 218. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the secretary shall be appointed by the Board for such term, at such remuneration and on such conditions as it may think fit. Any secretary so appointed may be removed by the Board, but without prejudice to any claim for damages for breach of any contract of service between him and the Company. MINUTES Minutes required to be kept 219. The Board shall cause minutes to be made in books kept for the purpose of: (a) all appointments of officers made by the Board; and (b) all proceedings at meetings of the Company, the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, the Board and committees of the Board, including the names of the directors present at each such meeting. Conclusiveness of minutes 220. Any such minutes, if purporting to be signed by the chairman of the meeting to which they relate or of the meeting at which they are read, shall be sufficient evidence of the proceedings at the meeting without any further proof of the facts stated in them. THE SEAL Authority required for execution of deed 221. The seal shall only be used by the authority of a resolution of the Board or a duly appointed committee of the Board. The Board may determine who shall sign any instrument executed under the seal. If they do not, it shall be signed by at least one director and the secretary or by at least two directors. Any instrument may be executed under the seal by impressing the seal by mechanical means or by printing the seal or a facsimile of it on the instrument or by applying the seal or a facsimile of it by any other means to the instrument. An instrument signed, with the authority of a resolution of the Board, by a director and the secretary or by two directors and expressed (in whatever form of words) to be executed by the Company has the same effect as if executed under the seal. For the purpose of the preceding sentence only, "secretary" shall have the same meaning as in the Act and not the meaning given to it by Article 2. 57
Certificates for shares and debentures 222. The Board may by resolution determine either generally or in any particular case that any certificate for shares or debentures or representing any other form of security may have any signature affixed to it by some mechanical means, or printed on it or, in the case of a certificate executed under the seal, need not bear any signature. Official seal for use abroad 223. The Company may exercise the powers conferred by section 39 of the Act with regard to having an official seal for use abroad. REGISTERS Overseas and local registers 224. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Regulations, the Company may keep an overseas or local or other register in any place, and the Board may make, amend and revoke any regulations it thinks fit about the keeping of that register. Authentication and certification of copies and extracts 225. Any director or the secretary or any other person appointed by the Board for the purpose shall have power to authenticate and certify as true copies of and extracts from: (a) any document comprising or affecting the constitution of the Company whether in physical form or electronic form; (b) any resolution passed by the Company, the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, the Board or any committee of the Board whether in physical form or electronic form; and (c) any book, record and document relating to the business of the Company whether in physical form or electronic form (including without limitation the accounts), and if certified in this way, a document purporting to be a copy of a resolution, or the minutes or an extract from the minutes of a meeting of the Company, the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, the Board or a committee of the Board, whether in physical form or electronic form, shall be conclusive evidence in favour of all persons dealing with the Company in reliance on it or them that the resolution was duly passed or that the minutes are, or the extract from the minutes is, a true and accurate record of proceedings at a duly constituted meeting. DIVIDENDS Declaration of dividends 226. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Equalization Agreement, the Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. 58
227. The Board shall announce any dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars (or such other currency as it shall determine from time to time) together with a sterling equivalent for any such dividend in accordance with Article 232 below. 228. The Board may at its discretion make provisions to enable a member to receive dividends duly payable in a currency or currencies other than dollars or sterling. 229. Holders of ordinary shares shall be entitled to be paid dividends in sterling for so long as sterling remains the national currency of the United Kingdom or in any replacement currency if sterling ceases to be the only national currency of the United Kingdom. Interim dividends 230. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Equalization Agreement and Articles 234 to 236 (inclusive), the Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to the Board that they are justified by the profits of the Company available for distribution. If the share capital is divided into different classes, the Board may pay interim dividends on shares which confer deferred or non-preferred rights with regard to dividend as well as on shares which confer preferential rights with regard to dividend, but no interim dividend shall be paid on shares carrying deferred or non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, any preferential dividend is in arrear. The Board may also pay at intervals settled by it any dividend payable at a fixed rate if it appears to the Board that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. If the Board acts in good faith it shall not incur any liability to the holders of shares conferring preferred rights for any loss they may suffer by the lawful payment of an interim dividend on any shares having deferred or non-preferred rights. Apportionment of dividends 231. Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid up on the shares on which the dividend is paid; but no amount paid on a share in advance of the date on which a call is payable shall be treated for the purposes of this Article as paid on the share. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid; but, if any share is allotted or issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, that share shall rank for dividend accordingly. Exchange rate dividend calculation 232. For the purposes of the calculation of the amount receivable in respect of any dividend payable in a currency or currencies other than US dollars, the rate of exchange to be used to determine the relevant currency equivalent of any sum payable as a dividend shall be such market rate (whether spot or forward) selected by the Board as it shall consider appropriate by reference to such market rate or rates or the mean of such market rates prevailing at such time or times or on such date or dates as the Board may in its discretion select. Ranking of shares for dividends 233. The rights attaching to the shares of the Company, as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution and resolved to be distributed, are as follows: 59
(a) the holders of preference shares shall be entitled, in priority to any payment of dividends to the holders of any other class of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends up to but not beyond a specified amount; and (b) any surplus remaining after payment of the dividends under paragraph (a) shall be payable to the holders of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares in equal amounts per share. Matching cash dividends or distributions of an income nature 234. Subject to the other provisions of these Articles, the Company shall not pay or make any Distribution in cash unless Carnival also pays or makes a Distribution in cash at or about the same time and the ratio of the Equalization Distribution Amount so paid or made by Carnival to the Equalization Distribution Amount so paid or made by the Company (converted, if applicable, at the Applicable Exchange Rate for such Distributions and rounded to five decimal places) equals the Equalization Ratio in effect on the Distribution Determination Date for such Distributions (each, an "Equivalent Distribution"). 235. The Company shall not declare or otherwise become obligated to pay or make a Distribution in cash unless (i) on the date on which such declaration is made or such obligation is created, Carnival has sufficient distributable reserves to make an Equivalent Distribution with respect to such Distribution; or (ii) the Company agrees to pay, and does pay, to Carnival (before Carnival pays or makes such Distribution) the minimum amount required by Carnival so that it will have sufficient distributable reserves to pay or make such an Equivalent Distribution. Notwithstanding compliance with the preceding sentence, if Carnival shall have declared or otherwise become obligated to pay or make such Equivalent Distribution when due, then the Company shall pay to Carnival the minimum amount required by Carnival so that Carnival will have sufficient distributable reserves to pay or make such Equivalent Distribution; provided however that if the Company does not have sufficient distributable reserves to pay or make in full both the Equivalent Distribution that it declared or became obligated to make and the payment required by this sentence, then (i) the Company shall only pay or make the portion of that Equivalent Distribution (and any related payment that would have been required by this sentence in respect of such portion if it were the entire Equivalent Distribution that it had declared or became obligated to make) that it can make with its distributable reserves and (ii) Carnival shall only pay or make the portion of its Equivalent Distribution that it can make out of its distributable reserves following receipt of such payment. 236. For purposes of Article 235, the amount the Company is required to pay Carnival shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax credits of, the Company and Carnival with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment may be made on the Equalization Share issued by the Company if both the Board and the Board of Carnival deem it appropriate. Timing of dividends and distributions 237. The Board, insofar as is practical, will: (a) in relation to any proposed cash Distribution, agree with the Board of Carnival the amount of the Equivalent Distribution to be made by each company; 60
(b) determine to pay or recommend to pay Equivalent Distributions at a meeting of the Board convened as close in time as is practicable to the respective meeting of the Board of Carnival; (c) announce and pay any Equivalent Distributions simultaneously or as close in time as is practicable to the announcement or payment of any Equivalent Distribution made by the Board of Carnival; (d) ensure that the record dates for receipt of the Equivalent Distribution, in respect of the Company and Carnival, are on the same date; and (e) generally co-ordinate the timing of all other aspects of the payment or making of Equivalent Distributions with the Board of Carnival. Dividends in specie 238. Subject to the provisions of Articles 124 to 129 and the provisions of the Equalization Agreement, a general meeting declaring a dividend may, on the recommendation of the Board, by ordinary resolution direct that it shall be satisfied wholly or partly by the distribution of assets, including without limitation paid up shares or debentures of another body corporate. The Board may make any arrangements it thinks fit to settle any difficulty arising in connection with the distribution, including without limitation (a) the fixing of the value for distribution of any assets, (b) the payment of cash to any member on the basis of that value in order to adjust the rights of members, and (c) the vesting of any asset in a trustee. Scrip dividends: authorising resolution 239. Subject to the Companies Acts and the provisions of Articles 124 to 129, the Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company (the "Resolution"), offer any holder of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive Ordinary Shares, credited as fully paid, instead of cash in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the Board) of all or any dividend specified by the Resolution. The offer shall be on the terms and conditions and be made in the manner specified in Article 240 or, subject to those provisions, specified in the Resolution. Scrip dividends: procedures 240. The following provisions shall apply to the Resolution and any offer made pursuant to it and Article 239. (a) The Resolution may specify a particular dividend, or may specify all or any dividends declared within a specified period. (b) Each holder of Ordinary Shares shall be entitled to that number of new shares as are together as nearly as possible equal in value to (but not greater than) the cash amount (disregarding any tax credit) of the dividend that such holder elects to forgo (each a "new share"). For this purpose, the value of each new share shall be: (i) equal to the average quotation for the Company's Ordinary Shares, that is, the average of the middle market quotations for those shares on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List, on the 61
day on which such shares are first quoted ex the relevant dividend and the four subsequent dealing days; or (ii) calculated in any other manner specified by the Resolution, but shall never be less than the par value of the new share. A certificate or report by the auditors as to the value of a new share in respect of any dividend shall be conclusive evidence of that value. (c) On or as soon as practicable after announcing that any dividend is to be declared or recommended, the Board, if it intends to offer an election in respect of that dividend, shall also announce that intention. If, after determining the basis of allotment, the Board decides to proceed with the offer, it shall notify the holders of Ordinary Shares of the terms and conditions of the right of election offered to them, specifying the procedure to be followed and place at which, and the latest time by which, elections or notices amending or terminating existing elections must be lodged in order to be effective. (d) The Board shall not proceed with any election unless the Company has sufficient unissued Ordinary Shares authorised for issue and sufficient reserves or funds that may be appropriated to give effect to it after the basis of allotment is determined. (e) The Board may exclude from any offer any holders of Ordinary Shares where the Board believes the making of the offer to them would or might involve the contravention of the laws of any territory or that for any other reason the offer should not be made to them. (f) The dividend (or that part of the dividend in respect of which a right of election has been offered) shall not be payable in cash on Ordinary Shares in respect of which an election has been made (the "elected shares") and instead such number of new shares shall be allotted to each holder of elected shares as is arrived at on the basis stated in Article 240(b). For that purpose the Board shall appropriate out of any amount for the time being standing to the credit of any reserve or fund (including without limitation the profit and loss account), whether or not it is available for distribution, a sum equal to the aggregate nominal amount of the new shares to be allotted and apply it in paying up in full the appropriate number of new shares for allotment and distribution to each holder of elected shares as is arrived at on the basis stated in Article 240(b). (g) The new shares when allotted shall rank equally in all respects with the fully paid shares of the same class then in issue except that they shall not be entitled to participate in the relevant dividend. (h) No fraction of an Ordinary Share shall be allotted. The Board may make such provision as it thinks fit for any fractional entitlements including without limitation payment in cash to holders in respect of their fractional entitlements, provision for the accrual, retention or accumulation of all or part of the benefit of fractional entitlements to or by the Company or to or by or on behalf of any holder or the application of any accrual, retention or accumulation to the allotment of fully paid shares to any holder. 62
(i) The Board may do all acts and things it considers necessary or expedient to give effect to the allotment and issue of any share pursuant to this Article or otherwise in connection with any offer made pursuant to this Article and may authorise any person, acting on behalf of the holders concerned, to enter into an agreement with the Company providing for such allotment or issue and incidental matters. Any agreement made under such authority shall be effective and binding on all concerned. (j) The Board may, at its discretion, amend, suspend or terminate any offer pursuant to this Article. Permitted deductions and retentions 241. The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys payable to any member in respect of a share any moneys presently payable by him to the Company in respect of that share. Where a person is entitled by transmission to a share, the Board may retain any dividend payable in respect of that share until that person (or that person's transferee) becomes the holder of that share. Procedure for payment to holders and others entitled 242. Any dividend or other moneys payable in respect of a share may be paid: (a) in cash; or (b) by cheque or warrant made payable to or to the order of the holder or person entitled to payment; or (c) by any direct debit, bank or other funds transfer system to the holder or person entitled to payment or, if practicable, to a person designated by notice to the Company by the holder or person entitled to payment; or (d) by any other method approved by the Board and agreed (in such form as the Company thinks appropriate) by the holder or person entitled to payment including (without limitation) in respect of an uncertificated share by means of the relevant system (subject to the facilities and requirements of the relevant system). Joint entitlement 243. If two or more persons are registered as joint holders of any share, or are entitled by transmission jointly to a share, the Company may: (a) pay any dividend or other moneys payable in respect of the share to any one of them and any one of them may give effectual receipt for that payment; and (b) for the purposes of Article 242, rely in relation to the share on the written direction, designation or agreement of, or notice to the Company by, any one of them. Payment by post 244. A cheque or warrant may be sent by post to: 63
(a) where a share is held by a sole holder, the registered address of the holder of the share; or (b) if two or more persons are the holders, to the registered address of the person who is first named in the register; or (c) if a person is entitled by transmission to the share, as if it were a notice to be given under Articles 254 to 260; or (d) in any case, to such person and to such address as the person entitled to payment may direct by notice to the Company. Discharge to Company and risk 245. Payment of a cheque or warrant by the bank on which it was drawn or the transfer of funds by the bank instructed to make the transfer or, in respect of an uncertificated share, the making of payment in accordance with the facilities and requirements of the relevant system (which, if the relevant system is CREST, shall be the creation of an assured payment obligation in respect of the dividend or other moneys payable in favour of the settlement bank of the member or other person concerned) shall be a good discharge to the Company. Every cheque or warrant sent in accordance with these Articles shall be at the risk of the holder or person entitled. The Company shall have no responsibility for any sums lost or delayed in the course of payment by any other method used by the Company in accordance with Article 242. Interest not payable 246. No dividend or other moneys payable in respect of a share shall bear interest against the Company unless otherwise provided by the rights attached to the share. Forfeiture of unclaimed dividends 247. Any dividend which has remained unclaimed for 12 years from the date when it became due for payment shall, unless the Board resolves otherwise, be forfeited and cease to remain owing by the Company. The payment of any unclaimed dividend or other moneys payable in respect of a share may (but need not) be paid by the Company into an account separate from the Company's own account. Such payment shall not constitute the Company a trustee in respect of it. The Company shall be entitled to cease sending dividend warrants and cheques by post or otherwise to a member if those instruments have been returned undelivered to, or left uncashed by, that member on at least two consecutive occasions, or, following one such occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the member's new address. The entitlement conferred on the Company by this Article in respect of any member shall cease if the member claims a dividend or cashes a dividend warrant or cheque. CAPITALISATION OF PROFITS AND RESERVES Power to capitalise 248. Subject to the provisions of Articles 124 to 129 and the provisions of the Equalization Agreement, the Board may with the authority of an ordinary resolution of the Company: (a) subject to the provisions of this Article, resolve to capitalise any undistributed profits of the Company not required for paying any preferential dividend 64
(whether or not they are available for distribution) or any sum standing to the credit of any reserve or other fund, including without limitation the Company's share premium account and capital redemption reserve, if any; (b) appropriate the sum resolved to be capitalised to the members or any class of members on the record date specified in the relevant resolution who would have been entitled to it if it were distributed by way of dividend and in the same proportions; (c) apply that sum on their behalf either in or towards paying up the amounts, if any, for the time being unpaid on any shares held by them respectively, or in paying up in full unissued shares, debentures or other obligations of the Company of a nominal amount equal to that sum but the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve, and any profits which are not available for distribution may, for the purposes of this Article, only be applied in paying up unissued shares to be allotted to members credited as fully paid; (d) allot the shares, debentures or other obligations credited as fully paid to those members, or as they may direct, in those proportions, or partly in one way and partly in the other; (e) where shares or debentures become, or would otherwise become, distributable under this Article in fractions, make such provision as they think fit for any fractional entitlements including without limitation authorising their sale and transfer to any person, resolving that the distribution be made as nearly as practicable in the correct proportion but not exactly so, ignoring fractions altogether or resolving that cash payments be made to any members in order to adjust the rights of all parties; (f) authorise any person to enter into an agreement with the Company on behalf of all the members concerned providing for either: (i) the allotment to the members respectively, credited as fully paid, of any shares, debentures or other obligations to which they are entitled on the capitalisation; or (ii) the payment up by the Company on behalf of the members of the amounts, or any part of the amounts, remaining unpaid on their existing shares by the application of their respective proportions of the sum resolved to be capitalised, and any agreement made under that authority shall be binding on all such members; and (g) generally do all acts and things required to give effect to the ordinary resolution. RECORD DATES Record dates for dividends, etc. 249. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Articles, the Company or the Board may: 65
(a) fix any date as the record date for any dividend, distribution, allotment or issue, which may be on or at any time before or after any date on which the dividend, distribution, allotment or issue is declared, paid or made; (b) for the purpose of determining which persons are entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company, or a separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, and how many votes such persons may cast, specify in the notice of meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting; changes to the register after the time specified by virtue of this Article 249(b) shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting; and (c) for the purpose of sending notices of general meetings of the Company, or separate general meetings of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, under these Articles, determine that persons entitled to receive such notices are those persons entered on the register at the close of business on a day determined by the Company or the Board, which day may not be more than 21 days before the day that notices of the meeting are sent. ACCOUNTS Rights to inspect records 250. No member shall (as such) have any right to inspect any accounting records or other book or document of the Company except as conferred by statute or authorized by the Board or by ordinary resolution of the Company or order of a court of competent jurisdiction. Sending of annual accounts 251. Subject to the Companies Acts, a copy of the Company's annual accounts, together with a copy of the directors' report for that financial year and the auditors' report on those accounts shall, at least 21 clear days before the date of the meeting at which copies of those documents are to be laid in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, be sent to every member and to every holder of the Company's debentures of whose address the Company is aware, and to every other person who is entitled to receive notice of meetings from the Company under the provisions of the Companies Acts or of these Articles or, in the case of joint holders of any share or debenture, to one of the joint holders. Summary financial statements 252. Subject to the Companies Acts, the requirements of Article 251 shall be deemed satisfied in relation to any person by sending to the person, instead of such copies, a summary financial statement derived from the Company's annual accounts and the directors' report, which shall be in the form and containing the information prescribed by the Companies Acts and any regulations made under the Companies Acts. 66
NOTICES When notice required to be in writing: use of electronic communications 253. Any notice to be sent to or by any person pursuant to these Articles (other than a notice calling a meeting of the Board) shall be in writing. Any such notice may be sent using electronic communications to such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified for that purpose to the person giving the notice by or on behalf of the person to whom the notice is sent. Methods of giving notice 254. The Company may send any notice or other document pursuant to these Articles to a member by whichever of the following methods it may in its absolute discretion determine: (a) personally; or (b) by posting the notice or other document in a prepaid envelope addressed to the member at his registered address; or (c) by leaving the notice or other document at that address; or (d) by sending the notice or other document using electronic communications to such address (if any) as may for the time being be notified to the Company by or on behalf of the member for that purpose. Website publication 255. Subject to the Companies Acts, the Company may also send any notice or other document pursuant to these Articles to a member by publishing that notice or other document on a website where: (a) the Company and the member have agreed to him having access to the notice or document on a website (instead of it being sent to him); (b) the notice or document is one to which that agreement applies; (c) the member is notified, in a manner for the time being agreed between him and the Company for the purpose, of: (i) the publication of the notice or document on a website; (ii) the address of that website; and (iii) the place on that website where the notice or document may be accessed, and how it may be accessed; and (d) the notice or document is published on that website throughout the publication period, provided that, if the notice or document is published on that website for a part, but not all of, the publication period, the notice or document shall be treated as being published throughout that period if the failure to publish that notice or document throughout that period is wholly attributable to circumstances which it would not be reasonable to have expected the Company to prevent or avoid. 67
In this Article 255, "publication period" means: (e) in the case of a notice of an adjourned meeting pursuant to Article 104, a period of not less than seven clear days before the date of the adjourned meeting, beginning on the day following that on which the notification referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above is sent or (if later) is deemed sent; (f) in the case of a notice of a poll pursuant to Article 136, a period of not less than seven clear days before the taking of the poll, beginning on the day following that on which the notification referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above is sent or (if later) is deemed sent; and (g) in any other case, a period of not less than the relevant notice period, beginning on the day following that on which the notification referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above is sent or (if later) is deemed sent. Notice to joint holders 256. In the case of joint holders of a share, all notices or other documents shall be sent to the joint holder whose name stands first in the register in respect of the joint holding. Any notice or other document so sent shall be deemed for all purposes sufficient sending to all the joint holders. Registered address outside United Kingdom 257. A member whose registered address is not within the United Kingdom and who gives to the Company an address within the United Kingdom at which a notice or other document may be sent to him by instrument or an address to which a notice or other document may be sent using electronic communications shall (provided that, in the case of electronic communications, the Company so agrees) be entitled to have notices or other documents sent to him at that address but otherwise: (a) no such member shall be entitled to receive any notice or other document from the Company; and (b) without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, any notice of a general meeting of the Company which is in fact sent or purports to be sent to such member shall be ignored for the purpose of determining the validity of the proceedings at such general meeting. Deemed receipt of notice 258. A member present, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting of the Company or of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company shall be deemed to have been sent notice of the meeting and, where requisite, of the purposes for which it was called. Terms and conditions for electronic communications 259. The Board may from time to time issue, endorse or adopt terms and conditions relating to the use of electronic communications for the sending of notices, other documents and proxy appointments by the Company to members and by members to the Company. 68
Notice includes website notification 260. In this Article and in Articles 261, 262 and 263, references to a notice include without limitation references to any notification required by the Companies Acts or these Articles in relation to the publication of any notices or other documents on a website. Notice to persons entitled by transmission 261. A notice or other document may be sent by the Company to the person or persons entitled by transmission to a share by sending it in any manner the Company may choose authorised by these Articles for the sending of a notice or other document to a member, addressed to them by name, or by the title of representative of the deceased, or trustee of the bankrupt or by any similar description at the address, if any, in the United Kingdom as may be supplied for that purpose by or on behalf of the person or persons claiming to be so entitled. Until such an address has been supplied, a notice or other document may be sent in any manner in which it might have been sent if the death or bankruptcy or other event giving rise to the transmission had not occurred. Transferees etc. bound by prior notice 262. Every person who becomes entitled to a share shall be bound by any notice in respect of that share which, before his name is entered in the register, has been sent to a person from whom he derives his title, provided that no person who becomes entitled by transmission to a share shall be bound by any direction notice issued under Article 154 to a person from whom he derives his title. Proof of sending when sent by post 263. Proof that an envelope containing a notice or other document was properly addressed, prepaid and posted shall be conclusive evidence that the notice or document was sent. Proof that a notice or other document contained in an electronic communication was sent in accordance with guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators current at the date of adoption of these Articles, or, if the Board so resolves, any subsequent guidance so issued, shall be conclusive evidence that the notice or document was sent. A notice or other document sent by the Company to a member by post shall be deemed to be sent: (a) if sent by first class post or special delivery post from an address in the United Kingdom to another address in the United Kingdom, or by a postal service similar to first class post or special delivery post from an address in another country to another address in that other country, on the day following that on which the envelope containing it was posted; (b) if sent by airmail from an address in the United Kingdom to an address outside the United Kingdom, or from an address in another country to an address outside that country (including without limitation an address in the United Kingdom), on the third day following that on which the envelope containing it was posted; and (c) in any other case, on the second day following that on which the envelope containing it was posted. 69
When notices etc. deemed sent by electronic communication 264. A notice or other document sent by the Company to a member contained in an electronic communication shall be deemed sent to the member on the day following that on which the electronic communication was sent to the member. Such a notice or other document shall be deemed sent to the member on that day notwithstanding that the Company becomes aware that the member has failed to receive the relevant notice or other document for any reason and notwithstanding that the Company subsequently sends a copy of such notice or other document by post to the member. Notice during disruption of postal services 265. If at any time the Company is unable effectively to convene a general meeting by notices sent through the post in the United Kingdom as a result of the suspension or curtailment of postal services, notice of general meeting may be sufficiently given by advertisement in the United Kingdom. Any notice given by advertisement for the purpose of this Article shall be advertised on the same date in at least one newspaper having a national circulation. Such notice shall be deemed to have been sent to all persons who are entitled to have notice of meetings sent to them on the day when the advertisement appears. In any such case the Company shall send confirmatory copies of the notice by post if at least seven days before the meeting the posting of notices to addresses throughout the United Kingdom again becomes practicable. The foregoing shall not absolve the Company from any duty to send notice of a general meeting by use of electronic communications pursuant to these Articles. DESTRUCTION OF DOCUMENTS Power of Company to destroy documents 266. The Company shall be entitled to destroy: (a) all instruments of transfer of shares which have been registered, and all other documents on the basis of which any entry is made in the register, at any time after the expiration of six years from the date of registration; (b) all dividend mandates, variations or cancellations of dividend mandates, and notifications of change of address at any time after the expiration of two years from the date of recording; (c) all share certificates which have been cancelled at any time after the expiration of one year from the date of the cancellation; (d) all paid dividend warrants and cheques at any time after the expiration of one year from the date of actual payment; (e) all proxy appointments which have been used for the purpose of a poll at any time after the expiration of one year from the date of use; and (f) all proxy appointments which have not been used for the purpose of a poll at any time after one month from the end of the meeting to which the proxy appointment relates and at which no poll was demanded. 70
Presumption in relation to destroyed documents 267. It shall conclusively be presumed in favour of the Company that: (a) every entry in the register purporting to have been made on the basis of an instrument of transfer or other document destroyed in accordance with Article 266 was duly and properly made; (b) every instrument of transfer destroyed in accordance with Article 266 was a valid and effective instrument duly and properly registered; (c) every share certificate destroyed in accordance with Article 266 was a valid and effective certificate duly and properly cancelled; and (d) every other document destroyed in accordance with Article 266 was a valid and effective document in accordance with its recorded particulars in the books or records of the Company, but: (e) the provisions of this Article apply only to the destruction of a document in good faith and without notice of any claim (regardless of the parties) to which the document might be relevant; (f) nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing on the Company any liability in respect of the destruction of any document earlier than the time specified in Article 266 or in any other circumstances which would not attach to the Company in the absence of this Article; and (g) any reference in Articles 266 and 267 to the destruction of any document includes a reference to its disposal in any manner. UNTRACED SHAREHOLDERS Power to dispose of shares of untraced shareholders 268. The Company shall be entitled to sell, at the best price reasonably obtainable, the shares of a member or the shares to which a person is entitled by transmission if: (a) during the period of 12 years before the date of the publication of the advertisements referred to in Article 268(b) (or, if published on different dates, the first date) (for the purposes of this Article, the "relevant period") at least three dividends in respect of the shares in question have been declared and all dividend warrants and cheques which have been sent in the manner authorized by these Articles in respect of the shares in question have remained uncashed; (b) the Company shall as soon as practicable after expiry of the relevant period have inserted advertisements both in a national daily newspaper and in a newspaper circulating in the area of the last known address of such member or other person giving notice of its intention to sell the shares; (c) during the relevant period and the period of three months following the publication of the advertisements referred to in Article 268(b) (or, if published on 71
different dates, the first date) the Company has received no indication either of the whereabouts or of the existence of such member or person; and (d) if the shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, notice has been given to the London Stock Exchange of the Company's intention to make such sale before the publication of the advertisements. Transfer on sale 269. To give effect to any sale pursuant to Article 268, the Board may: (a) where the shares are held in certificated form, authorise any person to execute an instrument of transfer of the shares to, or in accordance with the directions of, the buyer; or (b) where the shares are held in uncertificated form, do all acts and things it considers necessary or expedient to rematerialise shares into certificated form and/or to effect the transfer of the shares to, or in accordance with the directions of, the buyer. Effectiveness of transfer 270. An instrument of transfer executed by that person in accordance with Article 269(a) shall be as effective as if it had been executed by the holder of, or person entitled by transmission to, the shares. An exercise by the Company of its powers in accordance with Article 269(b) shall be as effective as if exercised by the registered holder of or person entitled by transmission to the shares. The transferee shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money, and his title to the shares shall not be affected by any irregularity in, or invalidity of, the proceedings in reference to the sale. Proceeds of sale 271. The net proceeds of sale shall belong to the Company which shall be obliged to account to the former member or other person previously entitled for an amount equal to the proceeds. The Company shall enter the name of such former member or other person in the books of the Company as a creditor for that amount. In relation to the debt, no trust is created and no interest is payable. The Company shall not be required to account for any money earned on the net proceeds of sale, which may be used in the Company's business or invested in such a way as the Board from time to time thinks fit. LIQUIDATION 272. If either or both of the Company and/or Carnival goes into any voluntary or involuntary Liquidation, the Company and Carnival will, subject to Article 273 below, make and receive such payments or take such other actions required to ensure that the holders of Ordinary Shares of each company would, had each entity gone into Liquidation on the same date, be entitled to receive a Liquidation Distribution which is equivalent on a per share basis in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio, having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate but ignoring any shareholder Tax or Tax Benefit. Liquidation Procedure 273. To establish the amount payable under Article 272, each of the Company and Carnival will determine the amount of assets (if any) it will have available for distribution in a 72
Liquidation on the date of Liquidation (or notional date of Liquidation) to holders of its Ordinary Shares after payment of all its debts and other financial obligations, including any tax costs associated with the realisation of any assets on a Liquidation and any payments due on any preference shares (its "Net Assets"). To the extent that the Net Assets of one company would enable it to make a Liquidation Distribution to the holders of its Ordinary Shares that is greater than the Liquidation Distribution that the other company could pay from its Net Assets to the holders of its Ordinary Shares, adjusting such comparative Liquidation Distribution in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but ignoring any shareholder Tax (including any withholding Tax required to be deducted by the company concerned) or Tax Benefit then subject to Article 274 such company will make a balancing payment (or take any other balancing action described in Article 275 below) in such amount as will ensure that both companies can make equivalent Liquidation Distributions to the holders of their Ordinary Shares in accordance with the then existing Equalization Ratio and having regard to the Liquidation Exchange Rate, but ignoring any shareholder Tax (including any withholding Tax required to be deducted by the company concerned) or Tax Benefit, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT no company need make a balancing payment (or take any other action) as described in this Article 273 if it would result in neither the holders of Carnival Common Stock nor the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares being entitled to receive any Liquidation Distribution at all. 274. For purposes of Article 273, the amount a company is required to pay the other company shall be determined after taking into account all Taxes payable by, and all Tax credits, losses or deductions of, the parties with respect to the payment or receipt of such payment and any such payment may be made on the Equalization Share issued by the paying company if both the Board and the Board of Carnival deem it appropriate. Liquidation Actions 275. In giving effect to the principle regarding a Liquidation of the Company and/or Carnival described above, the Company and/or Carnival shall take such action as may be required to give effect to that principle, which may include: (a) making a payment (of cash or in specie) to the other company; (b) issuing shares (which may include the Equalization Share) to the other party or to holders of Ordinary Shares of the other company and making a distribution or return on such Ordinary Shares; or (c) taking any other action that the Board and the Board of Carnival shall both consider appropriate to give effect to that principle, provided that any action other than a payment of cash by one company to the other shall require the prior approval of the Board and the Board of Carnival. Disposal of assets by liquidator 276. The power of sale of a liquidator shall include a power to sell wholly or partially for shares or debentures or other obligations of another body corporate, either then already constituted or about to be constituted for the purpose of carrying out the sale. 73
SHARE CONTROL LIMIT Trigger of limit 277. Subject to Article 278, if any person (an "Acquiring Person") acquires additional Ordinary Shares or voting control over additional Ordinary Shares and, after giving effect to such acquisition (or, if the Company is subject to the City Code, acquires Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares) such Acquiring Person, whether solely or together with any person or persons Acting in Concert with such Acquiring Person, holds or exercises voting control over Ordinary Shares which equal or are in excess of the Combined Group City Code Limit (such acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares, a "Triggering Acquisition"), then all (i) Ordinary Shares held by the Acquiring Person or over which the Acquiring Person exercises voting control, and (ii) Ordinary Shares held by any party or parties Acting in Concert with such Acquiring Person or over which any party or parties Acting in Concert with such Acquiring Person exercise(s) voting control (the "Acquiring Person Attributable Shares") shall automatically be designated as "Combined Group Restricted Shares" for the purposes of Articles 277 to 287. A Triggering Acquisition can occur more than once and the provisions set forth in Articles 277 to 287 shall apply to every separate Triggering Acquisition or series of Triggering Acquisitions. Qualifying Takeover Offer 278. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 277, if: (a) prior to or simultaneously with a Triggering Acquisition, such Acquiring Person has made a Qualifying Takeover Offer (and, in the event that the Qualifying Takeover Offer was made prior to the Triggering Acquisition, such Qualifying Takeover Offer has not been withdrawn, abandoned or terminated prior to or simultaneously with the Triggering Acquisition), or (b) where the circumstances described in Article 278(a) have not occurred, such Acquiring Person (i) within 10 days after the date on which the applicable Triggering Action occurs, makes a binding public announcement to commence a Qualifying Takeover Offer, and (ii) within 28 days after making the public announcement referred to in 278(b)(i), commences a Qualifying Takeover Offer, then the Acquiring Person Attributable Shares shall not be designated Combined Group Restricted Shares for the purposes of Articles 278 to 287 hereof until the earliest to occur (if at all) of (x) a withdrawal, abandonment or termination of such Qualifying Takeover Offer other than in accordance with its terms, or (y) any amendment, modification or supplement to the terms of either offer constituting the Qualifying Takeover Offer such that, as amended, modified or supplemented, the offers would not constitute a Qualifying Takeover Offer; provided that immediately upon the earliest to occur of the events described in (x) or (y) above, such Acquiring Person Attributable Shares shall be automatically designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares. Determination of Combined Group Excess Shares 279. In the event that any Ordinary Shares are designated Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to Articles 277 or 278: 74
(a) If the Combined Group Restricted Shares (i) consist entirely of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, and (ii) are held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, then all P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held by such person or over which such person exercises voting control which cause the Combined Group City Code Limit to be equalled or exceeded shall automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Articles 286 and 287; (b) If the Combined Group Restricted Shares consist of both Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, and are held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, then: (i) if, after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, (x) the number of votes represented by such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action exceeds or is equal to (y) the number of votes represented by such Carnival Common Stock that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action, then all P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held by such person or over which such person exercises voting control which cause the Combined Group City Code Limit to be equalled or exceeded shall automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Articles 286 and 287; and (ii) if, after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, (x) the number of votes represented by such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action is less than (y) the number of votes represented by such Carnival Common Stock that could be cast with respect to a Joint Electorate Action, such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares shall automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Articles 286 and 287 only to the extent that such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares would give such person ownership or voting control equal to or in excess of the Combined Group City Code Limit, if such limit was applied without regard to any Carnival Common Stock held or subject to the voting control of such person. (c) If the Combined Group Restricted Shares are held by or subject to the voting control of two or more persons Acting in Concert, where: (i) all or a part of such Combined Group Restricted Shares would all have been designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to Article 279(a) had they been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person; or (ii) all or a part of such Combined Group Restricted Shares would have been designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to Article 279(b) had they been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, then such automatic designation as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Articles 286 and 287 shall be made with respect to the same number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held by or subject to the voting control of such persons Acting in Concert as if they had been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, such designation to be made on a pro rata basis based on the number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares each such person holds or over which each such person exercises voting control. 75
Authority of the Board 280. The Board shall have the authority to exercise all rights and powers granted to or vested in the Board or the Company under Articles 277 to 287 and to take any action as it deems necessary or advisable to give effect to the provisions of Articles 277 to 287, including the right and power to interpret the provisions of Articles 277 to 278 and to make all determinations deemed necessary or advisable to give effect to the provisions of Articles 277 to 287. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company shall expressly have the right to effect or procure a transfer of Combined Group Restricted Shares as described in Articles 277 to 287. In the case of ambiguity in the application of any of the provisions of Articles 277 to 287, the Board shall, in its absolute discretion, have the power to determine the application of such provisions with respect to any situation based on the facts known to them. All such actions, calculation, interpretations and determinations which are done or made by the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Company and all other parties. No Director shall be liable for any act or omission pursuant to these Articles 277 to 287 if such action was taken in good faith. 281. Immediately on a trigger of the Combined Group City Code Limit by any member (or any Acquiring Person), such person(s) shall: (a) be deemed to irrevocably appoint the Company as his agent for the sale of the Combined Group Excess Shares, together with all rights attaching thereto, including, but not limited to, the right to do all acts and things, receive (on behalf of the Acquiring Person) the proceeds from the sale of the Combined Group Excess Shares and to negotiate, sign, execute and deliver all documents on behalf of the Acquiring Person which it considers necessary and advisable in connection with the sale of the Combined Group Excess Shares and such appointment shall endure until the ninetieth day after final delivery of the proceeds of the sale of all of the relevant Combined Group Excess Shares to the Company; and (b) authorise any person to execute an instrument of transfer in respect of the Combined Group Excess Shares sold to, or in accordance with the directions of, the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee and/or any subsequent purchaser. The transferee shall not be bound to see to the application of any purchase money and his title to the Combined Group Excess Shares shall not be affected by any irregularity in or invalidity of the proceedings in relation to the sale or transfer; and (c) assist the Company in any and all matters or things relating to the sale of the Combined Group Excess Shares, including, but not limited to, procuring the appointment of the Company by his nominee or trustee, as their agent for the sale of the Combined Group Restricted Shares together with those rights, permissions and authorisations granted in (i) and (ii) above. 282. Articles 277 to 287 override any other provision of these Articles. Notice 283. Any person whose acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares would or does result in any Ordinary Shares being constituted as Combined Group Restricted Shares pursuant to Articles 277 or 278 shall immediately give written notice to 76
the Company of such event and shall provide to the Company such other information as the Company may request in order to determine (i) whether any acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares has resulted or could result in any Ordinary Shares being designated as Combined Group Excess Shares under Article 279, and/or (ii) to what extent any Combined Group Restricted Shares should be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to Article 278. 284. The Company will, as soon as practicable after the Board has knowledge thereof, notify in writing any person who holds any Combined Group Restricted Shares; provided that failure by the Company to give any such notification shall in no way invalidate any of the provisions of Articles 277 to 287. The Company may, at any time after serving such notice referred to in this Article 284, require that the holder(s) of Combined Group Restricted Shares provide the Company with such other information as the Company may request in order to determine (i) whether any acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares has resulted or could result in any Ordinary Shares being designated as Combined Group Excess Shares under Article 279, and/or (ii) to what extent any Combined Group Restricted Shares should be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares pursuant to Article 278. Exclusions 285. The provisions set forth in Articles 277 to 284 and 286 and 287 shall not apply to: (a) any Ordinary Shares to the extent that such restrictions are prohibited pursuant to the Applicable Regulations; or (b) any acquisition of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares by any member of the Arison Group if, as a result, the aggregate of the voting rights of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and of the Carnival Common Stock held by the Arison Group and of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and of the Carnival Common Stock over which the Arison Group, after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, exercises voting control does not thereby (i) increase by one per cent or more in any period of twelve consecutive months and (ii) after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, equal or exceed forty per cent of the aggregate voting rights attached to the whole of the issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the outstanding Carnival Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, (x) a member shall not be deemed to have acquired Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares if solely as a result of a share buyback, cancellation or reduction of share capital, disenfranchisement of voting rights or any other procedure which has the effect of reducing the share capital or the voting share capital of the Company or of Carnival the percentage holding of such person is increased; (y) the transfer of Ordinary Shares or voting control over Ordinary Shares among members of the Arison Group shall not be deemed to be a Triggering Acquisition; or (c) any acquisition by Carnival or any member of the Carnival Group pursuant to a Mandatory Exchange; or (d) any acquisition by any member of the Carnival Group of any Ordinary Shares; or (e) any acquisition by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries from time to time of any Ordinary Shares. 77
COMBINED GROUP EXCESS SHARES 286. The following shall apply to any Combined Group Excess Shares: Ownership in Trust (a) Any Combined Group Excess Shares, as soon as possible after trigger of the Combined Group City Code Limit, shall be transferred by or on behalf of any Acquiring Person to the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee, as trustee of the Combined Group Excess Shares Trust, for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary (subject to the provisions of these Articles). The Acquiring Person shall, immediately after any trigger of the Combined Group City Code Limit, have no rights whatsoever in such Combined Group Excess Shares (except as provided in Articles 286(c), 286(e) and 286(f)), and pending such transfer the Combined Group Excess Shares shall be held by the Acquiring Person on trust for the benefit of the Charitable Beneficiary. The Combined Group Excess Share Trustee may resign at any time so long as the Company shall have appointed a successor trustee. The Combined Group Excess Share Trustee shall, from time to time, designate one or more charitable organisation or organisations as the Charitable Beneficiary. More than one Combined Group Excess Share Trustee may be appointed to hold the Combined Group Excess Shares on trust for one or more Charitable Beneficiaries. Dividend Rights (b) Combined Group Excess Shares shall remain entitled to the same dividends and other distributions as other Ordinary Shares are entitled to, and any dividend or distribution made or paid on Combined Group Excess Shares shall, pending transfer of such shares to the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee, be received by the relevant Acquiring Person in its capacity as trustee for the Charitable Beneficiary. Any dividend or distribution declared, paid or made shall, after the Combined Group Excess Shares have been transferred to the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee, be made or paid to the Combined Group Excess Share Trust. All dividends received or other income earned by the Combined Group Excess Share Trust shall be paid over to the Charitable Beneficiary. Rights Upon Liquidation (c) Upon Liquidation of the Company, an Acquiring Person shall (if it has not already received consideration for the transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares to the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee) receive, for each Combined Group Excess Share, the amount per share of any distribution made upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up less any costs and expenses incurred by the Company, the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee or the Charitable Beneficiary in respect of the transfer or holding of such shares. Voting Rights (d) Pending a transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares by an Acquiring Person, it shall have no rights whatsoever to vote on those shares and those votes shall not be counted for any purpose pursuant to these Articles. The Combined Group Excess Share Trustee shall be entitled (but not required) to vote the Combined Group Excess Shares on behalf of the Charitable Beneficiary on any 78
matter. The Charitable Beneficiary will be deemed to have given an irrevocable proxy to the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee to vote the Combined Group Excess Shares for its benefit. Restrictions on Transfer; Designation of Combined Group Excess Share Trust Beneficiary (e) At the direction of the Board, the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee shall transfer the Combined Group Excess Shares held in the Combined Group Excess Share Trust to a person or persons (including, without limitation, if permitted under Applicable Regulations, to the Company pursuant to Article 286(f) below) whose ownership of such shares shall not cause a trigger of the Combined Group City Code Limit within 180 days after the later of (i) the date of triggering of the Combined Group City Code Limit, and (ii) the date the Board determines or is notified that a trigger of the Combined Group City Code Limit has occurred. If such a transfer is made, the interest of the Charitable Beneficiary shall terminate, the designation of such Ordinary Shares as Combined Group Excess Shares shall thereupon cease and the proceeds of such transfer shall be paid to the Acquiring Person net of any costs incurred by the Company, the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee and/or the Charitable Beneficiary in connection with the transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares to the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee, the holding by the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee of the Combined Group Excess Shares and the transfer of the Combined Group Excess Shares by the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee to such person(s) in accordance with this Article 286(e). Purchase Rights in relation to Combined Group Excess Shares (f) Combined Group Excess Shares held by the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee shall be deemed to have been offered for sale by the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee to the Company, or its designee, at a price per Combined Group Excess Share equal to the Market Price less any costs and expenses incurred by the Company, the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee and/or the Charitable Beneficiary relating to the transfer or holding of the Combined Group Excess Shares and their subsequent purchase by the Company, whereby the "relevant date" for determining the Market Price shall be the date of acquisition of the Combined Group Excess Shares by the Company. The Company shall, to the extent permitted under Applicable Regulations, have the right to accept such offer for a period of ninety (90) days after the later of (i) the date of any breach of Article 277 and (ii) the date the Board determines there has been a breach of Article 277 if the Company does not receive a notice of transfer or other event pursuant to Article 286(e). Underwritten Offerings (g) Ordinary Shares or rights, options or warrants for, or securities convertible into, Ordinary Shares acquired by an underwriter in a public offering or placement agent in a private offering shall not be treated as Combined Group Excess Shares, provided that the underwriter makes a timely distribution of such Ordinary Shares or rights, options or warrants for, or securities convertible into, Ordinary Shares such that, after the distribution, such underwriter or placement agent does not 79
hold or exercise voting control over Ordinary Shares equal to or in excess of the Combined Group City Code Limit. VOTING CONTROL 287. In Articles 277 to 286: (i) references to holding or acquiring shares will also be deemed to include holding or acquiring voting control over shares; (ii) a person will be deemed to have voting control over shares if such person has the power to direct the voting of such shares; (iii) a person will be deemed to acquire shares upon the occurrence of any event which results in such person Acting in Concert with another person with respect to such other person's shares; and (iv) for the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of calculating the voting power held by a person, any voting power represented by the P&O Princess Special Voting Share or the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be ignored. INDEMNITY Indemnity to directors and officers 288. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts but without prejudice to any indemnity to which a director may otherwise be entitled, every director or other officer of the Company or of Carnival shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against any liability incurred by him to the fullest extent permitted under law. MANDATORY EXCHANGE 289. Following the occurrence of an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition thereof, the Board may call a general meeting (which may be an annual general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting) of the members of the Company to consider whether to effect the Mandatory Exchange. Such action by the members of the Company shall be by Supermajority Resolution approved by 66 2/3 per cent. of those voting and shall be a Joint Electorate Action. If the requisite approval is obtained for an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition thereof the Board shall, or following the occurrence of an Exchange Event described in clause (b) of the definition thereof (which, for the avoidance of doubt shall not require the calling of a general meeting or a Supermajority Resolution), the Board may, send an Exchange Notice to each holder of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares (other than non-voting Ordinary Shares held by Carnival or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Carnival) notifying such holder of the Mandatory Exchange (as defined below). On the date specified in the Exchange Notice, which date shall be not less than fourteen days and no more than thirty days after the date of the Exchange Notice, the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held by each member of the Company (other than the Non-Voting Ordinary Shares held by Carnival or a wholly-owned subsidiary of Carnival) shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Article, be automatically exchanged for such number of validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of Carnival Common Stock as are equal to the number of such P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held by such member at such time multiplied by the Equalisation Fraction in effect at such time ("Mandatory Exchange"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, there shall be no entitlement to receive fractional interest in shares and in lieu of such fractional interest the member shall receive from Carnival an amount in cash in U.S. dollars at the Applicable Exchange Rate equal to either: (a) the product of multiplying the fractional interest by the closing price of the Carnival Common Stock on the NYSE (as reported in The Wall Street Journal or, 80
if not reported therein, such other authoritative source as the Board may determine) on the date that the Mandatory Exchange is implemented; or (b) the pro rata entitlement of such member to the net proceeds of the sale of the aggregate fractional entitlements to Carnival Common Stock which shall be sold in the market at the best price reasonably obtainable by Carnival, provided always that Carnival shall be able to choose whether to apply the procedure referred to in (a) or (b) above, shall not be obliged to give any reasons for such choice and such choice shall be conclusive and binding on all persons concerned and shall not be open to challenge on any grounds whatsoever. 290. On the day on which Exchange Notices are served pursuant to Article 289 each member shall: (a) be deemed to irrevocably appoint the Company as his agent to effect the Mandatory Exchange, including, but not limited to, the right to do all acts and things, receive (on behalf of the relevant member) sign, execute and deliver all documents on behalf of the relevant member which it considers necessary and advisable in connection with the Mandatory Exchange and such appointment shall endure until the Mandatory Exchange is completed; and (b) authorise any director to execute an instrument of transfer in respect of the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares which are the subject of the Mandatory Exchange conditional on the issuance of Carnival Common Stock to the relevant member in accordance with Articles 289 to 292; and (a) assist the Company in any and all matters or things relating to the Mandatory Exchange of the P&O Princess Shares held by such member, including, but not limited to, procuring the appointment of the Company as their agent for the exchange together with the rights, permissions and authorisations granted in (a) and (b) above. 291. To the extent that any of the procedures relating to the implementation of the Mandatory Exchange are inconsistent with any Applicable Regulations governing such Mandatory Exchange, such Applicable Regulations shall apply to the implementation of the Mandatory Exchange, and not such procedures or the provisions of this Articles 289 to 292. 292. Any resolution or determination of, or any decision or the exercise of any discretion or power by, the Board under and in accordance with Articles 289 to 292 shall be final and conclusive and they shall not be obliged to give any reasons therefor. Any disposal, transfer, exchange, or other thing done, by or on behalf, or on the authority of the Board pursuant to this Article shall be conclusive and binding on all persons concerned and shall not be open to challenge on any grounds whatsoever. 81
Name and address of subscriber Number of shares taken Michael Gradon One Subscriber Share The Summer House 18 Granville Road Limpsfield, Oxted Surrey RH8 0DA Nicholas Luff One Subscriber Share 30 Kings Avenue Carshalton Surrey SM5 4NX Date: Witness to signatures: 82

Exhibit 99.9 CARNIVAL DEED OF GUARANTEE This Deed of Guarantee ("Guarantee") is made on [.], 2003 between Carnival Corporation ("Carnival") and P&O Princess and is made for the benefit of each Creditor. BACKGROUND Under the Implementation Agreement referred to below, Carnival has agreed with P&O Princess to enter into this Guarantee in respect of certain obligations of P&O Princess (including, without limitation, guarantees by P&O Princess of certain obligations of Principal Debtors). THIS DEED WITNESSES as follows: 1. Definitions and Interpretation 1.1 Definitions In this Guarantee: "Business Day" shall have the meaning given in the Equalization and Governance Agreement; "Creditor" means any Person to whom or to which any Obligation is owed; "Equalization and Governance Agreement" means the Agreement headed "Equalization and Governance Agreement" entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival as of even date with this Guarantee; "Existing Obligation" means, in relation to: (a) any agreement or exclusion referred to in Clause 4; or (b) any termination of this Guarantee; or (c) any amendment to this Guarantee, any Obligation incurred before, or arising out of any credit or similar facility (whether committed or uncommitted) available for use at, the time at which the relevant agreement, exclusion, termination or amendment becomes effective; "Group" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, such company and its Subsidiaries from time to time; "Implementation Agreement" means the Agreement headed "Offer and Implementation Agreement" entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival, dated as of 8 January 2003; "Obligation" means: (a) any contractual monetary obligation (whether primary or secondary (and including, for the avoidance of doubt, any guarantee of the 1
contractual monetary obligations of any Principal Debtor)) incurred by P&O Princess after the date of this Guarantee; and (b) any other obligation of any kind which may be agreed in writing between Carnival and P&O Princess (in their absolute discretion) after the date of this Guarantee (in which case a note of such Obligation will be appended as an exhibit to this Guarantee), other than, in each case, any obligation: (i) to the extent that (without reference to the effect of this Guarantee) it is covered by the terms of any policy of insurance (or any indemnity in the nature of insurance) of which P&O Princess (or, where relevant, the Principal Debtor) has the benefit and which is in full force and effect; (ii) explicitly guaranteed in writing by Carnival (otherwise than under this Guarantee) or for which Carnival agrees in writing to act as co-obligor or co-issuer; (iii) where the arrangement under which the obligation was or is incurred, or the terms of issue of the obligation, explicitly provided or provide(s) that the obligation is not to be an Obligation within the meaning of this Guarantee, or where the Creditor has explicitly agreed or explicitly agrees that the obligation is not to be an Obligation within the meaning of this Guarantee; (iv) owed to Carnival or to any Subsidiary or Subsidiary Undertaking of Carnival or to any of the Subsidiaries or Subsidiary Undertakings of P&O Princess; (v) of P&O Princess under or in connection with the P&O Princess Guarantee or any other guarantee by P&O Princess of any obligation of Carnival or any Subsidiary or Subsidiary Undertaking of Carnival; (vi) excluded from the scope of this Guarantee as provided in Clause 4 (Exclusion Of Certain Obligations) or Clause 5 (Termination); (vii) of P&O Princess incurred under any instrument or agreement existing on or prior to the date of this Guarantee; or (viii) of P&O Princess under a guarantee to the extent that the guaranteed obligation of the Principal Debtor is not a contractual monetary obligation and/or is of a type referred to in any of paragraphs (i) to (vii) of this definition; "Person" includes an individual, company, corporation, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, state or agency of a state (in each case, whether or not having a separate legal personality); "P&O Princess" means P&O Princess Cruises plc, whose registered office at the date of this Guarantee is 77 New Oxford Street, London, WC1A lPP, United Kingdom; 2
"P&O Princess Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee entered into by P&O Princess on or about the date of this Guarantee pursuant to the Implementation Agreement; "Principal Debtor" means, at any time, any Person any of whose obligations are at that time guaranteed by P&O Princess; "Relevant Creditor" has the meaning given in Clause 3.1; "Subsidiary" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such company otherwise has the power to direct; and "Subsidiary Undertaking" has the meaning as defined in section 258 of the Companies Act 1985 (an Act of Parliament). 1.2 Interpretation Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation. The following rules of interpretation apply unless the context requires otherwise. (A) The singular includes the plural and conversely. (B) One gender includes all genders. (C) Where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning. (D) A reference to a person includes a body corporate, an unincorporated body or other entity and conversely. (E) A reference to a Clause is to a Clause of this Guarantee. (F) A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time, except to the extent prohibited by this Guarantee. (G) A reference to any legislation (including any listing rules of a stock exchange or voluntary codes) or to any provision of any legislation includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative provision substituted for it and all regulations and statutory instruments issued under it. (H) A reference to writing includes a facsimile transmission and any means of reproducing words in a tangible and permanently visible form. (I) Mentioning anything after include, includes, or including does not limit what else might be included. Where particular words are following by general words, the general words are not limited by the particular. (J) Reference to a body other than Carnival or P&O Princess (including any government agency), whether statutory or not: 3
(i) which ceases to exist; or (ii) whose powers or functions are transferred to another body, is a reference to the body which replaces it or which substantially succeeds to its powers or functions. (K) All references to time are to the local time in the place where the relevant obligation is to be performed (or right exercised). 2. Effect Of This Guarantee This Guarantee shall take effect as a deed and it is intended that each Creditor severally shall be entitled to benefit from the terms of this Guarantee pursuant to the terms of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 save that the parties hereto shall be entitled to make any variation or rescission of its terms, in accordance with its terms (including, without limitation, pursuant to Clause 4), without the consent of any Creditor or of any third party. 3. Guarantee and Indemnity 3.1 Subject to the terms of this Guarantee, Carnival unconditionally and irrevocably undertakes and promises to P&O Princess that it shall, as a continuing obligation, make to the Creditor to whom or to which it is owed (the "Relevant Creditor") the proper and punctual payment of each Obligation if for any reason P&O Princess does not make such payment on its due date. If for any reason P&O Princess does not make such payment on its due date, Carnival shall pay the amount due and unpaid to the Relevant Creditor upon written demand upon Carnival by the Relevant Creditor. In this Clause 3, references to the Obligations include references to any part of them. 3.2 The obligations of Carnival under this Guarantee shall be continuing obligations and shall not be satisfied, discharged or affected by any intermediate payment or settlement of account. 3.3 For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Guarantee shall require, bind or oblige Carnival to fulfil any non-monetary Obligation of P&O Princess of any kind. 3.4 In the event that Carnival is required to make any payment to any Creditor pursuant to Clause 3.1 and/or 3.11 and does make such payment, P&O Princess unconditionally and irrevocably agrees by way of a full indemnity to reimburse Carnival in respect of such payments. 3.5 A demand may not be made under this Guarantee without: (A) a demand first having been made by the Relevant Creditor on P&O Princess; and/or (B) to the extent, if any, that the terms of the relevant Obligation of P&O Princess (or the underlying obligation of the relevant Principal Debtor) require such recourse, recourse first being had to any other Person or to any security. 3.6 Unless otherwise provided in this Guarantee, the liabilities and obligations of Carnival under this Guarantee shall remain in force notwithstanding any act, omission, neglect, event or matter which would not affect or discharge the liabilities of P&O Princess 4
owed to the Relevant Creditor. Without prejudice to its generality, the foregoing shall apply in relation to: (A) anything which would have discharged Carnival (wholly or in part) but not P&O Princess; (B) anything which would have offered Carnival (but not P&O Princess) any legal or equitable defence; and (C) any winding-up, insolvency, dissolution and/or analogous proceeding of, or any change in constitution or corporate identity or loss of corporate identity by, P&O Princess or any other Person. 3.7 Section 3(2) and (4) of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 shall not apply to this Guarantee and accordingly: (A) In respect of any claim against Carnival by a Creditor, Carnival shall not have available to it by way of defence or set off any matter that arises from or in connection with this Guarantee, and which would have been available to Carnival by way of defence or set-off if the proceedings had been brought against Carnival by P&O Princess. (B) Carnival shall not have available to it by way of defence or set-off any matter that would have been available to it by way of defence or set-off against the Creditor if the Creditor had been a party to this Guarantee. (C) Carnival shall not have available to it by way of counterclaim any matter not arising from this Guarantee that would have been available to it by way of counterclaim against the Creditor if the Creditor had been a party to this Guarantee. 3.8 Any discharge or release of any liabilities and obligations of Carnival under this Guarantee, and any composition or arrangement which Carnival may effect with any Creditor in respect of any such liabilities or obligations, shall be deemed to be made subject to the condition that it will be void to the extent that any or all of the payment or security which the Creditor may previously have received or may thereafter receive from any Person in respect of the relevant Obligations is set aside or reduced under any applicable law or proves to have been for any reason invalid. 3.9 Without prejudice to the generality of this Clause 3, and to Clause 3.10 in particular, none of the liabilities or obligations of Carnival under this Guarantee shall be impaired by any Creditor: (A) agreeing with P&O Princess any variation of or departure from (however substantial) the terms of any Obligation and any such variation or departure shall, whatever its nature, be binding upon Carnival in all circumstances; or (B) releasing or granting any time or any indulgence whatsoever to P&O Princess. 3.10 Despite anything else in this Guarantee (including Clause 3.9), no variation of or departure from the terms of any Obligation (or any underlying obligation of any Principal Debtor) agreed with P&O Princess or any Principal Debtor, as applicable, after termination of this Guarantee or exclusion of that Obligation shall be binding on 5
Carnival (or extend its liabilities and obligations under this Guarantee) except to the extent, if any, that: (A) Carnival explicitly agrees in writing to that variation or departure at the same time as P&O Princess or that Principal Debtor; or (B) it reduces Carnival's obligations or liability under this Guarantee. 3.11 As a separate, additional and continuing obligation, Carnival unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that, should any Obligation not be recoverable from Carnival under Clause 3.1 as a result of the Obligation becoming void, voidable or unenforceable against P&O Princess, Carnival undertakes with P&O Princess that it will, as a sole, original and independent obligor, make payment of the Obligation to the Relevant Creditor by way of a full indemnity on the due date provided for payment by the terms of the Obligation. 3.12 Carnival shall, if requested by P&O Princess, (i) enter into agreements to act as a co-issuer or co-borrower with respect to any Obligation of P&O Princess or (ii) execute and deliver a separate guarantee agreement of any Obligation of P&O Princess, in each case, on terms satisfactory to Carnival and P&O Princess. If Carnival enters into such agreements with respect to any Obligation of P&O Princess, Carnival and P&O Princess may agree that such Obligation shall be excluded from the scope of this Guarantee in accordance with Clause 4. 4. Exclusion Of Certain Obligations 4.1 Subject to Clauses 4.2 and 4.3, Carnival and P&O Princess may at any time agree that obligations of a particular type, or a particular obligation or particular obligations, incurred after the time at which such exclusion becomes effective shall be excluded from the scope of this Guarantee (and shall not be "Obligations" for the purpose of this Guarantee) with effect from such future time (being at least 3 months after the date on which notice of the relevant exclusion is given in accordance with Clause 8.2 or, where the Obligation is a particular obligation, at least 5 Business Days, or such shorter period as the relevant Creditor may agree, after the date on which notice of the relevant exclusion is given in accordance with Clause 4.5) as they may agree. 4.2 No such agreement or exclusion shall be effective with respect to any Existing Obligation. 4.3 No such agreement or exclusion shall be effective unless and until Carnival and P&O Princess enter into a supplemental deed specifying the relevant exclusion and the time at which it is to become effective. 4.4 Notice of any such exclusion of obligations of a particular type, of the time at which such exclusion is to become effective, and of the date of the related supplemental deed shall be given in accordance with Clause 8.2. 4.5 Notice of any such exclusion of a particular obligation and of the time at which it is to become effective shall be given to the relevant Creditor in writing addressed to that Creditor at the last address of that Creditor known to Carnival and shall be effective when delivered to that address. It shall not be necessary for the related supplemental deed to have been entered into before that notice is sent, nor for the notice to state the date of the related supplemental deed. 6
5. Termination 5.1 Subject to Clause 5.3, this Guarantee shall automatically terminate if, and with effect from, the same time as: (A) the Equalization and Governance Agreement terminates or otherwise ceases to have effect; or (B) the P&O Princess Guarantee terminates or otherwise ceases to have effect. 5.2 Subject to Clause 5.3, Carnival may at any time terminate this Guarantee by giving notice under Clause 8.2 with effect from such future time (being at least 3 months after the date on which such notice of termination is given) as it may determine. Subject to the next sentence, no such termination under this Clause 5.2 shall be effective unless P&O Princess agrees to such termination before such notice is given. However, such termination shall not require the agreement of P&O Princess if: (A) Carnival has given notice of the proposed termination of this Guarantee in accordance with Clause 8.2; and (B) prior to the date set out in such notice, a resolution is passed or an order is made for the liquidation of P&O Princess. 5.3 No such termination shall be effective with respect to any Existing Obligation. 5.4 Notice of any automatic termination under Clause 5.1, and of the time at which it became effective, shall be given in accordance with Clause 8.2 within 10 Business Days of such termination. 6. Amendments 6.1 Subject to Clause 6.2, Carnival and P&O Princess may at any time amend this Guarantee by giving notice under Clause 8.2 with effect from such future time (being at least 3 months after the date on which notice of such amendment is given) as they may determine. 6.2 No such amendment shall be effective with respect to any Existing Obligation. 6.3 No such amendment shall be effective unless and until Carnival and P&O Princess enter into a supplemental deed specifying the relevant amendment and the time at which it is to become effective. 6.4 Notice of any such amendment, of the time at which it is to become effective, and of the date of the related supplemental deed shall be given in accordance with Clause 8.2. 7. Currency 7.1 All payments to be made under this Guarantee shall be made in the currency or currencies in which the Obligations are expressed to be payable by P&O Princess. 7.2 If, under any applicable law, whether as a result of a judgment against Carnival or P&O Princess or the liquidation of Carnival or P&O Princess or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Guarantee is made or is recovered in a 7
currency (the "other currency") other than that in which it is required to be paid under the terms of the relevant Obligation (the "agreed currency") then, to the extent that the payment to the Creditor (when converted at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, or in the case of a liquidation, the latest date for the determination of liabilities permitted by the applicable law) falls short of the amount due and unpaid in respect of that Obligation, Carnival undertakes with P&O Princess that it shall, as a separate and independent obligation, fully indemnify the Creditor against the amount of the shortfall, and for the purposes of this Clause 7, "rate of exchange" means the spot rate at which the Creditor is able on the relevant date to purchase the agreed currency with the other currency. 8. Notices 8.1 Any notice to or demand upon Carnival under this Guarantee shall be in writing addressed to it at its principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being (marked for the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, with a copy sent to the General Counsel and Secretary) and shall be effective when delivered to that principal place of business. 8.2 Any notice to or demand upon P&O Princess under this Guarantee shall be in writing addressed to it at its principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being (marked for the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, with a copy sent to the General Counsel and Secretary) and shall be effective when delivered to that principal place of business. 8.3 Any notice by Carnival under Clause 4.4, 5.4 or 6.4 shall be given by advertisements in the Financial Times (London Edition) and the Wall Street Journal (but, if at any time Carnival determines that advertisement in such newspaper(s) is not practicable, the relevant advertisement shall instead be published in such other newspaper(s) circulating generally in the United Kingdom or the U.S.A., as the case may be, as Carnival shall determine). Any such notice shall be deemed given on the date of publication in such newspaper in the United Kingdom or the U.S.A., as the case may be (or, where such advertisements are published on different dates, on the later of such dates). 8.4 The original counterparts of this Guarantee and of any related supplemental deeds shall be kept at, respectively, the principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being of Carnival and the principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being of P&O Princess and shall be available for inspection there on reasonable notice during the normal business hours of that office. 9. General 9.1 Prohibition and Enforceability Any provision of, or the application of any provision of, this Guarantee which is void, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction does not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction or of the remaining provisions in that or any other jurisdiction. 9.2 Further Assurances 8
Carnival and P&O Princess shall take all steps, execute all documents and do everything reasonably required to give effect to their rights, liabilities and obligations contemplated by this Guarantee. 9.3 No Novation Neither Carnival nor P&O Princess may novate any of their rights, liabilities or obligations under this Guarantee, in whole or in part. 9.4 Counterparts This Guarantee may be executed in any number of counterparts. All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one and the same instrument. 10. Law and Jurisdiction 10.1 This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Isle of Man. 10.2 Any legal action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee shall be brought exclusively in the courts of England. 10.3 Carnival and P&O Princess irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts and waive any objection to proceedings in any such court on the ground of venue or on the ground that the proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum. 9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF EXECUTED as a DEED by ) CARNIVAL CORPORATION ) acting by [.] [and [.]] [who, in ) accordance with the laws of the ) ........................... territory in which Carnival Corporation ) ........................... is incorporated, is/are] acting under ) (Authorised signatory(ies)) the authority of Carnival Corporation EXECUTED as a DEED by ) P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC ) acting by two of its directors/a director and ) secretary ) Director Director/Secretary 10
AGREED FORM DATED 2003 --------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- CARNIVAL CORPORATION DEED OF GUARANTEE ----------------------------------------------------------------- 11

Exhibit 99.10 P&O PRINCESS DEED OF GUARANTEE This Deed of Guarantee ("Guarantee") is made on ________, 2003 between P&O Princess Cruises plc ("P&O Princess") and Carnival for the benefit of each Creditor. BACKGROUND Under the Implementation Agreement referred to below, P&O Princess has agreed with Carnival to enter into this Guarantee in respect of certain obligations of Carnival (including, without limitation, guarantees by Carnival of certain obligations of Principal Debtors). THIS DEED WITNESSES as follows: 1. Definitions and Interpretation 1.1 Definitions In this Guarantee: "Business Day" shall have the meaning given in the Equalization and Governance Agreement; "Carnival" means Carnival Corporation, a Panamanian company, having its principal place of business at Carnival Place, 3655, 87 Avenue, Miami, Florida, 33178-2482; "Carnival Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee entered into by Carnival on or about the date of this Guarantee pursuant to the Implementation Agreement; "Creditor" means any Person to whom or to which any Obligation is owed; "Equalization and Governance Agreement" means the Agreement headed "Equalization and Governance Agreement" entered into between Carnival and P&O Princess as of even date with this Guarantee; "Existing Obligation" means, in relation to: (i) any agreement or exclusion referred to in Clause 4; or (ii) any termination of this Guarantee; or (iii) any amendment to this Guarantee, any Obligation incurred before, or arising out of any credit or similar facility (whether committed or uncommitted) available for use at, the time at which the relevant agreement, exclusion, termination or amendment becomes effective; "Group" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, such company and its Subsidiaries from time to time; "Implementation Agreement" means the Agreement headed "Offer and Implementation Agreement" entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival, dated as of 8 January 2003; 1
"Obligation" means: (a) any contractual monetary obligation (whether primary or secondary (and including, for the avoidance of doubt, any guarantee of the contractual monetary obligations of any Principal Debtor)) incurred by Carnival after the date of this Guarantee; and (b) any other obligation of any kind which may be agreed in writing between Carnival and P&O Princess (in their absolute discretion) after the date of this Guarantee (in which case a note of such Obligation will be appended as an exhibit to this Guarantee), other than, in each case, any obligation: (i) to the extent that (without reference to the effect of this Guarantee) it is covered by the terms of any policy of insurance (or any indemnity in the nature of insurance) of which Carnival (or, where relevant, the Principal Debtor) has the benefit and which is in full force and effect; (ii) explicitly guaranteed in writing by P&O Princess (otherwise than under this Guarantee) or for which P&O Princess agrees in writing to act as co-obligor or co-issuer; (iii) where the arrangement under which the obligation was or is incurred, or the terms of issue of the obligation, explicitly provided or provide(s) that the obligation is not to be an Obligation within the meaning of this Guarantee, or where the Creditor has explicitly agreed or explicitly agrees that the obligation is not to be an Obligation within the meaning of this Guarantee; (iv) owed to P&O Princess or to any Subsidiary or Subsidiary Undertaking of P&O Princess or to any of the Subsidiaries or Subsidiary Undertakings of Carnival; (v) of Carnival under or in connection with the Carnival Guarantee or any other guarantee by Carnival of any obligation of P&O Princess or any Subsidiary or Subsidiary Undertaking of P&O Princess; (vi) excluded from the scope of this Guarantee as provided in Clause 4 (Exclusion Of Certain Obligations) or Clause 5 (Termination); (vii) of Carnival incurred under any instrument or agreement existing on or prior to the date of this Guarantee; or (viii) of Carnival under a guarantee to the extent that the guaranteed obligation of the Principal Debtor is not a contractual monetary obligation and/or is of a type referred to in any of paragraphs (i) to (vii) of this definition; "Person" includes an individual, company, corporation, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, state or agency of a state (in each case, whether or not having a separate legal personality); "Principal Debtor" means, at any time, any Person any of whose obligations are at that time guaranteed by Carnival; 2
"Relevant Creditor" has the meaning given in Clause 3.1; "Subsidiary" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such company otherwise has the power to direct; and "Subsidiary Undertaking" has the meaning as defined in section 258 of the Companies Act 1985 (an Act of Parliament). 1.2 Interpretation Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation. The following rules of interpretation apply unless the context requires otherwise. (A) The singular includes the plural and conversely. (B) One gender includes all genders. (C) Where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning. (D) A reference to any person includes a body corporate, an unincorporated body or other entity and conversely. (E) A reference to a Clause is to a Clause of this Guarantee. (F) A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time, except to the extent prohibited by this Guarantee. (G) A reference to any legislation (including any listing rules of a stock exchange or voluntary codes) or to any provision of any legislation includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative provision substituted for it and all regulations and statutory instruments issued under it. (H) A reference to writing includes a facsimile transmission and any means of reproducing words in a tangible and permanently visible form. (I) Mentioning anything after include, includes, or including does not limit what else might be included. Where particular words are following by general words, the general words are not limited by the particular. (J) Reference to a body other than P&O Princess or Carnival (including any government agency), whether statutory or not: (i) which ceases to exist; or (ii) whose powers or functions are transferred to another body, is a reference to the body which replaces it or which substantially succeeds to its powers or functions. 3
(K) All references to time are to the local time in the place where the relevant obligation is to be performed (or right exercised). 2. Effect Of This Guarantee This Guarantee shall take effect as a deed and it is intended that each Creditor severally shall be entitled to benefit from the terms of this Guarantee pursuant to the terms of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 save that the parties hereto shall be entitled to make any variation or rescission of its terms, in accordance with its terms (including, without limitation, pursuant to Clause 4), without the consent of any Creditor or of any third party. 3. Guarantee and Indemnity 3.1 Subject to the terms of this Guarantee, P&O Princess unconditionally and irrevocably undertakes and promises to Carnival that it shall make to the Creditor to whom or to which it is owed (the "Relevant Creditor") the proper and punctual payment of each Obligation if for any reason Carnival does not make such payment on its due date. If for any reason Carnival does not make such payment on its due date, P&O Princess shall pay the amount due and unpaid to the Relevant Creditor upon written demand upon P&O Princess by the Relevant Creditor. In this Clause 3, references to the Obligations include references to any part of them. 3.2 The obligations of P&O Princess under this Guarantee shall be continuing obligations and shall not be satisfied, discharged or affected by any intermediate payment or settlement of account. 3.3 For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Guarantee shall require, bind or oblige P&O Princess to fulfil any non-monetary Obligation of Carnival of any kind. 3.4 In the event that P&O Princess is required to make any payment to any Creditor pursuant to Clause 3.1 and/or 3.11 and does make such payment, Carnival unconditionally and irrevocably agrees by way of a full indemnity to reimburse P&O Princess in respect of such payments. 3.5 A demand may not be made under this Guarantee without: (A) a demand first having been made by the Relevant Creditor on Carnival; and/or (B) to the extent, if any, that the terms of the relevant Obligation of Carnival (or the underlying obligation of the relevant Principal Debtor) require such recourse, recourse first being had to any other Person or to any security. 3.6 Unless otherwise provided in this Guarantee, the liabilities and obligations of P&O Princess under this Guarantee shall remain in force notwithstanding any act, omission, neglect, event or matter which would not affect or discharge the liabilities of Carnival owed to the Relevant Creditor. Without prejudice to its generality, the foregoing shall apply in relation to: (A) anything which would have discharged P&O Princess (wholly or in part) but not Carnival; (B) anything which would have offered P&O Princess (but not Carnival) any legal or equitable defence; and 4
(C) any winding-up, insolvency, dissolution and/or analogous proceeding of, or any change in constitution or corporate identity or loss of corporate identity by, Carnival or any other Person. 3.7 Section 3(2) and (4) of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001 shall not apply to this Guarantee and accordingly: (A) In respect of any claim against P&O Princess by a Creditor, P&O Princess shall not have available to it by way of defence or set off any matter that arises from or in connection with this Guarantee, and which would have been available to P&O Princess by way of defence or set-off if the proceedings had been brought against P&O Princess by Carnival. (B) P&O Princess shall not have available to it by way of defence or set-off any matter that would have been available to it by way of defence or set-off against the Creditor if the Creditor had been a party to this Guarantee. (C) P&O Princess shall not have available to it by way of counterclaim any matter not arising from this Guarantee that would have been available to it by way of counterclaim against the Creditor if the Creditor had been a party to this Guarantee. 3.8 Any discharge or release of any liabilities and obligations of P&O Princess under this Guarantee, and any composition or arrangement which P&O Princess may effect with any Creditor in respect of any such liabilities or obligations, shall be deemed to be made subject to the condition that it will be void to the extent that any or all of the payment or security which the Creditor may previously have received or may thereafter receive from any Person in respect of the relevant Obligations is set aside or reduced under any applicable law or proves to have been for any reason invalid. 3.9 Without prejudice to the generality of this Clause 3, and to Clause 3.10 in particular, none of the liabilities or obligations of P&O Princess under this Guarantee shall be impaired by any Creditor: (A) agreeing with Carnival any variation of or departure from (however substantial) the terms of any Obligation and any such variation or departure shall, whatever its nature, be binding upon P&O Princess in all circumstances; or (B) releasing or granting any time or any indulgence whatsoever to Carnival. 3.10 Despite anything else in this Guarantee (including Clause 3.9), no variation of or departure from the terms of any Obligation (or any underlying obligation of any Principal Debtor) agreed with Carnival or any Principal Debtor, as applicable, after termination of this Guarantee or exclusion of that Obligation shall be binding on P&O Princess (or extend its liabilities and obligations under this Guarantee) except to the extent, if any, that: (A) P&O Princess explicitly agrees in writing to that variation or departure at the same time as Carnival or that Principal Debtor; or 5
(B) it reduces P&O Princess' obligations or liability under this Guarantee. 3.11 As a separate, additional and continuing obligation, P&O Princess unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that, should any Obligation not be recoverable from P&O Princess under Clause 3.1 as a result of the Obligation becoming void, voidable or unenforceable against Carnival, P&O Princess undertakes with Carnival that it will, as a sole, original and independent obligor, make payment of the Obligation to the Relevant Creditor by way of a full indemnity on the due date provided for payment by the terms of the Obligation. 3.12 P&O Princess shall, if requested by Carnival, (i) enter into agreements to act as a co-issuer or co-borrower with respect to any Obligation of Carnival or (ii) execute and deliver a separate guarantee agreement of any Obligation of Carnival, in each case, on terms satisfactory to P&O Princess and Carnival. If P&O Princess enters into such agreements with respect to any Obligation of Carnival, P&O Princess and Carnival may agree that such Obligation shall be excluded from the scope of this Guarantee in accordance with Clause 4 hereof. 4. Exclusion Of Certain Obligations 4.1 Subject to Clauses 4.2 and 4.3, P&O Princess and Carnival may at any time agree that obligations of a particular type, or a particular obligation or particular obligations, incurred after the time at which such exclusion becomes effective shall be excluded from the scope of this Guarantee (and shall not be "Obligations" for the purpose of this Guarantee) with effect from such future time (being at least 3 months after the date on which notice of the relevant exclusion is given in accordance with Clause 8.2 or, where the Obligation is a particular obligation, at least 5 Business Days, or such shorter period as the relevant Creditor may agree, after the date on which notice of the relevant exclusion is given in accordance with Clause 4.5) as they may agree. 4.2 No such agreement or exclusion shall be effective with respect to any Existing Obligation. 4.3 No such agreement or exclusion shall be effective unless and until P&O Princess and Carnival enter into a supplemental deed specifying the relevant exclusion and the time at which it is to become effective. 4.4 Notice of any such exclusion of obligations of a particular type, of the time at which such exclusion is to become effective, and of the date of the related supplemental deed, shall be given in accordance with Clause 8.2. 4.5 Notice of any such exclusion of a particular obligation and of the time at which it is to become effective shall be given to the relevant Creditor in writing addressed to that Creditor at the last address of that Creditor known to P&O Princess and shall be effective when delivered to that address. It shall not be necessary for the related supplemental deed to have been entered into before that notice is sent, nor for the notice to state the date of the related supplemental deed. 5. Termination 5.1 Subject to Clause 5.3, this Guarantee shall automatically terminate if, and with effect from, the same time as: 6
(A) the Equalization and Governance Agreement terminates or otherwise ceases to have effect; or (B) the Carnival Guarantee terminates or otherwise ceases to have effect. 5.2 Subject to Clause 5.3, P&O Princess may at any time terminate this Guarantee by giving notice under Clause 8.2 with effect from such future time (being at least 3 months after the date on which such notice of termination is given) as it may determine. Subject to the next sentence, no such termination under this Clause 5.2 shall be effective unless Carnival agrees to such termination before such notice is given. However, such termination shall not require the agreement of Carnival if: (A) P&O Princess has given notice of the proposed termination of this Guarantee in accordance with Clause 8.2; and (B) prior to the date set out in such notice, a resolution is passed or an order is made for the liquidation of Carnival. 5.3 No such termination shall be effective with respect to any Existing Obligation. 5.4 Notice of any automatic termination under Clause 5.1, and of the time at which it became effective, shall be given in accordance with Clause 8.2 within 10 Business Days of such termination. 6. Amendments 6.1 Subject to Clause 6.2, P&O Princess and Carnival may at any time amend this Guarantee by giving notice under Clause 8.2 with effect from such future time (being at least 3 months after the date on which notice of such amendment is given) as they may determine. 6.2 No such amendment shall be effective with respect to any Existing Obligation. 6.3 No such amendment shall be effective unless and until P&O Princess and Carnival enter into a supplemental deed specifying the relevant amendment and the time at which it is to become effective. 6.4 Notice of any such amendment, of the time at which it is to become effective, and of the date of the related supplemental deed, shall be given in accordance with Clause 8.2. 7. Currency 7.1 All payments to be made under this Guarantee shall be made in the currency or currencies in which the Obligations are expressed to be payable by Carnival. 7.2 If, under any applicable law, whether as a result of a judgment against P&O Princess or Carnival or the liquidation of P&O Princess or Carnival or for any other reason, any payment under or in connection with this Guarantee is made or is recovered in a currency (the "other currency") other than that in which it is required to be paid under the terms of the relevant Obligation (the "agreed currency") then, to the extent that the payment to the Creditor (when converted at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, or in the case of a liquidation, the latest date for the determination of 7
liabilities permitted by the applicable law) falls short of the amount due and unpaid in respect of that Obligation, P&O Princess undertakes with Carnival that it shall, as a separate and independent obligation, fully indemnify the Creditor against the amount of the shortfall, and for the purposes of this Clause 7, "rate of exchange" means the spot rate at which the Creditor is able on the relevant date to purchase the agreed currency with the other currency. 8. Notices 8.1 Any notice to or demand upon P&O Princess under this Guarantee shall be in writing addressed to it at its principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being (marked for the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, with a copy sent to the General Counsel and Secretary) and shall be effective when delivered to that principal place of business. 8.2 Any notice to or demand upon Carnival under this Guarantee shall be in writing addressed to it at its principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being (marked for the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, with a copy sent to the General Counsel and Secretary) and shall be effective when delivered to that principal place of business. 8.3 Any notice by P&O Princess under Clause 4.4, 5.4 or 6.4 shall be given by advertisements in the Financial Times (London Edition) and the Wall Street Journal (but, if at any time P&O Princess determines that advertisement in such newspaper(s) is not practicable, the relevant advertisement shall instead be published in such other newspaper(s) circulating generally in the United Kingdom or the U.S.A., as the case may be, as P&O Princess shall determine). Any such notice shall be deemed given on the date of publication in such newspaper in the United Kingdom or the U.S.A., as the case may be (or, where such advertisements are published on different dates, on the later of such dates). 8.4 The original counterparts of this Guarantee and of any related supplemental deeds shall be kept at, respectively, the principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being of P&O Princess and the principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being of Carnival and shall be available for inspection there on reasonable notice during the normal business hours of that office. 9. General 9.1 Prohibition and Enforceability Any provision of, or the application of any provision of, this Guarantee which is void, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction does not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction or of the remaining provisions in that or any other jurisdiction. 9.2 Further Assurances P&O Princess and Carnival shall take all steps, execute all documents and do everything reasonably required to give effect to their rights, liabilities and obligations contemplated by this Guarantee. 8
9.3 No Novation Neither P&O Princess nor Carnival may not novate any of their rights, liabilities or obligations under this Guarantee, in whole or in part. 9.4 Counterparts This Guarantee may be executed in any number of counterparts. All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one and the same instrument. 10. Law and Jurisdiction 10.1 This Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Isle of Man. 10.2 Any legal action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Guarantee shall be brought exclusively in the courts of England. 10.3 P&O Princess and Carnival irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts and waive any objection to proceedings in any such court on the ground of venue or on the ground that the proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum. 9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF EXECUTED as a DEED by ) P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC ) acting by two of its directors/a director and ) secretary ) Director Director/Secretary EXECUTED as a DEED by ) CARNIVAL CORPORATION ) acting by [.] [and [.]] [who, in ) accordance with the laws of the ) ............................ territory in which Carnival Corporation ) ............................ is incorporated, is/are] acting under ) (Authorised signatory(ies)) the authority of Carnival Corporation 10
AGREED FORM DATED 2003 -------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC DEED OF GUARANTEE ------------------------------------------------------------------- 11

Exhibit 99.11 CARNIVAL CORPORATION DEED THIS DEED is made on [.] 2003 by Carnival Corporation ("Carnival") and P&O Princess for the benefit of the P&O Princess Shareholders. BACKGROUND Carnival has agreed with P&O Princess to enter into this Deed in respect of certain obligations of Carnival to effect the Mandatory Exchange under the P&O Princess Articles of Association. THIS DEED WITNESSES as follows: 1. Definitions and Interpretation 1.1 Definitions In this Deed: "Business Day" has the meaning given in the Equalization and Governance Agreement; "Carnival Common Stock" means the issued and outstanding common stock, par value US $0.01 per share, of Carnival from time to time, as the same may be sub-divided or consolidated from time to time and any capital stock into which such common stock may be reclassified, converted or otherwise changed; "Completion" has the meaning given to it in the Equalization and Governance Agreement; "Equalization and Governance Agreement" means the Agreement headed "Equalization and Governance Agreement" entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival as of the date of this Deed; "Exchange Notice" has the meaning given in the P&O Princess Articles of Association; "Group" means, in relation to Carnival or P&O Princess, such company and its Subsidiaries from time to time; "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement headed "Offer and Implementation Agreement" entered into between P&O Princess and Carnival as of 8 January 2003; "Mandatory Exchange" has the meaning given to it in the P&O Princess Articles; "P&O Princess" means P&O Princess Cruises plc, whose registered office at the date of this Deed is 77 New Oxford Street, London, WC1A lPP, United Kingdom; "P&O Princess Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of P&O Princess which will be in effect immediately following Completion; 1
"P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to it in the P&O Princess Articles; "P&O Princess Shareholders" means those persons from time to time being registered as holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares; "Person" includes an individual, company, corporation, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, state or agency of a state (in each case, whether or not having a separate legal personality); and "Subsidiary" means, with respect to Carnival or P&O Princess, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such company otherwise has the power to direct. 1.2 Interpretation Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation. The following rules of interpretation apply unless the context requires otherwise. (A) The singular includes the plural and conversely. (B) One gender includes all genders. (C) Where a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning. (D) A reference to a Clause is to a Clause of this Deed. (E) A reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time, except to the extent prohibited by this Deed. (F) A reference to any legislation (including any listing rules of a stock exchange or voluntary codes) or to any provision of any legislation includes any modification or re-enactment of it, any legislative provision substituted for it and all regulations and statutory instruments issued under it. (G) Mentioning anything after include, includes, or including does not limit what else might be included. Where particular words are following by general words, the general words are not limited by the particular. (H) Reference to a body other than Carnival or P&O Princess (including any government agency), whether statutory or not: (i) which ceases to exist; or (ii) whose powers or functions are transferred to another body, is a reference to the body which replaces it or which substantially succeeds to its powers or functions. 2
(I) All references to time are to the local time in the place where the relevant obligation is to be performed (or right exercised). 2. Effect Of This Deed This Deed shall take effect for the benefit of the P&O Princess Shareholders, and it is intended that each P&O Princess Shareholder shall be entitled to benefit from the terms of this Deed pursuant to the terms of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 2001, save that the parties hereto shall be entitled to make any variation or rescission of its terms, in accordance with its terms, without the consent of any P&O Princess Shareholder or of any third party. 3. Agreement and Undertaking Carnival agrees and irrevocably undertakes, as a continuing obligation, to P&O Princess, that in the event that an Exchange Notice is issued pursuant to the P&O Princess Articles of Association, Carnival shall, on the date specified in the Exchange Notice, issue such number of fully paid and non-assessable shares of Carnival Common Stock to each P&O Princess Shareholder as shall be required to effect the Mandatory Exchange in accordance with the provisions of the P&O Princess Articles of Association. Carnival further agrees with P&O Princess that there shall be no entitlement to receive fractional interests in Carnival Common Stock issued by it and that, in lieu of such fractional interests, P&O Princess Shareholders shall receive from Carnival an amount in cash in accordance with the P&O Princess Articles of Association. 4. Termination 4.1 This Deed shall automatically terminate if, and with effect from the same time as: (A) the Equalization and Governance Agreement terminates or otherwise ceases to have effect; (B) completion of the Mandatory Exchange; (C) a resolution is passed or an order is made for the liquidation of the whole or substantially the whole of P&O Princess; or (D) the Mandatory Exchange provisions set out in the P&O Princess Articles of Association are properly deleted from the P&O Princess Articles of Association. 5. Notices 5.1 Any notice to or demand upon Carnival under this Deed shall be in writing addressed to it at its principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being (marked for the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, with a copy sent to the General Counsel and Secretary) and shall be effective when delivered to that principal place of business. 5.2 Any notice to or demand upon P&O Princess under this Deed shall be in writing addressed to it at its principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being (marked for the attention of the Chief Financial Officer, with a copy sent to the General Counsel and Secretary) and shall be effective when delivered to that principal place of business. 3
5.3 The original counterparts of this Deed and of any related supplemental deed shall be kept at, respectively, the principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being of Carnival and the principal place of business in the U.S.A. for the time being of P&O Princess and shall be available for inspection there on reasonable notice during the normal business hours of that office. 6. General 6.1 Prohibition and enforceability Any provision of, or the application of any provision of, this Deed which is void, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction does not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction or of the remaining provisions in that or any other jurisdiction. 6.2 Further assurances Carnival and P&O Princess shall take all steps, execute all documents and do everything reasonably required to give effect to its obligations contemplated by this Deed. 6.3 No assignment Neither Carnival nor P&O Princess may assign any of their obligations under this Deed, in whole or in part. 6.4 Counterparts This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts. All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one and the same instrument. 7. Law And Jurisdiction 7.1 This Deed shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Isle of Man. 7.2 Any legal action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Deed shall be brought exclusively in the courts of England. 7.3 Carnival and P&O Princess irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts and waive any objection to proceedings in any such court on the ground of venue or on the ground that the proceedings have been brought in an inconvenient forum. 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF Executed as a deed by ) CARNIVAL CORPORATION ) acting by [.] [and [.]] [who, in ) accordance with the laws of the ) _______________________ territory in ) _______________________ which Carnival Corporation ) (Authorised is incorporated, is/are] acting under ) signatory(ies)) the authority of Carnival Corporation EXECUTED as a DEED by ) P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC ) acting by two of its directors/a director and ) secretary ) Director Director/Secretary 5
AGREED FORM DATED 2003 ----------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------- CARNIVAL CORPORATION DEED -----------------------------------------------------

Exhibit 99.12 DIRECTORS OF CARNIVAL AND P&O PRINCESS Name Function - ---- -------- Micky Arison Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert Dickinson Executive Director Howard S. Frank Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer Pier Luigi Foschi Executive Director A. Kirk Lanterman Executive Director Peter G. Ratcliffe Executive Director Ambassador Richard G. Capen Jr. Non-Executive Director Arnold W. Donald Non-Executive Director Baroness Hogg Non-Executive Director Modesto A. Maidique Non-Executive Director Sir John Parker Non-Executive Director Stuart Subotnick Non-Executive Director Uzi Zucker Non-Executive Director


