FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20070920092227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) September 20, 2007
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
Section 2  Financial Information
.
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On September 20, 2007 Carnival Corporation & plc issued a press release entitled "Carnival Corporation & plc Reports Record Third Quarter Earnings." A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
          
SIGNATURES
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
          MIAMI (September 20, 2007)  Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) reported record net income for its third quarter ended August 31, 2007 of $1.38 billion, or $1.67 diluted EPS, compared to net income for the third quarter of 2006 of $1.23 billion, or $1.49 diluted EPS. Revenues for the third quarter 2007 increased to $4.32 billion from $3.91 billion in the third quarter of 2006.
          Net income for the nine months ended August 31, 2007 was also a record at $2.05 billion, or $2.51 diluted EPS, on revenues of $9.91 billion, compared to net income of $1.86 billion, or $2.25 diluted EPS, on revenues of $9.03 billion for the same period in 2006.
        
  Carnival Corporation & plc Chairman and CEO Micky Arison said that third quarter results came in better than expected primarily due to stronger pricing on bookings taken closer to departure.
          Our earnings were up 12 percent driven largely by the successful introduction of new ships for both our North American and European brands in time for our peak summer season. Our North American brands enjoyed another strong European season, a solid Alaska season, and a modest year over year improvement in revenue yields in the Caribbean. The recovery in the Caribbean has continued as the demand for Caribbean cruises remains strong, Arison said. The companys European brands benefited from strong improvements in operating results with increased revenue yields on a dollar basis due to stronger Euro and Sterling currencies. Local currency revenue yields were down against very strong comparisons with the previous year.
        
Repurchase Program
 
         The company has repurchased 4.5 million shares of Carnival stock for approximately $195 million since the beginning of the third quarter. The total amount repurchased to date under the June 2006 $1 billion authorization is $422 million. Yesterday, the board of directors increased the remaining $578 million repurchase authorization to $1 billion. Repurchases will take place in the open market or privately negotiated transactions in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. This authorization covers both Carnival Corporation stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange and Carnival plc ordinary shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
          
Outlook
          On a cumulative basis, occupancy for advance bookings taken for the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first half of 2008 are ahead of last year with pricing on a current dollar basis up slightly compared to last year.
          For the balance of 2007 and into the first half of next year, bookings are well ahead of last year, Arison said. He cited the companys pricing strategy of early discounts on Caribbean cruises stimulating strong booking volumes early in the year - a strategy now driving revenue yield improvement into the fourth quarter. Weve already seen Caribbean pricing improvement in the back half of this year, and we are optimistic that it will continue into the first half of 2008, he added.
          Net revenue yields for our North American brands should see continued improvement in the fourth quarter based on the positive trends in the Caribbean business. The European brands are also expected to perform well continuing to benefit from the strong Euro and Sterling. For the fourth quarter of 2007, the company expects earnings to be in the range of $0.42 to $0.44 per share, down from $0.51 per share in 2006 primarily as a result of significantly higher fuel prices and timing of dry-dock expenses.
          For the 2007 full year, compared to its prior June 2007 guidance, the company anticipates a slight improvement in its net revenue yield expectations. Excluding fuel, cost guidance for the full year remains unchanged on a constant dollar basis. Despite increases in fuel prices the company expects full year 2007 earnings per share to be in the
range of $2.92 to $2.94, toward the higher end of the companys previous guidance range of $2.85 to $2.95.
          On September 14, Carnival commenced the operations of its 75 percent owned joint venture with Orizonia Corporation for a multi-ship Spanish cruise line, Iberocruceros. The new brand is operating the 1,244-passenger and the 834-passenger In June 2008, Carnival Cruise Lines 1,486-passenger will join the Iberocruceros fleet. The results of Iberocruceros will be consolidated into the companys financial statements beginning with the 2007 fourth quarter and have been incorporated into the companys fourth quarter and full year guidance.
Grand Mistral
Grand Voyager.
Celebration
          At the end of the fourth quarter Cunard Lines 90,000-ton , is expected to join her sisters, and which will mark the first time ever that Cunard has had three Queens in service.
Queen Victoria
Queen Elizabeth 2
Queen Mary 2
Selected Key Forecast Metrics:
          The company has scheduled a conference call with analysts at 10:00 a.m. EDT (15.00 London time) today to discuss its 2007 third quarter earnings. This call can be listened to live, and additional information can be obtained, via Carnival Corporation & plcs Web site at and .
www.carnivalcorp.com
www.carnivalplc.com
          Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise vacation group in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe and Australia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, Seabourn Cruise Line, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Iberocruceros, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia.
          Together, these brands operate 84 ships totaling 156,000 lower berths with 17 new ships scheduled to enter service between December 2007 and June 2011. Carnival
Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, the leading tour companies in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
Cautionary note concerning factors that may affect future results
Some of the statements contained in this earnings release are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like will, may, believe, expect, anticipate, forecast, future, intend, plan, and estimate and similar expressions. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plcs actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this earnings release. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact the forecasting of earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, outlook or business prospects. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plcs potential vacationers discretionary income and this groups confidence in the U.S. and other economies and, consequently reduce Carnival Corporation & plcs cruise brands net revenue yields; the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist attacks and threats thereof, availability of air service and other world events, and their impact on the demand for cruises; conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, including competition from other cruise ship operators and providers of other vacation alternatives and increases in capacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation alternatives; accidents, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents (including machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof) which could cause the alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises, and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases, affecting the health, safety, security and/or vacation satisfaction of passengers; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular, could impact the demand for Carnival Corporation & plcs cruises; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plcs guests; changing consumer preferences, which may, among other things, adversely impact the demand for cruises; changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate, including the implementation of U.S. regulations requiring U.S. citizens to obtain passports for sea travel to or from additional foreign destinations; the impact of changes in operating and financing costs, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and fuel, food, insurance, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs, including purchasing ships for our North American cruise brands from European shipyards on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plcs expectations; Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to implement its brand strategies and to continue to operate and expand its business internationally; Carnival Corporation & plcs future operating cash flow may not be sufficient to fund future obligations and Carnival Corporation & plc may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plcs travel agent distribution system and air service providers; the impact of Carnival Corporation & plc self-insuring against various risks and its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other impairments to Carnival Corporation & plcs information technology networks; lack of continued availability of attractive port destinations; risks associated with the DLC structure, including the uncertainty of its tax status; the impact of pending or threatened litigation; and Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaims any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this release, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:



