FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20080619093231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
          Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) June 19, 2008
Section 2  Financial Information
.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On June 19, 2008 Carnival Corporation & plc issued a press release entitled "Carnival Corporation & plc Reports Second Quarter Earnings." A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          (d) Exhibits
          
Exhibit 99.1 Press release, dated June 19, 2008 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
SIGNATURES
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
          MIAMI (June 19, 2008)  Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) reported net income of $390 million, or $0.49 diluted EPS, on revenues of $3.4 billion for its second quarter ended May 31, 2008. Net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $390 million, or $0.48 diluted EPS, on revenues of $2.9 billion.
          Carnival Corporation & plc Chairman and CEO Micky Arison said that second quarter results were better than the guidance provided in March 2008 due primarily to stronger than expected revenue yields and lower than expected cruise costs.
          Our North American and European brands continue to perform well in the current difficult economic environment and we were pleased with our second quarter results. We enjoyed strong revenue growth supported by solid cost controls, however higher fuel prices cost the company $158 million, or $0.19 per share, during the quarter, Arison said.
Key metrics for the second quarter of 2008 compared to the prior year were as follows:
          During the second quarter, the company successfully introduced AIDA Cruises 2,050-passenger AIDAbella in Germany and P&O Cruises 3,076-passenger Ventura in the UK, as part of its planned strategy of expansion in the European marketplace.
Outlook
          Occupancy levels for advance bookings for the next twelve months are in line with the prior year, with ticket prices for these bookings at higher levels.
          Despite the current difficult economic environment, our booking trends continue to be solid. Consumers continue to plan leisure travel but appear more cost conscious placing greater emphasis on finding more economical options. A cruise vacation is an attractive alternative for those seeking the most value for their vacation dollar, said Arison. However, the impact of skyrocketing fuel prices on our operating results has overshadowed the revenue yield improvement we have experienced.
          Primarily as a result of changes in currency exchange rates, the company now forecasts a 4.5 to 5.5 percent improvement in net revenue yields for the full year 2008 compared to 2007, versus March 2008 guidance of an increase of 5.5 to 6.5 percent. On a constant dollar basis, the company continues to expect net revenue yields to increase 2.0 to 3.0 percent, although lower in the range than the previous guidance due primarily to slightly lower expectations for both cruise ticket and onboard revenues for the remainder of 2008.
          The company continues to expect net cruise costs excluding fuel for the full year 2008 to be down slightly on a constant dollar basis, although it expects a modest increase in cruise costs for the remainder of the year compared to the previous guidance. However, based on current spot prices for fuel, forecasted fuel costs have increased $224 million, or $0.27 per share, since the previous March guidance. For the full year 2008 fuel expense is now forecast to increase by $752 million compared to 2007, which reduces full year 2008 earnings by $0.92 per share. Taking all the above factors into consideration, the company now forecasts full year 2008 earnings per share to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.80 compared to its previous guidance of $3.00 to $3.20.
Third Quarter 2008
          For the third quarter of 2008, net revenue yields are expected to increase approximately 4.0 percent (approximately 1.0 percent on a constant dollar basis). Net cruise costs excluding fuel for the third quarter 2008 are expected to be up modestly on a constant dollar basis. Based on current spot prices for fuel, third quarter 2008 fuel expense is expected to increase by $241 million compared to 2007, which reduces earnings by $0.30 per share. As a result, the company expects earnings for the third quarter of 2008 to be in the range of $1.56 to $1.58 per share, down from $1.67 per share in 2007.
          During the third quarter, the company will add two new ships to its fleet. Holland America Lines 2,104-passenger Eurodam was successfully delivered June 16, 2008, and will be named by Her Royal Majesty Queen Beatrix of Holland on July 1, 2008; and Carnival Cruise Lines 3,006-passenger Carnival Splendor will be delivered on June 30, 2008. Both of these vessels will operate European itineraries this summer, which is proving to be a popular way for North American guests to visit Europe while paying in U.S. dollars thus minimizing the impact of unfavorable currency exchange.
Selected Key Forecast Metrics
          The company has scheduled a conference call with analysts at 10:00 a.m. EDT (3:00 p.m. BST) today to discuss its 2008 second quarter earnings. This call can be listened to live, and additional information can be obtained, via Carnival Corporation & plcs Web site at and .
www.carnivalcorp.com
www.carnivalplc.com
          Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise vacation group in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe and Australia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, The Yachts of Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Ibero Cruises, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia.
          Together, these brands operate 87 ships totaling more than 164,000 lower berths with 19 new ships scheduled to be delivered between June 2008 and June 2012. Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, the leading tour companies in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
Cautionary note concerning factors that may affect future results
Some of the statements contained in this earnings release are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like will, may, believe, expect, anticipate, forecast, future, intend, plan, and estimate and similar expressions. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plcs actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this earnings release. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact the forecasting of Carnival Corporation and plcs earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, outlook or business prospects. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions and perceptions of these conditions that may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plcs potential vacationers discretionary income and this groups confidence in the U.S. and other economies and, consequently reduce Carnival Corporation & plcs cruise brands net revenue yields; the international political climate, armed conflicts and terrorist attacks and threats thereof, availability and pricing of air services and other world events, and their impact on the demand for Carnival Corporation & plc cruises; conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, including competition from other cruise ship operators and providers of other vacation alternatives and over capacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation alternatives; accidents, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents (including machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof) which could cause the alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises, and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases, all of which could affect the health, safety, security and/or vacation satisfaction of Carnival Corporation & plc guests; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular, could impact the demand for Carnival Corporation & plcs cruises; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plcs guests; changing consumer preferences, which may, among other things, adversely impact the demand for cruises; the impact of changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate; the impact of increased global fuel demand, a weakening U.S. dollar, fuel supply disruptions and/or other events on Carnival Corporation & plc ships fuel and other expenses; the impact on Carnival Corporation & plc future fuel expenses of implementing proposed International Maritime Organization regulations which, if approved, would require the use of higher priced low sulfur fuels in certain cruising areas, which could adversely impact the cruise industry; the impact of changes in operating and financing costs, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and food, insurance, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs, including purchasing ships for our North American cruise brands from European shipyards on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plcs expectations; Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to implement its brand strategies and to continue to operate and expand its business internationally; Carnival Corporation & plcs future operating cash flow may not be sufficient to fund future obligations and Carnival Corporation & plc may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plcs travel agent distribution system and air service providers; the impact of Carnival Corporation & plc self-insuring against various risks and its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other impairments to Carnival Corporation & plcs information technology networks; lack of continued availability of attractive port destinations; risks associated with the DLC structure, including the uncertainty of its tax status; and Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this release, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
Gross and net cruise costs per ALBD were computed by dividing the gross or net cruise costs, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:


