FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20080320093607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) March 20, 2008
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
Section 2  Financial Information
.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On March 20, 2008 Carnival Corporation & plc issued a press release entitled Carnival Corporation & plc Reports First Quarter Earnings. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          (d) Exhibits
          Exhibit 99.1 Press release, dated March 20, 2008 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
SIGNATURES
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
          MIAMI (March 20, 2008)  Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) reported net income of $236 million, or $0.30 diluted EPS, on revenues of $3.2 billion for its first quarter ended February 29, 2008. Net income for the first quarter of 2007 was $283 million, or $0.35 diluted EPS, on revenues of $2.7 billion.
          Carnival Corporation & plc Chairman and CEO Micky Arison said that first quarter results were better than the companys January 2008 earnings per share guidance due primarily to lower than expected cruise costs.
          With the continued recovery of Caribbean business for our North American brands and our European brands performing well, bolstered by the strengthening euro and sterling, the company enjoyed strong revenue growth in the first quarter. However, this strong performance was more than offset by continually rising fuel prices, which cost the company $156 million, or $0.19 per share, during the quarter, Arison said.
Key metrics for the first quarter of 2008 were as follows:
2008 Outlook
          On a cumulative basis, advance bookings for the remainder of 2008 are ahead of last year in terms of both occupancy and pricing. Since we entered the year with less
inventory remaining for sale than last year, bookings taken since the start of the wave season have been less than prior year levels. However, pricing for those bookings was higher than last year.
          Consistent with their historical performance, our cruise brands continued to demonstrate resiliency despite a difficult economic environment, Arison noted. This especially holds true in the Caribbean where there continues to be a strong rebound in pricing from last year. The favorable value proposition and high guest satisfaction levels versus land-based vacations, coupled with reduced supply  as less inventory remains for sale than at this time in 2007  continues to work in our favor during this challenging economic climate, he added.
          As a result of the strengthening euro and sterling exchange rates, the company now expects a 5.5 to 6.5 percent improvement in net revenue yields for the full year 2008 compared to 2007, versus December guidance of an increase of 4.5 to 5.5 percent. On a constant dollar basis, net revenue yields are expected to increase 2.0 to 3.0 percent, versus December guidance of a 3.0 to 4.0 percent increase, primarily due to reduced expectations for onboard spending.
          The company expects net cruise costs excluding fuel for the full year 2008 to be down slightly on a constant dollar basis. However, based on the forward curve higher fuel prices for full year 2008 are now forecasted to increase fuel expense by $532 million compared to 2007, which reduces full year earnings by $0.65 per share. Since the previous guidance, forecasted fuel costs have increased $127 million or $0.15 per share. Primarily as a result of the significantly higher fuel cost expectation, the company now forecasts full year 2008 earnings per share to be in the range of $3.00 to $3.20 compared to its previous guidance of $3.10 to $3.30.
          Although our strong revenue growth is expected to be offset by a forecasted 45 percent increase in fuel prices for the year, we still expect higher earnings per share than in 2007. This speaks volumes about our ability to weather difficult economic times, as well as, these extraordinary increases in fuel costs, Arison said.
Second Quarter 2008
          For the second quarter of 2008, net revenue yields are expected to increase 6.5 to 7.5 percent (2.5 to 3.5 percent on a constant dollar basis) driven primarily by the continued improvement in Caribbean pricing. Net cruise costs excluding fuel for the second quarter 2008 are expected to be flat on a constant dollar basis. Based on the forward curve, higher fuel prices for the second quarter 2008 are expected to increase
fuel expense by $161 million compared to 2007 which will have the effect of reducing earnings by $0.20 per share. As a result, the company expects earnings for the second quarter of 2008 to be in the range of $0.42 to $0.44 per share, down from $0.48 per share in 2007.
          During the 2008 second quarter the company will take delivery of two new ships P&O Cruises 3,076-passenger Ventura, and AIDA Cruises 2,050-passenger AIDAbella.
Selected Key Forecast Metrics
          The company has scheduled a conference call with analysts at 10:00 a.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. GMT) today to discuss its 2008 first quarter earnings. This call can be listened to live, and additional information can be obtained, via Carnival Corporation & plcs Web site at and .
www.carnivalcorp.com
www.carnivalplc.com
          Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise vacation group in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe and Australia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, The Yachts of Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Ibero Cruises, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia.
          Together, these brands operate 84 ships totaling more than 157,000 lower berths with 22 new ships scheduled to enter service between April 2008 and June 2012. Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, the leading tour companies in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
Cautionary note concerning factors that may affect future results
Some of the statements contained in this earnings release are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like will, may, believe, expect, anticipate, forecast, future, intend, plan, and estimate and similar expressions. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plcs actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this earnings release. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact the forecasting of Carnival Corporation and plcs earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, outlook or business prospects. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions and perceptions of these conditions that may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plcs potential vacationers discretionary income and this groups confidence in the U.S. and other economies and, consequently reduce Carnival Corporation & plcs cruise brands net revenue yields; the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist attacks and threats thereof, availability and pricing of air service and other world events, and their impact on the demand for cruises; conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, including competition from other cruise ship operators and providers of other vacation alternatives and over capacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation alternatives; accidents, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents (including machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof) which could cause the alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises, and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases, affecting the health, safety, security and/or vacation satisfaction of guests; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular, could impact the demand for Carnival Corporation & plcs cruises; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plcs guests; changing consumer preferences, which may, among other things, adversely impact the demand for cruises; the impact of changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate, including the implementation of U.S. regulations requiring U.S. citizens to obtain passports for sea travel to or from additional foreign destinations; the impact of the results of the review of our fuel supplement program by the Attorney General of Florida; the impact of increased global fuel demand, a weakening U.S. dollar, fuel supply disruptions and/or other events on Carnival Corporation & plc ships fuel expenses; the impact of changes in operating and financing costs, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and food, insurance, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs, including purchasing ships for our North American cruise brands from European shipyards on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plcs expectations; Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to implement its brand strategies and to continue to operate and expand its business internationally; Carnival Corporation & plcs future operating cash flow may not be sufficient to fund future obligations and Carnival Corporation & plc may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plcs travel agent distribution system and air service providers; the impact of Carnival Corporation & plc self-insuring against various risks and its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other impairments to Carnival Corporation & plcs information technology networks; lack of continued availability of attractive port destinations; risks associated with the DLC structure, including the uncertainty of its tax status; the impact of pending or threatened litigation; and Carnival Corporation & plcs ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this release, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
Gross and net cruise costs per ALBD were computed by dividing the gross or net cruise costs, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:



