FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20090420161600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the adoption of the Articles of Association of Carnival plc in April 2003 at the time of the establishment of the dual listed company structure, there have been a number of developments in company law in the United Kingdom, including most significantly the enactment of the Companies Act 2006. This legislation has given rise to a number of changes to law and practice affecting public listed companies in the United Kingdom.
In order to take account of these changes, at the joint annual meetings of shareholders of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc held on April 15, 2009, our shareholders adopted amended and restated Articles of Association of Carnival plc, which are consistent with current law and practice and with the changes brought about by the Companies Act 2006. The amendments to the Articles of Association of Carnival plc were described in our joint annual proxy statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 2, 2009.
As a result of the amendments to the Articles of Association of Carnival plc and in response to corporate governance developments in the United Kingdom and United States, on April 14, 2009, our Board of Directors adopted the Third Amended and Restated By-Laws of Carnival Corporation, subject to shareholder approval of the amended and restated Articles of Association of Carnival plc. Simultaneous with the shareholder approval of the amendments to the Carnival plc Articles of Association on April 15, 2009, the Third Amended and Restated By-Laws became effective.The Third Amended and Restated By-Laws:
 
 
 
In addition, on April 15, 2009, the Carnival plc Memorandum of Association was amended to reflect the increase in the authorized share capital of Carnival plc, which was approved by shareholders at the joint annual meetings of shareholders of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc held on April 15, 2009.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report on Form 8-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1.1 . The Corporation may have and maintain an office or offices at such places within or without the Republic of Panama as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation requires.
Offices
Section 2.1 . Every meeting of the Shareholders of the Corporation shall be held at the office of the Corporation or at such place or places within or outside the Republic of Panama as shall be specified or fixed in the notice of such meeting or in the waiver of notice thereof.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.2 .
Annual Meetings; Shareholder Proposals
(a) The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders shall be held annually at such hour and on such business day in March or April as may be determined by the Board of Directors and designated in the notice of meeting. At such Annual Meeting, the Shareholders then entitled to vote shall elect directors and shall transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
(b) At an Annual Meeting of the Shareholders, only business (other than business relating to the nomination or election of directors which is governed by Section 3.22) that has been properly brought before the Shareholder meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.2 shall be conducted. To be properly brought before a meeting of Shareholders, such business must be brought before the meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof or (ii) by a Shareholder or Shareholders who (a) were Shareholders of record of the Corporation when the notice required by this Section 2.2 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and at the time of the meeting, (b) have a right to vote on the business at the Annual Meeting to which the request relates, (c) represent (1) in the aggregate, holders of at least five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Corporation who have a right to vote on the business at the Annual Meeting to which the request relates, or (2) 100 Shareholders who have a right to vote on the business at the Annual Meeting to which the request relates; and (d) comply with the notice and other provisions of this Section 2.2. Section 2.2(b)(ii) is the exclusive means by which Shareholders may bring business before a meeting of Shareholders, except (x) with respect to
nominations or elections of directors which is governed by Section 3.22 and (y) with respect to proposals where the Shareholder proposing such business has notified the Corporation of such Shareholder's intent to present the proposals at an Annual Meeting in compliance with Section 14 (or any successor section) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (including any successor statute) (the "") and such proposals have been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such Annual Meeting, in which case the notice requirements of this Section 2.2 shall be deemed satisfied with respect to such proposals. Any business brought before a meeting in accordance with Section 2.2(b)(ii) is referred to as "".
Exchange Act
Shareholder Business
(c) At any Annual Meeting of Shareholders, all proposals of Shareholder Business must be made by timely written notice given by or on behalf of a Shareholder of record of the Corporation (the "") and must otherwise be a proper matter for Shareholder action. To be timely, the Notice of Business must be delivered personally or mailed to, and received at the office of the Corporation, addressed to the Secretary of the Corporation, by no later than six weeks prior to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to which the request relates, or if, later, the time at which notice of such meeting was made by mail or Public Disclosure.
Notice of Business
(d) The Notice of Business must set forth:
(i) the name and record address of each Shareholder proposing Shareholder Business (the ""), as they appear on the Corporation's books;
Proponent
(ii) the name and address of any Shareholder Associated Person;
(iii) as to each Proponent and any Shareholder Associated Person, (a) the class or series and number of shares of stock directly or indirectly held of record and beneficially by the Proponent or Shareholder Associated Person, (b) the date such shares of stock were acquired, (c) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to such business between or among the Proponent, any Shareholder Associated Person or any others (including their names) acting in concert with any of the foregoing, and a representation that the Proponent will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed, (d) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the Proponent's notice by, or on behalf of, the Proponent or any Shareholder Associated Person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of the Proponent or any Shareholder Associated Person with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation (a "") and a representation that the Proponent will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed, and (e) a description in reasonable detail of any proxy (including revocable proxies), contract, arrangement, understanding or other relationship pursuant to which
Derivative
 
the Proponent or Shareholder Associated Person has a right to vote any shares of stock of the Corporation. The information specified in Section 2.2(d)(i) to (iii) is referred to herein as "";
Shareholder Information
(iv) a representation that the Proponents meet the requirements set forth in Section 2.2(b)(ii) and intend to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such Shareholder Business;
(v) a brief description of the Shareholder Business desired to be brought before the Annual Meeting, the text of the proposal (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, if such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws, the language of the proposed amendment) and the reasons for conducting such Shareholder Business at the meeting;
(vi) any material interest of the Proponent and any Shareholder Associated Person in such Shareholder Business; and
(vii) all other information that would be required to be filed with the SEC if the Proponents or Shareholder Associated Persons were participants in a solicitation subject to Section 14 (or any successor section) of the Exchange Act.
(e) The person presiding over the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting, that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.2, and, if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
(f) If the Proponent (or a qualified representative of the Proponent) does not appear at the meeting of Shareholders to present the Shareholder Business such business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.2, to be considered a qualified representative of the Shareholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such Shareholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such Shareholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such Shareholder to act for such Shareholder as proxy at the meeting of Shareholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of Shareholders.
(g) "" of any date or other information means disclosure thereof by a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Services, Associated Press or comparable U.S. national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) (or any successor sections) of the Exchange Act.
Public Disclosure
(h) "" means with respect to any Shareholder, (i) any other beneficial owner of stock of the Corporation that are owned by such Shareholder, (ii) any person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Shareholder or such beneficial
Shareholder Associated Person
 
owner and (iii) any associate (within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 (or any successor rule) under the Exchange Act for purposes of these By-laws) of such Shareholder or beneficial owner.
(i) "" (including the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Control
(j) Nothing in this Section 2.2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to any applicable provision of the Articles of Incorporation.
Section 2.3 . If the Annual Meeting for the election of directors and the transaction of other business is not held within the months specified in Section 2.2, the Board shall call a meeting of Shareholders for the election of directors and the transaction of other business as soon thereafter as convenient.
Deferred Meeting for Election of Directors, Etc
Section 2.4 . A Special Meeting of Shareholders (other than a special meeting for the election of directors), unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called at any time by the Board or by the President or by the Secretary. At any Special Meeting of Shareholders only such business may be transacted as is related to the purpose or purposes of such meeting set forth in the notice thereof or in any waiver of notice thereof.
Special Meetings
Section 2.5 . Except as provided in Section 6.2, written notice of all meetings of Shareholders stating the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, including whether the resolution relates to a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action, the name of the person or persons at whose direction the notice is being given, and the date, time and place where it is to be held, shall be given, personally or by mail, at least ten (10) but not more than sixty (60) days before such meeting, to each Shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting and to each member of the Board of Directors. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, with postage prepaid directed to the Shareholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent of the Corporation that the notice required by this Section 2.5 has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be evidence of the facts stated therein. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, and at the adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. If, however, the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each Shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Notice of Meetings
prima facie
Section 2.6 . If the Corporation proposes to undertake a Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action, the Corporation shall immediately give notice to P&O Princess of the nature of the Joint Electorate Action or the Class Rights Action it proposes to take. Unless such action is proposed to be taken at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall convene a
Notice with Respect to Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action
 
Special Meeting for the purpose of considering a resolution to approve the Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action. Such meeting shall be held as close in time as practicable with the Parallel Shareholder Meeting convened by P&O Princess for purposes of considering such Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action.
(a) The Corporation shall cooperate fully with P&O Princess in preparing resolutions, explanatory memoranda or any other information or material required in connection with the proposed Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action.
Section 2.7 .
Quorum, Manner of Acting and Adjournment
(a) The presence in person or by proxy at any meeting of Shareholders holding at least one-third of the total votes entitled to be cast shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting except as otherwise required by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting of Shareholders, it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any Shareholders. The holders of a majority of the shares of stock present in person or represented by proxy at any meeting of Shareholders, including an adjourned meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. The Secretary shall give notice to P&O Princess as soon as possible of an adjournment and of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting.
(b) When a quorum for the transaction of business is present at any meeting, a Majority Resolution shall decide such question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or as provided in these By-Laws, a Supermajority Resolution is required, in which case such express provision shall govern the decision of such question. Shareholders present in person or by proxy at a duly convened meeting can continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding withdrawal of Shareholders so as to leave fewer than a quorum present.
(c) No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any meeting of Shareholders may be taken without a meeting, and the power of the Shareholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
Section 2.8 .
Quorum for Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions
(a) For purposes of determining whether a quorum exists at any meeting of Shareholders where a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action is to be considered:
(i) if the meeting of Shareholders convenes before the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall, at the commencement of the meeting, have no votes and therefore shall not be counted for purposes of determining the total number of shares entitled to vote at such meeting or whether a quorum exists at such meeting, although the Carnival Special Voting Share itself must be present, either in person (through a representative of DLC SVC) or by proxy;
 
(ii) if the meeting of the Shareholders convenes at substantially the same time as or after the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess with respect to one or more Joint Electorate Actions and no Class Rights Actions, the Carnival Special Voting Share will have the maximum number of votes attached to it as were cast on any such Joint Electorate Action multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number, either for, against or abstained, at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, and such maximum number of votes (including abstentions) multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number shall constitute shares entitled to vote and present for purposes of determining whether a quorum exists at such meeting; and
(iii) if the meeting of Shareholders convenes at substantially the same time as or after the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess with respect to one or more Class Rights Actions, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall, at the commencement of the meeting, have no votes (for purposes of determining whether a quorum exists, but without prejudice to any voting rights the Carnival Special Voting Share may have under the Articles of Incorporation) and therefore shall not be counted for purposes of determining the total number of shares entitled to vote at such meeting or whether a quorum exists at such meeting, although the Carnival Special Voting Share itself must be present, either in person (through a representative of DLC SVC) or by proxy.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order for a quorum to be validly constituted with respect to meetings of Shareholders convened to consider a Joint Electorate Action or Class Rights Action, DLC SVC must be present at such meeting.
Section 2.9 . At every meeting of Shareholders, the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or in the case of vacancy in the office or absence of the Chairman of the Board, one of the following persons present in the order stated: the vice chairman of the Board, if there be one or in their order of rank or seniority if there be more than one, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the vice presidents in their order of rank or seniority, a chairman designated by those members of the Board of Directors present at the meeting or a chairman chosen by Shareholders shall act as chairman, and the Secretary, or in his absence, an assistant secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary and assistant secretaries, a person appointed by the Chairman, shall act as secretary.
Organization
Section 2.10 . Any resolution to be considered at a meeting of Shareholders in relation to which the DLC SVC is or may be entitled to vote shall be decided by ballot. The ballot shall be kept open for such time as to allow the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess to be held and for the votes attaching to the Carnival Special Voting Share to be calculated and cast on such ballot, although such ballot may be closed earlier in respect of shares of other classes. The chairman of the meeting shall direct the procedures for voting by ballot.
Voting by Ballot
Section 2.11 . Each Shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of Shareholders may authorize any person to act for him by proxy. A proxy deposited by DLC SVC will be valid if it is received by or delivered to the chairman of the meeting before the close of the ballot to which it relates. To be valid, a proxy must comply in form and substance with all applicable provisions of Panamanian law.
Voting by Proxy
 
Section 2.12 . Cumulative voting for directors shall not be permitted.
Cumulative Voting
Section 2.13 . The Secretary shall prepare and make, or cause to be prepared and made, at least ten days before every meeting of Shareholders, a complete list of Shareholders, entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each Shareholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each Shareholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any Shareholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any Shareholder who is present.
List of Shareholders
Section 2.14 .
Inspectors of Election
(a) In advance of any meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors may appoint inspectors of election, who need not be Shareholders, to act at such meeting or any adjournment thereof. If inspectors of election are not so appointed, the person presiding at any such meeting may, and on the request of any Shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting and before voting begins shall, appoint inspectors of election. In case any absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, the persons designated pursuant to Section 2.9 shall act as chairman and secretary of the meeting.
(b) On request of the person presiding at the meeting or any Shareholder entitled to vote thereat, the inspectors shall make a report in writing of any challenge or question or matter determined by them, and execute a sworn certificate of any fact found by them. Any such report or certificate shall be evidence of the facts stated and on the vote as certified by him or them.
prima facie
Section 2.15 .
Actions for Shareholder Approval
(a) All actions to be approved by the holders of Carnival Common Stock shall be Joint Electorate Actions, Class Rights Actions or Procedural Resolutions.
(b) No resolution with respect to a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action shall be approved unless the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess is validly held and a vote of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares is held on an Equivalent Resolution.
Section 2.16 . All actions put to the holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, except for Class Rights Actions and Procedural Resolutions, shall constitute Joint Electorate Actions. For the avoidance of doubt, the following actions, if put to the holders of Carnival Common Stock or P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, shall constitute Joint Electorate Actions:
Joint Electorate Actions
(a) the appointment, removal or re-election of any director of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or both of them;
 
(b) to the extent such receipt or adoption is required by Applicable Regulations, the receipt or adoption of the Corporation's or P&O Princess' financial statements, or both of them, or accounts prepared on a combined basis, other than any accounts in respect of the period(s) ended prior to the date of the Equalization Agreement;
(c) a change of name of either the Corporation, P&O Princess, or both of them; and
(d) the appointment or removal of the auditors of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or both of them.
Section 2.17 .
Procedure for Approval of Joint Electorate Actions
(a) If the Corporation proposes to take any Joint Electorate Action, such action shall require approval by Majority Resolution (or if Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution, by the vote required thereby) of the holders of Carnival Common Stock, holders of the Corporation's Other Voting Shares and the DLC SVC, voting together as a single class by ballot.
(b) No resolution will be approved with respect to a Joint Electorate Action unless at least one-third of the total votes entitled to be cast by (i) the holders of Carnival Common Stock, and (ii) the DLC SVC (assuming for purposes of this calculation only that all holders of issued and outstanding P&O Princess Ordinary Shares voted at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess) are cast on the resolution proposing such Joint Electorate Action.
(c) If P&O Princess proposes to take any Joint Electorate Action, the Corporation shall convene a Special Meeting, unless such action is proposed for an Annual Meeting, as close in time as practicable to such P&O Princess shareholders meeting to consider such action and shall propose a resolution which is an Equivalent Resolution to the proposed P&O Princess resolution with respect to such Joint Electorate Action. Such Equivalent Resolution shall be proposed as a Majority Resolution, unless Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the Joint Electorate Action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution.
(d) In relation to a resolution of the Corporation to approve a Joint Electorate Action at any meeting of Shareholders, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall carry:
(i) such number of votes in favour of the resolution as were cast in favour of the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess;
(ii) such number of votes against the resolution as were cast against the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess; and
 
(iii) such number of abstentions as were recorded as abstentions from the Equivalent Resolution at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess by holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess;
in each case, multiplied by the Carnival Equivalent Number in effect at the time such meeting of the Shareholders is held and in each case rounded up to the nearest whole number, such votes to be cast by the holder of the Carnival Special Voting Share in accordance with the above provisions.
Section 2.18 . The following actions constitute Class Rights Actions:
Class Rights Action
(a) the voluntary Liquidation of the Corporation or P&O Princess for which the approval of shareholders of the Corporation is required by Applicable Regulations or proposed other than a voluntary Liquidation of both P&O Princess and the Corporation at or about the same time with the purpose or effect of no longer continuing the operation of the businesses of the companies as a combined going concern and not as part of a scheme, plan, transaction, or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to reconstitute all or a substantial part of such businesses in one or more successor entities;
(b) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either P&O Princess or the Corporation, other than in a bona fide commercial transaction undertaken for a valid business purpose in which such company receives consideration with a fair market value reasonably equivalent to the assets disposed of and not as a part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose of which is to collapse or unify the DLC Structure;
(c) any adjustment to the Equalization Ratio, otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement;
(d) except where specifically provided for in such agreements, any amendment to the terms of, or termination of, the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed, the Carnival Deed of Guarantee or the P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the voluntary termination of either Deed of Guarantee);
(e) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) any Carnival Entrenched Provision or any P&O Princess Entrenched Provision;
(f) any amendment to, removal or alteration of the effect of (which shall include the ratification of any breach of) Article XII or XIII of the Articles of Incorporation that would cause, or at the time of implementation would be reasonably likely to cause, an Exchange Event described in clause (a) of the definition of such term in the P&O Princess Articles of Association to occur; and
(g) the doing of anything which the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board agree (either in a particular case or generally), in their absolute discretion, should be approved as a Class Rights Action.
 
Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, none of the foregoing actions may be taken by the Corporation unless it has been approved as a Class Rights Action in accordance with Section 2.19.
Section 2.19 .
Procedure for Approval of Class Rights Actions
(a) If the Corporation proposes to take any Class Rights Action, such action shall require approval by a Majority Resolution (or, if Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution, by the vote required thereby) of holders of Carnival Common Stock, holders of Other Voting Shares of the Corporation, and the DLC SVC, voting together as a single class by ballot.
(b) If the proposed Class Rights Action is approved by the requisite vote (as determined in accordance with the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles) of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess entitled to vote thereon at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall have no votes with respect to such proposed Class Rights Action. If the proposed Class Rights Action is not approved by the requisite vote (as determined in accordance with the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles) of the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Other Voting Shares of P&O Princess, entitled to vote thereon at the Parallel Shareholder Meeting of P&O Princess:
(i) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Majority Resolution, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Majority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and Other Voting Shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-Laws (excluding the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Carnival Special Meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution; and
(ii) if the resolution needs to be passed by a Supermajority Resolution, then the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Supermajority Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the outstanding Carnival Common Stock and Other Voting Shares of Carnival that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Articles and By-Laws (excluding the Carnival Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Carnival Special Meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution.
By way of further explanation, expressed as a formula, the Carnival Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast the following number of votes:
 
Accordingly, for a Majority Resolution, 50 percent is the minimum percent needed to defeat the resolution, and the figure in brackets would be 98 percent. In the event that a Supermajority Resolution is required to carry in excess of 75 percent of the votes cast, then 25 percent would be the minimum percent needed to defeat the resolution, and the figure in brackets would be 32 percent.
(c) If P&O Princess proposes to take any Class Rights Action, the Corporation shall convene a Special Meeting, unless such action is proposed for an Annual Meeting, as close in time as practicable to the P&O Princess shareholders meeting at which the P&O Princess resolution in respect of such Class Rights Action is to be proposed, and shall propose an Equivalent Resolution. Such Equivalent Resolution shall be proposed as a Majority Resolution, unless Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the Class Rights Action to be approved by a Supermajority Resolution.
Section 2.20 . The Carnival Special Voting Share shall have no right to vote on any resolution of a procedural or technical nature, which does not adversely affect the shareholders of P&O Princess in any material respect, put to the Shareholders at a meeting (""), nor shall notice of such meeting to Shareholders be required to include reference to these matters. The Chairman of the Board will, in his absolute discretion, determine whether a resolution is a Procedural Resolution. Subject to the foregoing and without limitation, to the extent that such matters require the approval of Shareholders, any of the following shall be Procedural Resolutions:
Procedural Resolutions
Procedural Resolutions
(a) that certain people be allowed to attend or be excluded from attending the meeting;
(b) that discussion be closed and the question put to the vote (provided no amendments have been raised);
(c) that the question under discussion not be put to the vote (where a shareholder feels the original motion should not be put to the meeting at all, if such original motion was brought during the course of that meeting);
(d) to proceed with matters in an order other than that set out in the notice of the meeting;
(e) to adjourn the debate (for example, to a subsequent meeting); and
(f) to adjourn the meeting.
 
Section 3.1 . All powers of the Corporation, except those specifically reserved or granted to Shareholders by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, are hereby granted to and vested in the Board of Directors; all such powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by, the Board of Directors.
Powers
Section 3.2 .
Number and Term of Office
(a) The Board of Directors shall consist of no less than three (3) nor more than twenty-five (25) members. Directors need not be Shareholders. Each director shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.
(b) The Board of Directors shall consist of the identical individuals that constitute the P&O Princess Board.
Section 3.3 .
Eligibility for Election, Effectiveness of Appointment, Reciprocal Appointment
(a) No person shall be a director of the Corporation unless they are also a director of P&O Princess. The appointment of a person as a director of the Corporation shall only take effect at the same time as that person's appointment as a director of P&O Princess takes effect.
(b) If a person is appointed as a director of P&O Princess by the P&O Princess Board in accordance with the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles, the Board of Directors shall also appoint that person as a director of the Corporation.
Section 3.4 . Vacancies on the Board of Directors shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, provided that any such person is appointed to both the Board of Directors and P&O Princess Board at the same time. If only one director remains in office, this director shall have the power to fill all vacancies. If there are no directors, the Secretary may call a meeting at the request of any two shareholders of the Corporation for the purpose of appointing one or more directors.
Vacancies
Section 3.5 . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by written notice to the Corporation. Such director must, concurrently with his or her resignation as director of the Corporation, also resign as director of P&O Princess. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein, but in all events, only concurrently with the effectiveness of the director's resignation from the P&O Princess Board, and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation of Directors
 
Section 3.6 . Subject to the provisions of the Corporation Law, any or all of the directors may be removed with or without cause only by a Majority Resolution.
Removal of Directors
Section 3.7 . A director shall be disqualified from continuing to serve on the Board of Directors if (i) he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws; (ii) he resigns from office by giving written notice to the Corporation or, having been appointed for a fixed term, the term expires or his office as a director is vacated pursuant to Section 3.6; or (iii) he ceases to be a director of P&O Princess.
Disqualification of Directors
Section 3.8 . At every meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or, in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of the Chairman of the Board, one of the following officers present in the order stated: the vice chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one or in their order of rank and seniority if more than one, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the vice presidents in their order of rank and seniority, or a chairman chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall preside, and the Secretary, or, in his absence, an assistant secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary and the assistant secretaries, any person appointed by the chairman of the meeting shall act as secretary.
Organization
Section 3.9 . The Board of Directors may hold its meetings, both regular and special, at such place or places within or outside the Republic of Panama as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint, or as may be designated in the notice calling the meeting.
Place of Meeting
Section 3.10 . On the day when and at the place where the Annual Meeting of Shareholders is held, and as soon as practicable thereafter, the Board of Directors may hold its annual meeting, for the purposes of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of other business. Such annual meeting may be held at any other time and place specified in a notice given as provided in Section 3.11 or in a waiver of notice thereof.
Annual Meetings
Section 3.11 . Unless otherwise required by the Board of Directors, regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. At such meetings, the directors may transact such business as may properly be brought before the meeting. If any day fixed for a regular meeting of the Board shall be a Saturday or Sunday or a legal holiday at the place where such meeting is to be held, then such meeting shall be held at the same hour at the same place on the first business day thereafter which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.12 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary or by two or more directors. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each director by telephone or in writing at least 24 hours (in the case of notice by telephone) or 48 hours (in the case of notice by electronic mail or facsimile) or 10 days (in the case of notice by mail) before the time at which the meeting is to be held. Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purpose or purposes of the meeting. If mailed, each notice shall be deemed given
Special Meetings
 
when deposited, with postage thereon prepaid, in a post office or official depository under the exclusive care and custody of the United States post office department. Such mailing shall be by first class mail.
Section 3.13 . Each director may authorize another director to act for him by proxy at meetings of the Board of Directors, at meetings of committees of the Board of Directors of which he is a member and in giving a written consent in lieu of meetings of the Board of Directors and such committees on behalf of his appointor. A proxy to a director shall be given in an instrument in writing including a facsimile or similar communication method and shall be produced to the first meeting at which it is used or otherwise delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. A proxy shall be conclusive evidence of its validity until notice of revocation of such proxy in writing including a facsimile or similar method of communication has been delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
Voting by Proxy
Section 3.14 .
Quorum, Manner of Acting, Adjournment and Action without Meeting
(a) At all meetings of the Board of Directors the presence, in person or by proxy, of one-third of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business except as may be otherwise specifically provided by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The act of a simple majority of the directors present in person or by proxy at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws. A majority of the directors present at any meeting of the Board, including an adjourned meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the Board need not be given to any director whether or not present at the time of the adjournment. Any business may be transacted at any adjourned meeting that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
(b) Any person who is himself a director and acting as a proxy for any other director shall be entitled to have one vote for each capacity in which he so acts (in addition to any vote he may have as a director).
(c) Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all of the members of the Board of Directors or committee (or other proxies) consent thereto in writing, and the writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Section 3.15 . One or more directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or of a committee of the Board of Directors, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons can hear each other. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
 
Section 3.16 .
Committees of the Board of Directors
(a) The Board of Directors may, by resolutions adopted by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors, designate from among its members one or more other committees (having such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors), each committee to consist of two or more directors. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
(b) Any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall have and may exercise such powers and authorities as shall be provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee; but no committee of the Board of Directors shall have the power or authority in reference to the submission to Shareholders of any action that requires Shareholders' authorization under Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, the filling of vacancies in the Board of Directors or in a committee, the fixing of the compensation of the directors for serving on the Board of Directors or on any committee, the adoption of an agreement of merger or consolidation, the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to Shareholders a dissolution of the Corporation or revocation of a dissolution, the amendment or repeal of the By-Laws or the adoption of new By-Laws, or the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board of Directors other than one which is by its terms so amendable or repealable.
Section 3.17 . Each director, in consideration of his service as such, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum or such fees for attendance at directors' meetings, or both, as the Board may from time to time determine, together with reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by him in connection with the performance of his duties. Each director who shall serve as a member of any committee of directors in consideration of his serving as such shall be entitled to such additional amount per annum or such fees for attendance at committee meetings, or both, as the Board may from time to time determine, together with reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties. Nothing contained in this section shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
Compensation of Directors
Section 3.18 . Subject to any regulations from time to time made by Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall have the management of the affairs, business and property of the Corporation and may do all such acts as are not prohibited by Applicable Regulation, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these By-Laws, and as are not reserved to the Shareholders.
Specific and General Powers of Directors
 
Section 3.19 .
Directors' Power to Give Effect to the DLC Agreements
(a) The directors are authorized to operate and carry into effect the Equalization Agreement, the SVE Special Voting Deed and the Carnival Deed of Guarantee with full power to:
(i) enter into, operate and carry into effect any further or other agreements or arrangements with or in connection with P&O Princess or the holder of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share; and
(ii) do all such things as, in the opinion of the directors, are necessary or desirable for the application, implementation, protection, furtherance or maintenance of the dual listed company relationship with P&O Princess constituted by or arising out of any agreement or arrangement.
(b) Subject to Applicable Regulation, nothing done by any director in good faith pursuant to such authority and obligations shall constitute a breach of the fiduciary duties of such director to the Corporation or Shareholders. In particular, the directors shall, in addition to their duties to the Corporation, be entitled to have regard to the interests of the Combined Shareholders as if the Corporation and P&O Princess were a single legal entity. They are also authorized to provide to P&O Princess and any officer, employee or agent of P&O Princess any information relating to the Corporation.
Section 3.20 . The Board of Directors may, by agreement with the P&O Princess Board:
Discretionary Matters
(a) decide to seek the approval of the shareholders (or any class of shareholders) of either or both of the Corporation and P&O Princess for any matter that would not otherwise require such approval;
(b) require any Joint Electorate Action to be approved instead as a Class Rights Action; or
(c) specify a higher majority vote than the required majority that would otherwise be required for any shareholder vote provided for in Section 2.7.
Section 3.21 . Any action which is required to be or which may be taken at any Regular or Special Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be taken in lieu of a meeting, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the majority of the members of the Board of Directors. In this case, the President or Secretary of the Corporation, shall certify that drafts of the proposed resolutions were made available in advance to all of the directors of the Corporation with right to vote; and that the directors who have subscribed to said resolutions constitute the number necessary for its approval.
Actions by the Directors without a Meeting
 
Section 3.22 .
Nominations of Directors
(a) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.22 are eligible for election as directors.
(b) Nominations of persons for election to the Board may only be made at a meeting properly called for the election of directors and only (i) by or at the direction of the Board or any committee thereof or (ii) by a Shareholder who (a) was a Shareholder of record of the Corporation when the notice required by this Section 3.22 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and at the time of the meeting, (b) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (c) complies with the notice and other provisions of this Section 3.22. Section 3.22(b)(ii) is the exclusive means by which a Shareholder may nominate a person for election to the Board. Persons nominated in accordance with Section 3.22(b)(ii) are referred to as "". A Shareholder nominating persons for election to the Board is referred to as the "".
Shareholder Nominees
Nominating Shareholder
(c) All nominations of Shareholder Nominees must be made by timely written notice given by or on behalf of a Shareholder of record of the Corporation (the ""). To be timely, the Notice of Nomination must be delivered personally or mailed to and received at the office of the Corporation, addressed to the attention of the Secretary of the Corporation, by no later than 7 days and no earlier than 42 days prior to the such meeting.
Notice of Nomination
(d) In no event shall an adjournment, postponement or deferral, or Public Disclosure of an adjournment, postponement or deferral, of an Annual Meeting or Special Meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of the Notice of Nomination.
(e) The Notice of Nomination shall set forth:
(i) the Shareholder Information with respect to each Nominating Shareholder and Shareholder Associated Person;
(ii) a representation that the Nominating Shareholder(s) meet the requirements set forth in Section 3.22(b)(ii) and intend to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such nomination;
(iii) all information regarding each Shareholder Nominee and Shareholder Associated Person that would be required to be set forth in a solicitation subject to Section 14 (or any successor section) of the Exchange Act, the written consent of each Shareholder Nominee to being named in a proxy statement as a nominee and to serve if elected; and
(iv) a description of all direct and indirect, existing or proposed agreements, arrangements and understandings with regard to the common stock of the Corporation to which the Nominating Shareholder or Shareholder Associated Person is a party.
 
(f) The Corporation may require any Shareholder Nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such Shareholder Nominee to serve as a director.
(g) The person presiding over the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any proposed nomination of a Shareholder Nominee was not made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.22 and, if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(h) If the Shareholder (or a qualified representative of the Shareholder) does not appear at the applicable Shareholder meeting to nominate the Shareholder Nominees, such nomination shall be disregarded and such business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 3.22, to be considered a qualified representative of the Shareholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such Shareholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such Shareholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such Shareholder to act for such Shareholder as proxy at the meeting of Shareholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of Shareholders.
(i) Nothing in this Section 3.22 shall be deemed to affect any rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to any applicable provision of the Articles of Incorporation.
Section 3.23 .
Directors' Power to Authorize Conflict Situations
(a) At any time the Board of Directors may authorize any situation or matter relating to a particular director that could give rise to a breach or conflict with such director's fiduciary duty, duty of loyalty, any express or implied doctrine of corporate opportunity or other similar law, regulation or duty (collectively, "") (each a ""). Such authorization (a "") may be granted by the Board of Directors by any procedures as the directors determine that the Conflict Matter concerned may be so authorized. The directors may terminate or withdraw a Conflict Authorization at any time by giving notice to the director concerned.
Directors' Duties
Conflict Matter
Conflict Authorization
(b) Any terms to which a Conflict Authorization is made subject ("") may include, in each case at the Board's discretion, that the director concerned:
Conflict Authorization Terms
(i) is not obliged to disclose to the Corporation confidential information obtained by him (other than in his capacity as its director or as its employee or agent or, if the directors so decide, in any other capacity that would otherwise oblige him to disclose it to the Corporation) in any situation to which the Conflict Authorization applies, nor to use any such information directly or indirectly for the benefit of the Corporation, where to do so would amount to a breach of a duty of confidence, previously disclosed to the directors by the director concerned, to any third party; and
 
(ii) may absent himself from any Board discussions, and make arrangements not to receive documents and information, relating to the Conflict Matter concerned for so long as he reasonably believes such conflict of interest (or possible conflict of interest) subsists,
and the Corporation will not treat anything done, or omitted to be done, by the director concerned in accordance with the Conflict Authorization Terms as a breach of Directors' Duties. The Corporation will not treat the receipt by the director concerned of any benefit that he is permitted to receive by the Conflict Authorization Terms as a breach of Directors' Duties. The director concerned shall comply with all Conflict Authorization Terms. No amendment or repeal of this Section 3.23 shall (i) apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal or (ii) be effective against any former director of the Corporation without his or her written consent.
Section 4.1 . The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more vice presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers as may be elected or appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.2. Officers may be of any nationality and need not be residents or citizens of the Republic of Panama. One person may hold more than one office. Officers may be, but need not be, directors of the Corporation or Shareholders.
Number, Qualifications and Designation
Section 4.2 . The officers of the Corporation, except those appointed by delegated authority pursuant to Section 4.3, shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors, and each such officer shall hold his office until his successor shall have been elected or appointed and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. More than two offices may be held by the same person. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors or appointed by delegated authority may be removed at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of members of the Board of Directors then in office. The removal of an officer without cause shall be without prejudice to his contract rights, if any. The election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights. Any vacancy occurring in the office of the Corporation may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3 . The Chairman of the Board, or, if a Chairman of the Board has not been chosen or is unavailable, the Vice-Chairman of the Board, or, if neither has been chosen or are unavailable, the President, shall preside at all meetings of the Shareholders and of the Board. The Chairman of the Board and the Vice-Chairman of the Board shall be executive officers of the Corporation and shall exercise such executive duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board. The officers and agents of the Corporation shall each have such powers and perform such duties in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation as generally pertain to their respective offices, as well as such powers and duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
Powers and Duties
 
Section 4.4 . The Board of Directors may from time to time elect such other officers and appoint such employees or other agents, or such committees (not constituting committees of the Board of Directors), as it deems necessary, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are provided in these By-Laws, or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors may delegate to any officer or committee of the Board of Directors referred to in Section 3.16 the power to appoint subordinate officers and to retain or appoint employees or other agents, or committees (not constituting committees of the Board of Directors) and to prescribe the authority, duties and compensation of such subordinate officers, committees, employees or other agents.
Other Officers, Subordinate Officers, Non-Board Committees and Agents
Section 5.1 . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares that may be evidenced by a book-entry system maintained by the registrar of such stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board. Each Shareholder shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates for shares of the Corporation owned by him upon his request thereof. Any share certificates of the Corporation shall be issued in registered form only, consistent with the provisions of Article 27 of the Corporation Law. They shall be signed by the President or a vice president and by the Secretary or an assistant secretary or the Treasurer or an assistant treasurer, and may bear the corporate seal, which may be a facsimile. The signatures of the officers upon such certificate may be facsimiles, if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar other than the Corporation itself or its employees. In case any officer who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before the certificate is issued it may be issued or delivered with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of its issue or delivery. The Corporation shall keep a record containing the names and addresses of all registered Shareholders, the number and class of shares held by each and the date when they respectively became the owners of record thereof.
Issue
Section 5.2 .
Transfer
(a) The Corporation may from time to time maintain one or more transfer offices or agents and registry offices or agents at such place or places as may be determined from time to time by the Board. Transfer of shares issued in the name of a holder of record shall be made only on the record of shareholders of the Corporation only by the holder thereof or by such holder's attorney lawfully constituted upon compliance with the customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form or upon surrender of and cancellation of the certificate therefor. Every transfer of shares by holders of record shall be entered on the record of shareholders of the Corporation. Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for registered shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation shall issue uncertificated shares to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its record of shareholders. No transfer of shares of capital stock shall be valid as against the Corporation, its shareholders and creditors for any purpose except to render the
 
transferee liable for the debts of the Corporation to the extent provided by law until such transfer shall have been entered on the record of shareholders of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
(b) Any applicant wishing to transfer shares shall pay to the Corporation any stamp or other duties or taxes payable in respect of the transfer, together with any charges imposed by the Corporation in respect of such transfer, all prior to and as a condition precedent to the issuance of any new certificates to such applicant.
Section 5.3 . No transfer of the Carnival Special Voting Share will take effect until the transfer has been approved in accordance with the SVE Special Voting Deed and until the transferee has agreed to be bound by the terms of the SVE Special Voting Deed.
Transfer of the Carnival Special Voting Share
Section 5.4 . The holder of any certificated shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction, theft or mutilation of the certificate representing such shares, and the corporation may issue a new certificate to replace the certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated. The Board may, in its discretion, as a condition to the issue of any such new certificate, require the owner of the lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated certificate, or his legal representatives, to make proof satisfactory to the Board of such loss, destruction, theft or mutilation and to advertise such fact in such manner as the Board may require, and to give the Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars, or such of them as the Board may require, a bond in such form, in such sums and with such surety or sureties as the Board may direct, to indemnify the Corporation and its transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made against any of them on account of the continued existence of any such certificate so alleged to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated and against any expense in connection with such claim.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates
Section 5.5 . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on the record of shareholders of the Corporation as the owner of registered shares to receive dividends, to vote and to exercise any other rights in respect of the shares held as the owner thereof.
Record Holder of Shares
Section 5.6 . In order that the Corporation may determine the holders of registered shares entitled to notice of meeting of Shareholders, or entitled to express consent to or dissent from any proposed corporate action without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of shares or for the purposes of any other action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If no such record is fixed:
Determination of Shareholders of Record
(a) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the date next preceding the day on which the meeting is held;
 
(b) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board is necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed; and
(c) The record date for determining stockholders for any purpose other than those specified in subsections (a) and (b) shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts resolution relating thereto.
A determination of registered Shareholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Shareholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; except that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for an adjourned meeting.
Section 6.1 . Whenever, under the provisions of the statutes of the Republic of Panama or the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any notice, request, demand or other communication is required to be or may be given or made to the Corporation, it shall also not be construed to mean that such notice, request, demand or other communication must be given or made in person, but the same may be given or made to the Corporation by mail or facsimile. Any such notice, request, demand or other communication shall be considered to have been properly given or made, in the case of mail when deposited in the mail, and in other cases when transmitted by the party giving or making the same, directed to the Corporation at its then registered address, provided that a copy of the same is sent by like medium of communication to the attention of the secretary at the Corporation's then principal place of business.
Notice to Corporation
Section 6.2 .
Waiver of Notice
(a) Whenever any written notice is required to be given under the provision of Applicable Regulation, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.
(b) Attendance of a person, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting.
Section 7.1 . The Corporation shall indemnify any person (and the heirs, executors, or administrators of such person) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or an officer of the Corporation or P&O Princess, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to the fullest extent and in the
Indemnification of Officers and Directors
 
manner set forth in and permitted by the Corporation Law, and any other applicable law, as from time to time in effect. Such right of indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which such director or officer may be entitled apart from the foregoing provisions. The foregoing provisions of this Section 7.1 shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each director and officer of the Corporation or P&O Princess who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article VII and the relevant provisions of the Corporation Law and other applicable law, if any, are in effect, and any repeal or modification thereof shall not (i) affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts or (ii) be effective against any former director of the Corporation without his or her written consent.
Section 7.2 . The Corporation may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as a director, officer, employee or agent or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to the extent and in the manner set forth in and permitted by the Corporation Law, and any other applicable law, as from time to time in effect. Such right of indemnification shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any such person may be entitled apart from he foregoing provisions.
Indemnification of Other Persons
Section 7.3 . The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or P&O Princess, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or P&O Princess as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of Sections 7.1 and 7.2 hereof or under the Corporation Law or any other provision of law.
Insurance
Section 8.1 .
Dividends
(a) Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, and the Equalization Agreement, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to Applicable Regulation. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property or in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and the Equalization Agreement. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, thinks proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for repairing
 
or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purposes as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
(b) The Corporation or other person paying any dividend or issuing any right on behalf of the Corporation shall be entitled to withhold therefrom any taxes required to be withheld by the laws and regulations of any taxing authority having jurisdiction in the circumstances.
Section 8.2 . Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers or any agent or agents, to enter into any contract or to execute or deliver any instrument on behalf of the Corporation and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
Section 8.3 . The President or any other officer, employee or agent authorized to do so by the Board may effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institutions or from any firm, corporation or individual and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes, bonds or other certificates or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and, when authorized by the Board so to do, may pledge and hypothecate or transfer any securities or the property of the Corporation as security for any such loans or advances. Such authority conferred by the Board may be general or confined to specific instances or otherwise limited.
Loans
Section 8.4 . All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board.
Checks, Drafts, Etc
Section 8.5 . The funds of the Corporation otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the order of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board may select or as may be selected by a officer, employee or agent of the Corporation to whom such power may from time to time be delegated by the Board.
Deposits
Section 8.6 . The corporate seal shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its incorporation and the words "Republic of Panama." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced.
Corporate Seal
Section 8.7 . Every Shareholder shall, upon written demand stating the purpose thereof, have a right to inspect, in person or by agent or attorney, during the usual hours of business, for a purpose reasonably related to his interests as a Shareholder, the share register, books of account, and minutes of all proceedings, and make copies or extracts therefrom.
Corporate Records
Section 8.8 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined, and may be changed, by resolution of the Board.
Fiscal Year
 
Section 8.9 . These By-Laws may be amended in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation.
Amendment of By-Laws
Section 8.10 . Any amendment to or any amendment and restatement of these By-Laws shall govern the affairs of the Corporation from and after the date stated in the resolution adopting the same.
Effective Date
Section 9.1 For purposes of these By-Laws:
"Amendment Date" means April 17, 2003.
"Annual Meeting" means the annual meeting of the Shareholders as described in Section 2.2.
"Applicable Exchange Rate" means, in relation to any proposed Distributions by the Corporation and P&O Princess in relation to which a foreign exchange rate is required, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before the Distribution Determination Date relating to such Distributions (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times, or such other point of reference as the parties shall agree), or such other spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate or average US dollar-sterling exchange rate as at such other date (or over such other period) before a Distribution Determination Date as the Board of Directors and the P&O Princess Board shall agree, in each case rounded to five decimal places.
"Applicable Regulation" means
(a) any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, judgment, order, decree, license, permit, directive or requirement of any Governmental Agency having jurisdiction over the Corporation; and
(b) the rules, regulations, and guidelines of:
(i) any stock exchange or other trading market on which any shares or other securities or depositary receipts representing such shares or securities of the Corporation or P&O Princess are listed, traded or quoted; and
(ii) any other body with which entities with securities listed or quoted on such exchanges customarily comply,
(but, if not having the force of law, only if compliance with such directives, requirements, rules, regulations or guidelines is in accordance with the general practice of persons to whom they are intended to apply) in each case for the time being in force and taking account all exemptions, waivers or variations from time to time applicable (in particular situations or generally) to the Corporation or, as the case may be, P&O Princess.
 
"Articles of Incorporation" means the articles of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time.
"Board of Directors" or "Board" means the board of directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee of the board of directors of the Corporation) from time to time.
"Carnival Common Stock" has the same meaning as described in the Articles of Incorporation.
"Carnival Deed of Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee dated as of April 17, 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess pursuant to which the Corporation guarantees certain obligations of P&O Princess for the benefit of certain future creditors of P&O Princess, as amended from time to time.
"Carnival Entrenched Provision" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Articles of Incorporation.
"Carnival Equivalent Number" means the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Princess Ordinary Share. Initially, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be 0.30040, but it shall adjust as provided in Clause 4 of the Equalization Agreement and the Schedule thereto. In all cases, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be rounded to five decimal places;
"Carnival Special Voting Share" means the special voting share, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation.
"Class Rights Action" means any of the actions listed in Section 2.18.
"Combined Shareholders" means the holders of Carnival Common Stock and the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares.
"Conflict Authorization" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.22(a).
"Conflict Authorization Terms" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.22(b).
"Conflict Matter" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.22(a).
"Control" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(i).
"Corporation" means Carnival Corporation, a corporation organized and existing in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Panama.
"Corporation Law" shall mean Law 32 of the Corporation Law of 1927 of the Republic of Panama, as amended.
"Deeds of Guarantee" means the Carnival Deed of Guarantee and the P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee.
 
"Derivative" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(d)(iii).
"Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning in the Articles of Incorporation.
"DLC SVC" means the holder, from time to time, of the Carnival Special Voting Share.
"DLC SVC Owner" shall mean the holder, from time to time, of the equity interests in DLC SVC.
"Equalization Agreement" means the Equalization and Governance Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess, as amended from time to time.
"Equalization Ratio" means the ratio of (i) one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to (ii) the Carnival Equivalent Number;
"Equalization Share" shall mean, in relation to the Corporation, any share designated as an Equalization Share in the Corporation from time to time by the Board and, in relation to P&O Princess, the Equalization Share of 1 in the capital of P&O Princess.
"Equivalent Resolution" means a resolution of either the Corporation or P&O Princess that is equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company.
"Exchange Act" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b).
"Governmental Agency" means a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or any governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory, or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental entity and shall include any relevant competition authorities, the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority.
"Implementation Agreement" means the Offer and Implementation Agreement, dated as of January 8, 2003, between the Corporation and P&O Princess.
"Joint Electorate Action" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.16.
"Liquidation" means, with respect to either the Corporation or P&O Princess, any liquidation, winding up, receivership, dissolution, insolvency or equivalent proceedings pursuant to which the assets of such company will be liquidated and distributed to creditors and other holders of provable claims against such company.
"London Stock Exchange" means the London Stock Exchange plc.
"Majority Resolution" means a resolution duly approved at a meeting of the Corporation's Shareholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the votes cast on such resolution by all shareholders of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon (including, where
 
applicable, the DLC SVC) who are present in person or by proxy at such meeting; that abstentions shall not be deemed to be "votes cast" for these purposes.
provided
"New York Stock Exchange" means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
"Nominating Shareholder" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.22(b).
"Notice of Business" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(c).
"Notice of Nomination" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.22(c).
"Ordinary Shares" means that Carnival Common Stock and the P&O Princess Ordinary Shares, as the context requires.
"Other Voting Shares" means, with respect to any resolution to be acted on by the shareholders of the Corporation or P&O Princess, as the case may be, such shares of capital stock of that company that are entitled to vote on such resolution at a meeting of the shareholders of such company, other than the Carnival Special Voting Share, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and the Ordinary Shares (including the Disenfranchised Carnival Common Stock).
"Parallel Shareholder Meeting" means, in relation to P&O Princess, any meeting of the shareholders of P&O Princess which is:
(a) nearest in time to, or is contemporaneous with, the meeting of the Shareholders of the Corporation and at which some or all of the same resolutions or some or all Equivalent Resolutions are to be considered; or
(b) designated by the P&O Princess Board as the parallel meeting of shareholders of a particular meeting of Shareholders of the Corporation.
"P&O Princess Articles" means the P&O Princess articles of association, as amended from time to time.
"P&O Princess" means Carnival plc, formerly known as P&O Princess plc, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
"P&O Princess Board" means the Board of Directors of P&O Princess.
"P&O Princess Deed of Guarantee" means the deed of guarantee dated as of April 17, 2003, between P&O Princess and the Corporation whereby P&O Princess agrees to guarantee certain obligations of the Corporation for the benefit of certain future creditors of the Corporation, as amended from time to time.
"P&O Princess Entrenched Provision" means those provisions designated as such in the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles.
"P&O Princess Equivalent Number" has the meaning given in the definition of "Equalization Ratio."
 
"P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles" means the P&O Princess memorandum and articles of association, as amended from time to time.
"P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to in the P&O Princess Articles.
"P&O Princess Special Voting Share" means the special voting share of 1 in P&O Princess.
"P&O Princess SVT" shall mean P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands or any successor thereto.
"P&O Princess SVT Agreement" shall mean the Voting Trust Deed, forming P&O Princess SVT, between P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival, dated as of April 17, 2003, as amended from time to time.
"P&O Princess Trustee" means The Law Debenture Trust Corporation (Cayman) Limited, as trustee of P&O Princess SVT pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement (or any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.06 thereof).
"Procedural Resolutions" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.20.
"Proponent" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(d)(i).
"Public Disclosure" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(g).
"SEC" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor organization.
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Corporation.
"Shareholder Associated Person" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(h).
"Shareholder Business" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b).
"Shareholder Information" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(d)(iii).
"Shareholder Nominees" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.22(b).
"Shareholders" means the holders of shares of the Corporation's capital stock.
"Special Meeting" means a meeting of the Shareholders other than an Annual Meeting as described in Section 2.4.
"Special Voting Share" means, in relation to the Corporation, the Carnival Special Voting Share and, in relation to P&O Princess, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share.
 
"Supermajority Resolution" means a resolution required by Applicable Regulations, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes cast than required under a Majority Resolution, or where the percentage of votes in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by a Majority Resolution.
"SVE Special Voting Deed" means the SVE Special Voting Deed, dated as of April 17, 2003, by and among the Corporation, DLC SVC, DLC SVC Owner, P&O Princess and P&O Princess Trustee, as amended from time to time.
 

Exhibit 3.2
Company No. 4039524
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company No. 4039524
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to a resolution passed on 21 September 2000, the 2 issued ordinary shares in the capital of the Company were redesignated as subscriber shares of 1 each.
Pursuant to a resolution passed on 21 September 2000, the authorised share capital was increased from 50,000 to 50,000 and $375,000,000 by the creation of 750,000,000 ordinary shares of $0.50 each.
Pursuant to a resolution passed on 16 April 2003, the authorised share capital was increased from 50,000 and $375,000,000 to 100,002 and $375,000,000 by the creation of 1 special voting share of 1, 1 equalisation share of 1 and 50,000 redeemable preference shares of 1 each.
Pursuant to a resolution passed on 17 April 2003, the ordinary shares of $0.50 were consolidated and subdivided into new ordinary shares of $1.66 each.
Pursuant to a resolution passed on 15 April 2009, the authorised share capital was increased from 100,002 and $374,999,999.24 by the creation of 74,096,386 ordinary shares of $1.66 each.
 

Exhibit 3.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company number: 4039524
 
 
PRELIMINARY
Table A
 
Definitions
 
"Act" means the Companies Act 1985 including any modification or re-enactment of it for the time being in force;
"2006 Act" means the Companies Act 2006 including any modification or re-enactment of it for the time being in force;
"Acting in Concert" has the same meaning as it has in the City Code provided that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, none of (x) the Arisen Group, (y) the Carnival Group or (z) the P&O Princess Group (each, a "Non-Concert Group"), shall be deemed to be Acting in Concert with any other Non-Concert Group for the purposes of these Articles;
"Action" means, in relation to Carnival or the Company, any action affecting the amount or nature of issued share capital of such company, including any non-cash Distribution, offer by way of rights, bonus issue, sub-division or consolidation, or buy-back;
"Acts" means the Act and all other statutes and subordinate legislation for the time being in force concerning companies so far as they apply to the Company;
"address" in relation to electronic communications, includes any number or address used for the purposes of such communications;
a person shall be treated as "Appearing to be Interested" in any Ordinary Shares if:
 
 
 
 
"Applicable Exchange Rate" means, in relation to any proposed Distributions by the Company and Carnival in relation to which a foreign exchange rate is required, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before the Distribution Determination Date relating to such Distributions (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times, or such other point of reference as the parties shall agree), or such other spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate or average US dollar-sterling exchange rate as at such other date (or over such other period) before a Distribution Determination Date as the Board and the Board of Carnival shall agree, in each case rounded to five decimal places;
"Applicable Regulations" means;
 
 
 
 
(but, if not having the force of law, only if compliance with such directives, requirements, rules, regulations or guidelines is in accordance with the general practice of persons to whom they are intended to apply) in each case for the time being in force and taking account all exemptions, waivers or variations from time to time applicable (in particular situations or generally) to the Company or, as the case may be, Carnival;
"Arison Group" shall mean each of Marilyn B. Arison, Micky Arison, Shari Arison, Michael Arison or their spouses or children or lineal descendants of Marilyn B. Arison, Micky Arison, Shari Arison, Michael Arison of their spouses, any trust established by Theodore Arison, any trust established for the benefit of any Arison family member mentioned in this definition, or any "person" (as such term is used in Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by or under common control with any Arison family member mentioned in this definition or any trust established for the benefit of any such Arison family member or any charitable trust or non-profit entity established by a member of the Arison Group but excluding (for the avoidance of doubt) Carnival, the Company or any of their respective Subsidiaries or affiliates.
"Articles" means these articles of association as altered from time to time by special resolution;
"Associated Tax Credit" means, in relation to any Distribution proposed to be made by the Company, the amount of any imputed or associated Tax credit or rebate or exemption (or the value of any other similar associated Tax Benefit) which would be available to a holder of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares receiving or entitled to receive the Distribution, together with the amount of any credit or benefit in respect of any Tax required to be deducted or withheld from the Distribution by or on behalf of the Company;
"Auditors" means the auditors of the Company;
 
"beneficially own" shall mean to possess beneficial ownership as determined under Rule 13d-3 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
"Board" means the board of directors of the Company (or a duly authorised committee of the board of directors of the Company) from time to time;
"Board of Carnival" means the board of directors of Carnival (or a duly authorised committee of the board of directors of Carnival) from time to time;
"Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day on which banking institutions in the cities of both New York and London are authorised or obligated by law or executive order to close in the United Sates or England (or on which day such banking institutions are open solely for trading in euros);
"Carnival" means Carnival Corporation;
"Carnival Common Stock" has the meaning set out in the Carnival Constitution;
"Carnival Constitution" means the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of Carnival as amended from time to time;
"Carnival Entrenched Provisions" means the Carnival Entrenched Articles and the Carnival Entrenched By-Laws as defined in the Carnival Constitution;
"Carnival Equivalent Number" means the number of shares of Carnival Common Stock that have the same rights to distributions of income and capital and voting rights as one P&O Ordinary Share. Initially, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be 0.30040 but it shall adjust as provided in Clause 4 of the Equalization Agreement and the Schedule thereto. In all cases, the Carnival Equivalent Number shall be rounded to five decimal places;
"Carnival Group" means Carnival and its Subsidiaries from time to time;
"Carnival Guarantee" means the guarantee of the same date as the Equalization Agreement between Carnival and the Company under which Carnival agrees to guarantee certain obligations of the Company for the benefit of certain future creditors of the Company, as amended from time to time;
"Carnival Special Voting Share" means the special voting share in the capital of Carnival having the rights set out in the Carnival Constitution;
"certificated share" means a share in the capital of the Company that is not an uncertificated share and references in these Articles to a share being held in certificated form shall be construed accordingly;
"Charitable Beneficiary" means any registered charity or similar body or organisation;
"City Code" means the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers as amended from time to time (including any supplemental or replacement Applicable Regulations), and including any actions required, or approved, by any relevant governing or supervisory body with authority in relation to the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (or any replacement);
"Class Rights Action" means any of the actions listed in Article 124;
"Combined Group" means the Company, Carnival and their respective subsidiaries;
"Combined Group City Code Limit" means, at any time (i) with respect to any person other than a Significant Combined Group Holder (or persons Acting in Concert), such Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and Carnival Common Stock) representing, in aggregate and after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, the right to cast 30 per cent of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time, or (ii) with respect to a Significant
 
Combined Group Holder only, any further Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock) which increase that person's percentage of votes which could be cast on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time;
"Combined Group Excess Shares" means the Ordinary Shares designated as such pursuant to Article 279;
"Combined Group Excess Share Trust" means any trust established by the Company for the purposes, inter alia, of holding Combined Group Restricted Shares on behalf of, and for the benefit of, a Charitable Beneficiary;
"Combined Group Excess Share Trustee" means any body corporate, association or other person appointed as a trustee by the Company who is empowered to hold, possess, dispose of and/or deal with the Combined Group Restricted Shares;
"Combined Group Restricted Shares" means the Ordinary Shares as determined by reference to Article 277;
"Combined Shareholders" means the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the holders of Carnival Common Stock;
"Companies Acts" has the meaning given by section 744 of the Act and includes any enactment passed after those Acts which may, by virtue of that or any other enactment, be cited together with those Acts as the "Companies Acts" (with or without the addition of an indication of the date of any such enactment);
"Company Communication Provisions" means the company communication provisions in the 2006 Act (being the provisions at sections 1144 to 1148 and schedules 4 and 5);
"Compulsory Acquisition" means, with respect to a class of shares in the capital of P&O Princess, a compulsory acquisition of such class of shares in accordance with section 428 of the Act;
"director" means a director of the Company;
"Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares" has the meaning given to it in Article 21A;
"Distribution" means, in relation to the Company or Carnival, any dividend or other distribution, whether of income or capital, and in whatever form, made by the Company or Carnival (or any of their subsidiaries) to the holders of Ordinary Shares by way of pro rata entitlement, excluding any Liquidation Distribution, buy-back, repurchase or cancellation of Ordinary Shares;
"Distribution Determination Date" means, with respect to any parallel Distributions to be made by the Company and Carnival, the date on which the Board and the Board of Carnival resolve to pay or make such parallel Distributions (or if they resolve on different dates to pay or make such parallel Distributions, the later of those dates);
"dividend" means dividend or bonus;
"DLC Structure" means the combination of the Company and Carnival by means of a dual listed company structure whereby, amongst other things, the Company and Carnival have a unified management structure and the businesses of both the Carnival Group and the P&O Princess Group are managed on a unified basis in accordance with the provisions of the Equalization Agreement;
"DLC SVC" means the holder, from time to time, of the Carnival Special Voting Share;
"DLC SVC Owner" means the holder, from time to time, of the equity interests in DLC SVC;
"electronic signature" has the meaning given by section 7(2) of the Electronic Communications Act 2000;
 
"employees' share scheme" has the meaning given by section 743 of the Act;
"entitled by transmission" means, in relation to a share in the capital of the Company, entitled as a consequence of the death or bankruptcy of the holder or otherwise by operation of law;
"Equalization Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Company and Carnival and entitled the Equalization and Governance Agreement, as amended from time to time;
"Equalization Distribution Amount" means the amount of any Distribution proposed to be paid or made by the Company or Carnival on its Ordinary Shares, before deduction of any amount in respect of Tax required to be deducted or withheld from such Distribution by or on behalf of such company and excluding the amount of any Associated Tax Credit, all such amounts being expressed in the currency of payment and on a per share basis;
"Equalization Ratio" means, at any time, the ratio of (i) one P&O Princess Ordinary Share to (ii) the Carnival Equivalent Number as of such time;
"Equalization Share" means, in relation to the Company, an Equalization Share in the capital of the Company with a par value of (pound)1 having the rights set out in Article 22 and, in relation to Carnival, any share in the capital of Carnival designated as an Equalization Share from time to time by the Board of Carnival;
"Equivalent Distribution" shall have the meaning set out in Article 234;
"Equivalent Resolution" means a resolution of either the Company or Carnival that is equivalent in nature and effect to a resolution of the other company;
"Exchange Event" means any of the following:
 
 
 
Arrangements that would not materially and adversely affect the rights of the shareholders of the Company or Carnival, taken together or in relation to each other and (z) the Change in Other Law or Final Order is reasonably likely to be enforced in a way that will have a material adverse effect on the Company and Carnival, considered as a single enterprise;
"Exchange Notice" means a notice that is served on the holders of P&O Princess Ordinary Shareholders subsequent to the occurrence of an Exchange Event;
"Governmental Agency" means a court of competent jurisdiction or any government or governmental, regulatory, self-regulatory or administrative authority, agency, commission, body or other governmental entity and shall include without limitation any relevant competition authorities, the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing Authority, the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange;
"holder" in relation to a share in the capital of the Company means the member whose name is entered in the register as the holder of that share;
"Interested" and "Interest" shall be construed in the same way as for the purposes of section 793 of the 2006 Act.
"Joint Electorate Action" shall have the meaning set out in Article 126;
"Liquidation" means, with respect to either the Company or Carnival, any liquidation, winding up, receivership, dissolution, insolvency or equivalent proceedings pursuant to which the assets of either the Company or Carnival will be liquidated and distributed to creditors and other holders of recognisable claims against such company;
"Liquidation Distribution" means in relation to the Company or Carnival, any dividend or other distribution per Ordinary Share, whether of income or capital and in whatever form, made or to be made by such company or any of its Subsidiaries to the holders of such company's Ordinary Shares by way of pro rata entitlement in connection with the Liquidation of such company;
"Liquidation Exchange Rate" means as at any date, the average of the closing mid-point spot US dollar-sterling exchange rate on the five Business Days ending on the Business Day before such date (as shown in the London edition of the Financial Times), or such other point of reference as the Board and the Board of Carnival or the Board and liquidators of Carnival or the Board of Carnival and the liquidators of the Company or the liquidators of both the Company and Carnival, as the case may be, may determine in each case rounded to five decimal places;
"London Stock Exchange" means London Stock Exchange plc;
"Mandatory Exchange" shall have the meaning set out in Article 289;
"Market Price" means the average of the daily closing price of an Ordinary Share on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List, over the five consecutive Dealing Days prior to the relevant date;
"member" means, unless the context otherwise requires, a member of the Company;
"Member Present" means, in connection with a meeting, a member present at the venue or venues for the meeting, in person or by proxy, by attorney or, where the member is a body corporate, by representative;
"Memorandum" means the memorandum of association of the Company as amended from time to time;
"NYSE" means New York Stock Exchange, Inc;
"office" means the registered office of the Company;
 
"Operator" means the "Operator" of the "relevant system", in each case as defined in the Regulations;
"Ordinary Share" means a P&O Princess Ordinary Share and/or a share of Carnival Common Stock, as the context requires;
"paid" means paid or credited as paid;
"Parallel Shareholder Meeting" means, in relation to Carnival, any meeting of the shareholders of Carnival which is:
 
 
"P&O Princess" or "Carnival plc" means the Company;
"P&O Princess Entrenched Provision" means Articles 19, 20, 21, 21A, 22, 52, 76, 77, 96, 97, 98, 112, 113, 124 to 132 (inclusive), 136, 147, 174, 177, 189, 194, 195(c), 234 to 237 (inclusive), 272 to 275 (inclusive), 277 to 287 (inclusive) and 289 to 292 (inclusive) and the definitions referred to therein;
"P&O Princess Guarantee" means the guarantee of the same date as the Equalization Agreement between the Company and Carnival under which the Company agrees to guarantee certain obligations of Carnival for the benefit of certain future creditors of Carnival, as amended from time to time;
"P&O Princess Group" means the Company and its Subsidiaries from time to time;
"P&O Princess Ordinary Shares" means ordinary shares in the capital of the Company (and, in respect of Articles 125, 128 and 129 only, will include any security entitled to vote on the relevant resolution), excluding the P&O Princess Special Voting Share and the Equalization Share, and except with respect to any voting rights (as described in Articles 147 and 148), on a Liquidation (as described in Articles 272-276 inclusive) and rights on a Mandatory Exchange (as described in Articles 289-292 inclusive), shall also include the Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares;
"P&O Princess Special Voting Share" means the special voting share in the capital of the Company (having the rights set out in and referred to in Article 19);
"P&O Princess SVT" means P&O Princess Special Voting Trust, a trust organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands or any successor thereto;
"P&O Princess SVT Agreement" means the Voting Trust Deed, establishing P&O Princess SVT, between P&O Princess Trustee and Carnival, dated as of April 17, 2003, as amended from time to time;
"P&O Princess Trustee" means The Law Debenture Trust Corporation (Cayman) Limited, as trustee of P&O Princess SVT pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement (or any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Section 7.06 thereof);
"Qualifying Takeover Offer" means an offer or offers to acquire Carnival Common Stock and P&O Princess Ordinary shares (i) which would be in accordance with the provisions of the City Code to the extent that the City Code applies to the Combined Group, and (ii) which:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"recognised person" means a recognised clearing house or a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised investment exchange, each of which terms having the meaning given to it by section 778(2) of the 2006 Act;
"register" means the register of members of the Company;
"Regulations" means the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001;
"seal" means the common seal of the Company and includes any official seal kept by the Company for sealing securities issued by the Company pursuant to the Companies Acts;
"secretary" means the secretary of the Company and includes a joint, assistant, deputy or temporary secretary and any other person appointed to perform the duties of the secretary;
"Significant Combined Group Holder" means any person who, after complying with the provisions of Articles 277 to 287, whether solely or together with any party Acting in Concert with such person, holds or exercises voting control over Ordinary Shares (which may include either or both of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares or Carnival Common Stock) representing, in aggregate and after giving effect to the Equalization Ratio, the right to cast not less than 30 per cent and not more than 50 per cent of the votes on a Joint Electorate Action from time to time;
"Special Resolution" means, with respect to the Company or Carnival, a resolution required by Applicable Regulations and/or the Carnival Constitution or the Memorandum and these Articles, as relevant, to be approved by a higher percentage of votes voted than required under an ordinary resolution, or where the percentages of votes in favour and against the resolution is required to be calculated by a different mechanism to that required by an ordinary resolution;
"subsidiary" means with respect to the Company or Carnival, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, in which such company owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the securities or other ownership interests having by their terms ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors or other persons performing similar functions, or the management and policies of which such company otherwise has the power to direct;
"Substantive Resolution" means any resolution of the Company to be considered at a general meeting other than a resolution of a procedural or technical nature;
 
"Tax" means any taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings or duties levied by any authority (including stamp and transaction duties) (together with any related interest, penalties, fines and expenses in connection with them);
"Tax Benefit" means any credit, rebate, exemption or benefit in respect of Tax available to any person;
"uncertificated share" means a share in the capital of the Company which is recorded on the register as being held in uncertificated form and title to which may, by virtue of the Regulations, be transferred by means of a relevant system and references in these Articles to a share being held in uncertificated form shall be construed accordingly;
"United Kingdom" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland; and
"Voting Agreement" means the deed entered into among the Company, Carnival, DLC SVC, DLC SVC Owner and P&O Princess Trustee and entitled the SVE Special Voting Deed, as amended or novated from time to time, and shall include any deed entered into to replace that deed or any such replacement.
CONSTRUCTION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHARE CAPITAL
Share capital
 
 
 
 
 
 
The liability of the members is limited to the amount, if any, unpaid on the shares respectively held by them.
 
Return of Capital
 
P&O Princess Special Voting Share
 
 
 
 
 
shares but ahead of the Equalization Share for repayment of any capital paid up or credited as paid up and shall only be entitled to repayment of the nominal value paid up on its share. The P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall not be entitled to receive any dividends.
 
 
 
 
Following the transfer of any Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares from the Carnival Group to a person who is not a member of, or Acting in Concert with, the Combined Group such Disenfranchised P&O Ordinary Shares shall automatically be reclassified on the day that such shares are, following such transfer, registered in the register of members of the Company into shares of the same class carrying liquidation rights and/or voting rights.
 
 
 
 
 
encumbrances arising pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement and that the share would be transferred with full title guarantee save for encumbrances arising pursuant to the P&O Princess SVT Agreement) and such appointment shall endure for so long as is necessary to complete the sale of the P&O Princess Special Voting Share; and
 
 
 
 
 
Equalization Share
 
 
 
 
Shares with special rights
 
Share warrants to bearer
 
 
Conditions of issue of share warrants
 
 
 
 
The bearer of such a warrant shall be subject to the conditions for the time being in force in relation to the warrant, whether made before or after the issue of the warrant. Subject to those conditions and to the Companies Acts, the bearer shall be deemed to be a member of the Company and shall have the same rights and privileges as he would have if his name had been included in the register as the holder of the shares comprised in the warrant.
No right in relation to share
 
Uncertificated shares
 
Not separate class of shares
 
 
 
Exercise of Company's entitlements in respect of uncertificated shares
 
 
 
 
 
Authority for allotment of securities
 
Disapplication of pre-emption rights
 
 
 
Allotment after expiry
 
Further Definitions
 
"prescribed period" means any period for which the authority conferred by Article 30 is given by ordinary or special resolution stating the allotment amount and/or the power conferred by Article 31 is given by special resolution stating the disapplication amount;
"allotment amount" means, for any prescribed period, the amount stated in the relevant ordinary or special resolution; and
"disapplication amount" means, for any prescribed period, the amount stated in the relevant special resolution.
Residual allotment powers
 
 
 
REDEEMABLE SHARES
Redeemable shares
 
Redeemable Preference Shares
 
Dividends
 
 
Capital
 
No further rights to dividends or capital
 
Voting
 
Redemption
 
 
 
 
 
The holders of the redeemable preference shares to be redeemed shall be bound by the Redemption Notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
out of distributable profits, or to the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, out of the share premium account of the Company.
 
Commissions
 
Trusts not recognised
 
VARIATION OF RIGHTS
Method of varying rights
 
 
 
but not otherwise.
SHARE CERTIFICATES
Members' rights to certificates
 
 
 
 
Replacement certificates
 
LIEN
Company to have lien on shares
 
Enforcement of lien by sale
 
Giving effect to sale
 
Application of proceeds
 
CALLS ON SHARES
Power to make calls
 
 
person on whom a call is made shall remain liable for calls made on him even if the shares in respect of which the call was made are subsequently transferred.
Time when call made
 
Liability of joint holders
 
Interest payable
 
Deemed calls
 
Differentiation on calls
 
Payment of calls in advance
 
FORFEITURE AND SURRENDER
Notice requiring payment of call
 
 
Forfeiture for non-compliance
 
Sale of forfeited shares
 
Liability following forfeiture
 
Surrender
 
Extinction of rights
 
Evidence of forfeiture or surrender
 
 
affected by any irregularity in, or invalidity of, the proceedings in reference to the forfeiture, surrender, sale, re-allotment or disposal of the share.
TRANSFER OF SHARES
Form and execution of transfer of certificated share
 
Right to refuse registration
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfers by recognised persons
 
Notice of refusal to register
 
 
No fee payable on registration
 
 
Retention of transfers
 
TRANSMISSION OF SHARES
Transmission
 
Elections permitted
 
Elections required
 
Rights of persons entitled by transmission
 
ALTERATION OF SHARE CAPITAL
Alterations by ordinary resolution
 
 
 
 
 
New shares subject to these Articles
 
 
 
Fractions arising
 
Power to reduce capital
 
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
Power to purchase own shares
 
GENERAL MEETINGS
Types of general meeting
 
 
Convening general meetings
 
Recipients of notice
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS
Period of notice
 
Contents of notice: general
 
Contents of notice: additional requirements
 
Article 105 arrangements
 
 
General meetings at more than one place
 
 
 
 
Interruption or adjournment where facilities inadequate
 
Other arrangements for viewing/hearing proceedings
 
Controlling level of attendance
 
Change in place and/or time of meeting
 
 
the places, in the case of a meeting to which Article 103 applies) and/or postpone the time again if it decides that it is reasonable to do so. In either case:
 
 
 
Meaning of participate
 
Accidental omission to give notice etc.
 
Security
 
PROCEEDINGS AT GENERAL MEETINGS
Quorum
 
 
 
of outstanding Carnival Common Stock vote at the Parallel General Meeting), are cast on the resolution proposing such Joint Electorate Action.
 
If quorum not present
 
Chairman
 
Directors entitled to attend and speak
 
Adjournments: chairman's powers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjournments: procedures
 
 
Class meetings
 
 
 
 
 
 
VOTING RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES UNDER THE EQUALIZATION AGREEMENT
Class Rights Actions
 
 
 
 
valid business purpose in which such company receives consideration with a fair market value reasonably equivalent to the assets disposed of and not as a part of a scheme, plan, transaction or series of related transactions the primary purpose or effect of which is to collapse or unify the DLC Structure;
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Articles, none of the foregoing actions may be undertaken by the Company unless it has been approved as a Class Rights Action in accordance with Article 125.
Class Rights Action Procedure
 
 
 
 
 
(x) if the resolution needs to be passed at the Company's general meeting by an ordinary resolution, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat an ordinary resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (excluding the P&O Princess Special Voting Share)
 
were cast in favour of the resolution at the Company's general meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution; or (y) if the resolution needs to be passed at the Company's general meeting by a Special Resolution, then the P&O Princess Voting Share shall be entitled to cast such number of votes representing the largest whole percentage that is less than the percentage of the number of votes as would be necessary to defeat a Special Resolution if the total votes capable of being cast by the issued P&O Princess Ordinary Shares and the other class of shares of P&O Princess that are entitled to vote pursuant to Applicable Regulations and/or the P&O Princess Memorandum and Articles (excluding the P&O Princess Special Voting Share) were cast in favour of the resolution at the Company's general meeting, and all such votes shall be cast against approval of such resolution.
By way of further explanation, expressed as a formula, the P&O Princess Special Voting Share shall be entitled to cast the following number of votes:
 
Accordingly, for an ordinary resolution, 50 percent is the minimum percent needed to defeat the resolution, and the figure in brackets would be 98 percent. In the event that a Special Resolution is required to carry 75 percent of the votes cast, then 25.01 (rounded down to the nearest hundredth) percent would be the minimum percent needed to defeat the resolution, and the figure in brackets would be approximately 32 percent.
Joint Electorate Actions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Joint Electorate Action Procedure
 
 
 
 
 
Resolutions Generally
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods of voting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Declaration of result in the absence of a poll
 
Procedure on a poll
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effectiveness of special resolutions
 
 
VOTING RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES
Right to vote
 
 
 
 
 
Votes of joint holders
 
Member under incapacity
 
Calls in arrears
 
Errors in voting
 
 
adjournment of the meeting, and, in the opinion of the chairman (in his absolute discretion), it is of sufficient magnitude to vitiate the result of the voting.
Objection to voting
 
Disclosure Notice
 
 
 
The directors may give a Disclosure Notice at any time and may give one or more notices to the same members or other person in respect of the same Ordinary Shares.
Failure to comply with Disclosure Notice
 
Additional directions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional shares
 
 
 
Section 794 of the 2006 Act
 
Conversion of uncertificated shares
 
 
PROXIES AND CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES
Appointment of proxy: execution
 
 
Method of proxy appointment
 
 
 
the Board may, if it thinks fit, but subject to the Companies Acts, at the Company's expense send or make available forms of proxy to members for use at any general meeting and issue invitations in electronic form to appoint a proxy in relation to the meeting in such form as may be approved by the Board. The omission to send out or make available forms of proxy or an invitation to appoint a proxy in relation to a general meeting to any member, or the non-receipt of such form or invitation by any member, shall not invalidate any resolution passed or proceedings at the general meeting concerned. The appointment of a proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting or poll concerned. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting is entitled to appoint another person, or two or more persons, in respect of different shares held by him, as his proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and to vote at the meeting. A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Sending of proxy appointment
 
 
 
 
by a time not less than 48 hours (or such shorter time as the Board may determine) before the time appointed for holding the meeting concerned or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote; or
 
 
 
 
by a time not less than 48 hours (or such shorter time as the Board may determine) before the time appointed for holding the meeting concerned or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote; or
 
 
For the purposes of calculating any period of time under this Article or Article 169, no account need be taken by the Company of any part of a day that is not a working day.
 
Delivery of authority
 
 
 
 
Validity of proxy appointment
 
Rights of proxy
 
Corporate representatives
 
 
holders of any class of shares. A director, the secretary or other person authorised for the purpose by the secretary may require such person or persons to produce a certified copy of the resolution of authorisation before permitting him to exercise his powers. The grantor shall for the purposes of these Articles be deemed to be present in person at any such meeting if a person so authorised is present at it and all references to attendance and voting in person shall, subject to the Companies Acts, be construed accordingly.
Revocation of authority
 
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
Limits on number of directors
 
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
Directors
Number of directors to retire
 
 
 
Which directors to retire
 
Eligibility for election and effectiveness of appointment
 
 
 
 
Separate resolutions on appointment
 
Additional powers of the Company
 
Appointment by Board
 
 
Position of retiring directors
 
 
No share qualification
 
 
ALTERNATE DIRECTORS
Power to appoint alternates
 
Alternates entitled to receive notice
 
Alternates representing more than one director
 
Termination of appointment
 
 
 
 
 
Method of appointment and revocation
 
Alternate not an agent of appointor
 
 
POWERS OF THE BOARD
Business to be managed by Board
 
Discretionary Matters
 
 
 
 
Exercise by Company of voting rights
 
DELEGATION OF POWERS OF THE BOARD
Committees of the Board
 
Agents
 
 
relevant committee determines, including without limitation authority for the agent to delegate all or any of his powers, authorities and discretions, and may revoke or vary such delegation.
Offices including the title "director"
 
Director's power to give effect to the DLC agreements
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISQUALIFICATION AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
Disqualification as a director
 
 
 
 
 
REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Ordinary remuneration
 
Additional remuneration for special services
 
DIRECTORS' EXPENSES
Directors may be paid expenses
 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Appointment to executive office
 
Termination of appointment to executive office
 
 
Emoluments to be determined by the Board
 
DIRECTORS' INTERESTS
Directors' power to authorise conflict situations
 
 
 
 
and the Company will not treat anything done, or omitted to be done, by the director concerned in accordance with the Conflict Authorisation Terms as a breach of duty under the following sections of the 2006 Act: section 172 (duty to promote the success of the company), section 173 (duty to exercise independent judgement) and section 174 (duty to exercise reasonable care, skill and diligence). The Company will not treat the receipt by the director concerned of any benefit that he is permitted to receive by the Conflict Authorisation Terms as a breach of duty under section 176 of the 2006 Act (duty not to accept benefits from third parties). The director concerned shall comply with all Conflict Authorisation Terms.
Directors may contract with the Company
 
 
 
 
 
Notification of interests
 
 
 
GRATUITIES, PENSIONS AND INSURANCE
Gratuities and pensions
 
 
Directors not liable to account
 
Provision for employees
 
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD
Convening meetings
 
 
directors may, and the secretary at the request of the Chairman or any two directors shall, call a meeting of the Board. Notice of a Board meeting shall be deemed to be properly sent to a director if it is sent to him personally or by word of mouth or sent in writing to him, at his last known address (whether within or outside the United Kingdom) or such other address (if any) as may for the time being be notified by him or on his behalf to the Company for that purpose. Questions arising at a meeting shall be decided by a majority of directors present at any meeting (provided that the meeting is quorate). Any director may waive notice of a meeting and any such waiver may be retrospective.
Quorum
 
Powers of directors if number falls below minimum
 
Chairman and deputy chairman
 
Validity of acts of the Board
 
Resolutions in writing
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meetings by telephone, etc.
 
Directors' power to vote on contracts in which they are interested
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interests of connected person and alternate director
 
Division of proposals
 
SECRETARY
Appointment and removal of secretary
 
MINUTES
Minutes required to be kept
 
 
 
Conclusiveness of minutes
 
THE SEAL
Authority required for execution of deed
 
 
Certificates for shares and debentures
 
Official seal for use abroad
 
REGISTERS
Overseas and local registers
 
 
Authentication and certification of copies and extracts
 
 
 
 
if certified in this way, a document purporting to be a copy of a resolution, or the minutes or an extract from the minutes of a meeting of the Company, the holders of any class of shares in the capital of the Company, the Board or a committee of the Board, whether in hard copy form or in electronic form, shall be conclusive evidence in favour of all persons dealing with the Company in reliance on it or them that the resolution was duly passed or that the minutes are, or the extract from the minutes is, a true and accurate record of proceedings at a duly constituted meeting.
DIVIDENDS
Declaration of dividends
 
 
 
 
Interim dividends
 
Apportionment of dividends
 
Exchange rate dividend calculation
 
Ranking of shares for dividends
 
 
 
Matching cash dividends or distributions of an income nature
 
 
Ratio in effect on the Distribution Determination Date for such Distributions (each, an "Equivalent Distribution").
 
 
Timing of dividends and distributions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividends in specie
 
 
Scrip dividends: authorising resolution
 
Scrip dividends: procedures
 
 
 
 
 
but shall never be less than the par value of the new share. A certificate or report by the auditors as to the value of a new share in respect of any dividend shall be conclusive evidence of that value.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Permitted deductions and retentions
 
Procedure for payment to holders and others entitled
 
 
 
 
 
Joint entitlement
 
 
 
 
Payment by post
 
 
 
 
 
Discharge to Company and risk
 
Interest not payable
 
Forfeiture of unclaimed dividends
 
CAPITALISATION OF PROFITS AND RESERVES
Power to capitalise
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any agreement made under that authority shall be binding on all such members; and
 
RECORD DATES
Record dates for dividends, etc.
 
 
 
 
 
the register at the close of business on a day determined by the Company or the Board, which day may not be more than 21 days before the day that notices of the meeting are sent.
ACCOUNTS
Rights to inspect records
 
Sending of annual accounts
 
Summary financial statements
 
COMMUNICATIONS
Notice to be in writing
 
Communications to and from members
 
 
 
 
 
Notice to joint holders
 
Registered address outside United Kingdom
 
Notice to persons entitled by transmission
 
 
 
Any notice, document or information so sent or supplied shall for all purposes be deemed to be duly sent or supplied to all persons interested (whether jointly with or as claiming through or under him) in the share.
Until the information required under paragraphs (a) and (b) above has been so supplied, any notice, document or information may be given in any manner in which it might have been given if the death or bankruptcy or other event giving rise to the transmission had not occurred. This Article shall have effect in place of the Company Communication Provisions regarding death or bankruptcy of a holder of shares in the Company.
Transferees etc. bound by prior notice
 
 
title, provided that no person who becomes entitled by transmission to a share shall be bound by any Disclosure Notice issued under Article 154 to a person from whom he derives his title.
Evidence of receipt
 
 
Notice during disruption of postal services
 
 
 
 
 
 
DESTRUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
Power of Company to destroy documents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presumption in relation to destroyed documents
 
 
 
 
 
but:
 
 
 
 
UNTRACED SHAREHOLDERS
Power to dispose of shares of untraced shareholders
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer on sale
 
 
 
Effectiveness of transfer
 
Proceeds of sale
 
 
LIQUIDATION
 
Liquidation Procedure
 
 
Liquidation actions
 
 
 
 
provided that any action other than a payment of cash by one company to the other shall require the prior approval of the Board and the Board of Carnival.
 
Disposal of assets by liquidator
 
SHARE CONTROL LIMIT
Trigger of limit
 
Qualifying Takeover Offer
 
 
 
then the Acquiring Person Attributable Shares shall not be designated Combined Group Restricted Shares for the purposes of Articles 278 to 287 hereof until the earliest to occur (if at all) of (x) a withdrawal, abandonment or termination of such Qualifying Takeover Offer other than in accordance with its terms, or (y) any amendment, modification or supplement to the terms of either offer constituting the Qualifying Takeover Offer such that, as amended, modified or supplemented, the offers would not constitute a Qualifying Takeover Offer; provided that immediately upon the earliest to occur of the events described in (x) or (y) above, such Acquiring Person Attributable Shares shall be automatically designated as Combined Group Restricted Shares.
Determination of Combined Group Excess Shares
 
 
 
automatically be designated as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Articles 286 and 287;
 
 
 
 
 
 
then such automatic designation as Combined Group Excess Shares for the purposes of Articles 286 and 287 shall be made with respect to the same number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares held by or subject to the voting control of such persons Acting in Concert as if they had been held by or subject to the voting control of a single person, such designation to be made on a pro rata basis based on the number of P&O Princess Ordinary Shares each such person holds or over which each such person exercises voting control.
Authority of the Board
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notice
 
 
Exclusions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMBINED GROUP EXCESS SHARES
 
Ownership in trust
 
Dividend rights
 
Rights upon Liquidation
 
 
and expenses incurred by the Company, the Combined Group Excess Share Trustee or the Charitable Beneficiary in respect of the transfer or holding of such shares.
Voting rights
 
Restrictions on transfer; Designation of Combined Group Excess Share Trust Beneficiary
 
Purchase rights in relation to Combined Group Excess Shares
 
Underwritten offerings
 
 
VOTING CONTROL
 
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE
Indemnity and Insurance
 
 
 
In this article "qualifying third party indemnity provision", "qualifying pension scheme provision" and "associated company" have meanings that they have in Part 10 of the 2006 Act.
MANDATORY EXCHANGE
 
 
 
provided always that Carnival shall be able to choose whether to apply the procedure referred to in (a) or (b) above, shall not be obliged to give any reasons for such choice and such choice shall be conclusive and binding on all persons concerned and shall not be open to challenge on any grounds whatsoever.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


