FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20090324092521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) March 24, 2009
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
 
Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
(17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 24, 2009 Carnival Corporation & plc issued a press release entitled "Carnival Corporation & plc Reports First Quarter Earnings." A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release, dated March 24, 2009 (furnished
pursuant to Item 2.02).
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
MIAMI (March 24, 2009)  Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) reported net income of $260 million, or $0.33 diluted EPS, on revenues of $2.9 billion for its first quarter ended February 28, 2009. Net income for the first quarter of 2008 was $236 million, or $0.30 diluted EPS, on revenues of $3.2 billion.
Carnival Corporation & plc Chairman and CEO Micky Arison indicated that operating results in the first quarter were better than the company's December guidance due primarily to lower than expected net cruise costs and stronger than expected net revenue yields on close-in bookings.
Commenting on first quarter results, Arison said that "considering the economic climate, achieving higher quarterly net income is quite remarkable. The effect of lower revenue yields resulting from the pull back by the consumer was offset by the fall in fuel prices from prior year levels. Our continued focus on cost controls also played a meaningful role in our ability to achieve such positive results."
Key metrics for the first quarter of 2009 compared to the prior year were as follows:
2009 Outlook
Since the start of the calendar year, booking volumes for the remaining three quarters are running 10 percent ahead of the prior year but at significantly lower prices. At this time, cumulative advance bookings for the remainder of the year are still behind last year's levels as the booking curve has moved closer to sailing date. Ticket prices for these bookings are also at substantially lower levels.
Arison noted "it has been a solid wave season thus far, despite the challenging economic environment, with several of our brands achieving record booking volumes. As we had anticipated, people continue to book cruise vacations while seeking the best possible value. Our brands have responded with a variety of pricing initiatives designed to provide our guests with the most value for their vacation dollars. Though pricing is down significantly we continue to fill our ships by reaching people who might not have otherwise considered a cruise vacation."
"As we look forward in 2009, we remain confident that the fundamental long-term drivers of our business remain intact. To enable us to overcome challenges in these difficult times, we have focused on maintaining tight cost controls and a strong liquidity position. The discipline instilled in our cost conscious culture is a particular advantage as our cost containment initiatives continue to mitigate the pressure on revenue yields," Arison added.
Carnival has sixteen ships under construction to be delivered through 2012 at a cost of $9 billion, the majority of which is expected to be funded by cash from operations. Cash from operations, committed financing facilities and available cash are forecasted to be sufficient to fund the company's cash requirements for 2009. Although the company will not need to obtain new financing for 2009, it will continue to look for low cost opportunities to enhance its liquidity. At the end of the first quarter the company had $3.7 billion of liquidity, which includes $1.8 billion of available cash and undrawn credit lines, as well as $1.9 billion of committed ship financing facilities. In addition, Carnival continues to have the highest credit rating in the leisure industry.
The company expects full year net revenue yields, on a constant dollar basis, to decrease 10 to 12 percent compared to 6 to 10 percent in the company's December guidance as a result of the further deterioration in the U.S. and European economies. The company now forecasts a 16 to 18 percent decline in net revenue yields on a current dollar basis for the full year 2009 compared to 2008 caused by the weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar.
The company expects net cruise costs excluding fuel for the full year 2009 to be in line with the prior year on a constant dollar basis compared to an increase of 2 percent in its December guidance.
Since the December guidance, the movement in currency exchange rates has largely been offset by the continued decline in fuel prices. The company's revised 2009 guidance is based on current spot prices for fuel of $280 per metric ton and currency exchange rates of $1.36 to the euro and $1.44 to sterling.
Taking all the above factors into consideration, the company now forecasts full year 2009 earnings per share to be in the range of $2.10 to $2.30, compared to its previous guidance range of $2.25 to $2.75.
Second Quarter 2009
Second quarter constant dollar net revenue yields are expected to decline in the 8 to 10 percent range (down 15 to 17 percent on a current dollar basis). Net cruise costs excluding fuel for the second quarter are expected to be approximately 4 percent higher on a constant dollar basis due in part to the timing of certain expenses, including advertising, dry-dock and repairs and maintenance.
Based on current fuel prices and currency exchange rates, the company expects earnings for the second quarter of 2009 to be in the range of $0.30 to $0.32 per share, down from $0.49 per share in 2008.
During the second quarter three new ships will debut in Europe- AIDA Cruises' 2,050-passenger AIDAluna and Costa Cruises' 2,260-passenger Costa Luminosa and the 2,990-passenger Costa Pacifica.
Selected Key Forecast Metrics
 
 
The company has scheduled a conference call with analysts at 10:00 a.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. GMT) today to discuss its 2009 first quarter earnings. This call can be listened to live, and additional information can be obtained, via Carnival Corporation & plc's Web site at and .
www.carnivalcorp.com
www.carnivalplc.com
Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise vacation group in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe and Australia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, The Yachts of Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Ibero Cruises, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia.
Together, these brands operate 89 ships totaling more than 171,000 lower berths with 16 new ships scheduled to be delivered between April 2009 and June 2012. Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, the leading tour companies in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results
Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this earnings release are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like "will," "may," "could," "should," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "forecast," "future," "intend," "plan," "estimate" and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plc's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this earnings release. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact the forecasting of Carnival Corporation and plc's earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel expenses, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, liquidity, goodwill and trademark fair values, outlook or business prospects. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions, including fuel price increases and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, and perceptions of these conditions may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plc's potential vacationers' discretionary income and net worth and this group's confidence in their country's economy; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and sterling; the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist and pirate attacks and threats thereof, and other world events affecting the safety and security of travel; conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, including competition from other cruise ship operators and providers of other vacation alternatives and overcapacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation alternatives; accidents, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents (including machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof) which could cause injury or death or the alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises or tours, and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plc's guests; changing consumer preferences; changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, security, tax, employment and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate; increases in global fuel demand and pricing, fuel supply disruptions and/or other events on Carnival Corporation & plc fuel and other expenses, liquidity and credit ratings; increases in Carnival Corporation plc's future fuel expenses of implementing recently approved International Maritime Organization regulations, which require the use of higher priced low sulfur fuels in certain cruising areas; changes in operating and financing costs, including changes in interest rates, food, insurance, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs and ship refurbishments and repairs, including ordering additional ships for its cruise brands from European shipyards on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plc's expectations and continuing financial viability of shipyards; Carnival Corporation & plc's ability to implement its brand strategies and to continue to operate and expand its business internationally; whether Carnival Corporation & plc's future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations and whether Carnival Corporation & plc will be able to obtain financing, if necessary, in sufficient amounts and on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plc's ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plc's travel agent distribution system and air service providers; availability and pricing of air travel services, especially as a result of any significant increases in air travel costs; changes in the global credit markets on Carnival Corporation & plc's counterparty risks, including those associated with its cash equivalents, committed financing facilities, contingent obligations, derivative instruments, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees; Carnival Corporation & plc decision to self-insure against various risks or its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other damages to Carnival Corporation & plc's information technology networks; lack of continued availability of attractive port destinations; and risks associated with the dual listed company structure, including the uncertainty of its tax status. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this release, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
Gross and net cruise costs per ALBD were computed by dividing the gross or net cruise costs, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


