FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20090618092144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) June 18, 2009
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
 
Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 18, 2009 Carnival Corporation & plc issued a press release entitled "Carnival Corporation & plc Reports Second Quarter Earnings." A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release, dated June 18, 2009 (furnished
pursuant to Item 2.02).
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MIAMI (June 18, 2009)  Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) reported net income of $264 million, or $0.33 diluted EPS, on revenues of $2.9 billion for its second quarter ended May 31, 2009. Net income for the second quarter of 2008 was $390 million, or $0.49 diluted EPS, on revenues of $3.4 billion.
Carnival Corporation & plc Chairman and CEO Micky Arison indicated that operating results in the second quarter were better than the company's March guidance due primarily to lower than expected net cruise costs and better than expected pricing on close-in bookings. This was partially offset by higher fuel prices and the impact from disruptions of its Mexican cruises in response to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommendations against non-essential travel to Mexico which reduced second quarter earnings by approximately $0.03 per share.
Commenting on second quarter results, Arison said, "We were pleased with the quarterly operating results in light of the current economic environment. During the quarter, our operating companies remained focused on reducing costs which is expected to continue through the remainder of the year." A variety of energy conservation programs resulted in a six percent reduction in fuel consumption during the quarter which helped to mitigate some of the recent fuel price increases.
Key metrics for the second quarter of 2009 compared to the prior year were as follows:
"During the quarter, we also made great strides on our strategic initiatives to better position the company for the future," Arison said. Carnival continued to expand its global presence in the second quarter through the deployment of a second vessel to its emerging brand in China, and the successful delivery of three new vessels for its European brands  AIDA Cruises' 2,050-passenger AIDAluna and Costa Cruises' 2,260-passenger Costa Luminosa and 2,990-passenger Costa Pacifica.
The company also entered into $1.7 billion of financing since the first quarter, including a 550m loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB), to help finance Costa's newbuilding program. This is the first time the EIB has provided capital to the cruise sector.
"Since the start of the year we have completed more than $2.8 billion in financing at very favorable rates, which clearly demonstrates our ability to access capital in very difficult credit markets," Arison said.
2009 Outlook
Since March, booking volumes for the second half of 2009 are running 26 percent ahead of the prior year. Although booking levels for the remainder of the year are still behind, the higher booking volumes have enabled the company to close the gap to approximately three percentage points from last year's levels. However, ticket prices for these bookings are at substantially lower levels.
Arison noted, "As we have progressed throughout the year, booking volumes have continued to accelerate with less discounting, as consumers have come to recognize the extraordinary value proposition our cruise vacations represent."
The company continues to expect full year net revenue yields, on a constant dollar basis, to decrease 10 to 12 percent. The company now forecasts a 14 to 16 percent decline in net revenue yields on a current dollar basis for the full year 2009 compared to 2008 caused by unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates. Although the company has experienced pricing pressure on net revenue yields for its Mexican deployments in the wake of the CDC's travel advisory, it has been more than offset by improved expectations for its broader deployments worldwide.
The company continues to expect net cruise costs excluding fuel for the full year 2009 to be in line with the prior year on a constant dollar basis. However, based on current spot prices for fuel, forecasted fuel costs for the full year have increased $233 million, or $0.29 per share, since the previous guidance. This has been partially offset by favorable changes in currency exchange rates of $0.06 per share. The company's revised 2009 guidance is based on current spot prices for fuel of $416 per metric ton and currency exchange rates of $1.39 to the euro and $1.61 to sterling.
Taking all the above factors into consideration, the company now forecasts full year 2009 earnings per share to be in the range of $2.00 to $2.10, compared to its previous guidance range of $2.10 to $2.30.
"Higher forecasted fuel prices and the impact of the CDC travel advisory have reduced 2009 earnings by approximately $0.40 per share, but the midpoint of our guidance was reduced by only $0.15 per share as a result of strengthening yields in other deployments, favorable currency movements and lower costs," Arison said.
Third Quarter 2009
Third quarter constant dollar net revenue yields are expected to decline in the 14 to 16 percent range (down 19 to 21 percent on a current dollar basis). Net cruise costs excluding fuel for the third quarter are expected to be approximately 1 percent higher on a constant dollar basis. Excluding the impact of the $26 million insurance settlement received in the 2008 third quarter, net cruise costs excluding fuel are expected to be down 1 percent on a constant dollar basis.
Based on current fuel prices and currency exchange rates, the company expects earnings for the third quarter of 2009 to be in the range of $1.15 to $1.19 per share, down from $1.65 per share in 2008.
During the third quarter the company will take delivery of the first of a new class of vessel for The Yachts of Seabourn, the 450-passenger Seabourn Odyssey which will debut in Europe.
Selected Key Forecast Metrics
 
 
The company has scheduled a conference call with analysts at 10:00 a.m. EDT (3:00 p.m. BST) today to discuss its 2009 second quarter earnings. This call can be listened to live, and additional information can be obtained, via Carnival Corporation & plc's Web site at and .
www.carnivalcorp.com
www.carnivalplc.com
Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise vacation group in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe and Australia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, The Yachts of Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Ibero Cruises, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia.
Together, these brands operate 91 ships totaling approximately 176,000 lower berths with 14 new ships scheduled to be delivered between now and June 2012. Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Tours and Princess Tours, the leading tour companies in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results
Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this earnings release are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like "will," "may," "could," "should," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "forecast," "future," "intend," "plan," "estimate" and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plc's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this earnings release. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact, among other things, the forecasting of Carnival Corporation and plc's earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and/or tax costs, fuel expenses, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, liquidity, goodwill and trademark fair values, outlook or business prospects. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions, including fuel price increases, high unemployment rates, and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, and perceptions of these conditions may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plc's potential vacationers' discretionary income and net worth and this group's confidence in their country's economy; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and sterling; the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist and pirate attacks and threats thereof, and other world events affecting the safety and security of travel; conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, including competition from other cruise ship operators and providers of other vacation alternatives and overcapacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation alternatives; accidents, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents (including machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof) which could cause, among other things, port closures or injury or death or the alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises or tours, and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plc's guests; changing consumer preferences; changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to employment, environmental, health, safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate; increases in global fuel demand and pricing, fuel supply disruptions and/or other events on Carnival Corporation & plc fuel and other expenses, liquidity and credit ratings; increases in Carnival Corporation plc's future fuel expenses of implementing approved International Maritime Organization regulations, which require the use of higher priced low sulfur fuels in certain cruising areas; changes in operating and financing costs, including changes in interest rates, food, insurance, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs and ship maintenance, repairs and refurbishments, including ordering additional ships for its cruise brands from European shipyards on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plc's expectations; Carnival Corporation & plc's ability to implement its brand strategies and to continue to operate and expand its business internationally; whether Carnival Corporation & plc's future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations and whether Carnival Corporation & plc will be able to obtain financing, if necessary, in sufficient amounts and on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plc's ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plc's travel agent distribution system, air service providers and cruise shipyards and subcontractors; availability and pricing of air travel services, especially as a result of significant increases in air travel costs; changes in the global credit markets on Carnival Corporation & plc's counterparty risks, including those associated with its cash equivalents, committed financing facilities, contingent obligations, derivative instruments, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees; Carnival Corporation & plc decision to self-insure against various risks or its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other damages to Carnival Corporation & plc's information technology networks; lack of continued availability of attractive, convenient and safe port destinations; and risks associated with the dual listed company structure, including the uncertainty of its tax status. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this release, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
 
Gross and net cruise costs per ALBD were computed by dividing the gross or net cruise costs, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


