FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20100622091934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 22, 2010, Carnival Corporation & plc issued a press release entitled "Carnival Corporation & plc Reports Second Quarter Earnings." A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing.
Section 8  Other Events
.
Item 8.01 Other Events
In connection with the previously announced sales of up to 25 million ordinary shares of Carnival plc, Carnival Corporation & plc is filing certain "Additional Information" as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. This information shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is incorporated by reference into any filing of either Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc, whether made before or after the date of this report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press release, dated June 22, 2010 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
Exhibit 99.2 Additional Information, dated June 22, 2010 (filed pursuant to Item 8.01).
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
MIAMI (June 22, 2010)  Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) reported net income of $252 million, or $0.32 diluted EPS, on revenues of $3.2 billion for its second quarter ended May 31, 2010. Net income for the second quarter of 2009 was $264 million, or $0.33 diluted EPS, on revenues of $2.9 billion.
Carnival Corporation & plc Chairman and CEO Micky Arison indicated that operating results for the second quarter 2010 exceeded the company's March guidance as a result of better than expected net revenue yields and cost reductions.
Commenting on the second quarter, Arison said, "We were encouraged to see revenue yields turn positive for the first time since late 2008. Improving revenue yields combined with an 8 percent capacity increase and ongoing cost control efforts offset significantly higher fuel prices." Increased fuel prices negatively impacted earnings by $0.20 per share during the quarter.
Key metrics for the second quarter of 2010 compared to the prior year were as follows:
 
 
 
Continuing with its strategic growth initiatives, the company took delivery of two new ships during the second quarterP&O Cruises' 3,100-passenger Azura and The Yachts of Seabourn's 450-passenger Seabourn Sojourn. In addition, contracts were finalized with Fincantieri for the construction of two Princess Cruises' 3,600-passenger ships for delivery in May 2013 and 2014.
2010 Outlook
Since March, booking volumes for the second half of the year have been running slightly ahead of the prior year at higher prices. At this time, cumulative advance bookings for both quarters are at higher prices (constant dollars) with occupancies for the third quarter in line with the prior year and for the fourth quarter slightly behind last year.
Arison noted, "Considering recent global economic concerns and other world events our advance bookings are holding up reasonably well and remain in line with our expectations. We believe this will lead to earnings growth in both the third and fourth quarters. The summer season, which is our strongest and most important quarter of the year, is shaping up particularly well."
The company continues to expect full year net revenue yields, on a constant dollar basis, to increase 2 to 3 percent, in line with its March guidance. However, currency exchange rates have moved significantly since March guidance was provided. As a result, the company now expects net revenue yields on a current dollar basis to be approximately flat for the full year 2010 compared to 2009.
The company expects net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD for the full year 2010 to be down 2.5 to 3.5 percent on a constant dollar basis which is slightly better than its March guidance. Since March guidance, unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates have reduced earnings by $97 million. This has essentially been offset by a $41 million benefit from a decline in the spot price for fuel and lower forecasted costs for the remainder of the year.
Consequently, the company continues to forecast full year 2010 fully diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.35, compared to 2009 earnings of $2.24 per share. Based on the current spot price for fuel, fuel costs for all of 2010 are expected to increase $440 million compared to 2009, costing an additional $0.55 per share.
Third Quarter 2010
Third quarter constant dollar net revenue yields are expected to increase 5 to 6 percent (flat to up 1 percent on a current dollar basis) compared to the prior year. Net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD for the third quarter are expected to be 1 to 2 percent higher on a constant dollar basis (down 2 to 3 percent on a current dollar basis). Fuel costs for the third quarter are expected to increase $74 million compared to the prior year, costing an additional $0.09 per share.
Based on the above factors and using current fuel prices and currency exchange rates, the company expects earnings for the third quarter of 2010 to be in the range of $1.43 to $1.47 per share, compared to $1.33 per share in 2009.
During the second half of the year two new ships will debut in Europe- Holland America Line's 2,106-passenger Nieuw Amsterdam, and Cunard Line's 2,092-passenger Queen Elizabeth- furthering the company's strategy to expand its global presence. These vessels will be the fifth and sixth ships the company will introduce in 2010.
Selected Key Forecast Metrics
 
The company has scheduled a conference call with analysts at 10:00 a.m. EDT (3:00 p.m. BST) today to discuss its 2010 second quarter earnings. This call can be listened to live, and additional information can be obtained, via Carnival Corporation & plc's Web site at and .
www.carnivalcorp.com
www.carnivalplc.com
Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise vacation group in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe and Australia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, The Yachts of Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard Line, Ibero Cruises, Ocean Village, P&O Cruises and P&O Cruises Australia.
Together, these brands operate 96 ships totaling more than 187,000 lower berths with 11 new ships scheduled to be delivered between now and May 2014. Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, the leading tour company in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results
Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this earnings release are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like "will," "may," "could," "should," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "forecast," "future," "intend," "plan," "estimate" and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plc's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this earnings release. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact, among other things, the forecasting of Carnival Corporation & plc's earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and tax costs, fuel expenses, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, liquidity, goodwill and trademark fair values and outlook. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions, including fuel price increases, high unemployment rates, and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, and perceptions of these conditions, may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plc's potential vacationers' discretionary income and net worth and this group's confidence in their country's economy; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the movement of the U.S. dollar against the euro, sterling and the Australian and Canadian dollars; the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist and pirate attacks and threats thereof, and other world events affecting the safety and security of travel; competition from and overcapacity in both the cruise ship and land-based vacation industries; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plc's guests; changing consumer preferences; Carnival Corporation & plc's ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; accidents, the spread of contagious diseases and threats thereof, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanic ash, and other incidents (including, but not limited to, ship fires and machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof), which could cause, among other things, individual or multiple port closures, injury, death, damage to property and equipment, oil spills, alteration of cruise itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises or tours; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular, including any adverse impact that cruising may have on the marine environment; changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to the protection of disabled persons, employment, environmental, health, safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate; increases in global fuel demand and pricing, fuel supply disruptions and other events impacting on Carnival Corporation & plc's fuel and other expenses, liquidity and credit ratings; increases in Carnival Corporation & plc's future fuel expenses from implementing approved International Maritime Organization regulations, which require the use of higher priced low sulfur fuels in certain cruising areas, including the U.S. and Canadian Emissions Control Area, which will change the specification and increase the price of fuel that ships will be required to use within these areas; changes in financing and operating costs, including changes in interest rates and food, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs and ship maintenance, repairs and refurbishments, including ordering additional ships for its cruise brands from shipyards, on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plc's expectations; the continued strength of Carnival Corporation & plc's cruise brands and its ability to implement its brand strategies; additional risks associated with Carnival Corporation & plc's international operations not generally applicable to its U.S. operations; the pace of development in geographic regions in which Carnival Corporation & plc tries to expand its business; whether Carnival Corporation & plc's future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations and whether it will be able to obtain financing, if necessary, in sufficient amounts and on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plc counterparties' ability to perform; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plc's travel agent distribution system, air service providers and other key vendors and reductions in the availability of and increases in the pricing for the services and products provided by these vendors; Carnival Corporation & plc's decisions to self-insure against various risks or its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other damages to Carnival Corporation & plc's information technology networks and operations; lack of continuing availability of attractive, convenient and safe port destinations; and risks associated with the dual listed company structure. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this release, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
 
 
 
 
 
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
 
Gross and net cruise costs per ALBD were computed by dividing the gross or net cruise costs, without rounding, by ALBDs as follows:
 
 
Net revenue yields are commonly used in the cruise industry to measure a company's cruise segment revenue performance and for revenue management purposes. We use "net cruise revenues" rather than "gross cruise revenues" to calculate net revenue yields. We believe that net cruise revenues is a more meaningful measure in determining revenue yield than gross cruise revenues because it reflects the cruise revenues earned net of our most significant variable costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of air transportation and certain other variable direct costs associated with onboard and other revenues. Substantially all of our remaining cruise costs are largely fixed, except for the impact of changing prices, once our ship capacity levels have been determined.
Net cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD. We exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calculation of net cruise revenues to calculate net cruise costs to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two non-GAAP financial measures.
We have not provided estimates of future gross revenue yields or future gross cruise costs per ALBD because the reconciliations of forecasted net cruise revenues to forecasted gross cruise revenues or forecasted net cruise costs to forecasted cruise operating expenses would require us to forecast, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of air and other transportation costs that our forecasted cruise passengers would elect to purchase from us (the "air/sea mix"). Since the forecasting of future air/sea mix involves several significant variables that are relatively difficult to forecast and the revenues from the sale of air and other transportation approximate the costs of providing that transportation, management focuses primarily on forecasts of net cruise revenues and costs rather than gross cruise revenues and costs. This does not impact, in any material respect, our ability to forecast our future results, as any variation in the air/sea mix has no material impact on our forecasted net cruise revenues or forecasted net cruise costs. As such, management does not believe that this reconciling information would be meaningful.
In addition, because a significant portion of our operations utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and financial condition, the translation of those operations to our U.S. dollar reporting currency results in decreases in reported U.S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies and increases in reported U.S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U.S. dollar weakens against these foreign currencies. Accordingly, we also monitor and report our two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the 2010 periods' currency exchange rates have remained constant with the 2009 periods' rates, or on a "constant dollar basis," in order to remove the impact of changes in exchange rates on our non-U.S. dollar cruise operations. We believe that this is a useful measure since it facilitates a comparative view of the growth of our business in a fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
On a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net cruise costs would be $2.6 billion and $1.9 billion for the three months ended May 31, 2010 and $5.0 billion and $3.7 billion for the six months ended May 31, 2010, respectively. On a constant dollar basis, gross cruise revenues and gross cruise costs would be $3.1 billion and $2.4 billion for the three months ended May 31, 2010 and $6.1 billion and $4.8 billion for the six months ended May 31, 2010, respectively. In addition, our non-U.S. dollar cruise operations' depreciation and net interest expense were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for the three and six months ended May 31, 2010, compared to the prior year's comparable period.
 

Exhibit 99.2
On June 22, 2010, Carnival Corporation & plc reported net income of $252 million, or $0.32 diluted EPS, on revenues of $3.2 billion for its second quarter ended May 31, 2010. Net income for the second quarter of 2009 was $264 million, or $0.33 diluted EPS, on revenues of $2.9 billion. Higher fuel prices reduced earnings in the 2010 second quarter by $0.20 per share as compared to the prior year.
Key metrics for the second quarter of 2010 compared to the prior year were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Continuing with its strategic growth initiatives, the company took delivery of two new ships during the second quarterP&O Cruises' 3,100-passenger Azura and The Yachts of Seabourn's 450-passenger Seabourn Sojourn. In addition, contracts were finalized with Fincantieri for the construction of two Princess Cruises' 3,600-passenger ships for delivery in May 2013 and 2014.
2010 Outlook
As of June 22, 2010, the company expects fully diluted earnings per share for the third quarter and full year 2010 to be in the range of $1.43 to $1.47 and $2.25 to $2.35, respectively. Our guidance was based in part on the assumptions in the table below.
The above forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Various factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed above including, but not limited to, economic and business conditions, foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices, adverse weather conditions, spread of contagious diseases, regulatory changes, geopolitical and other factors that could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses. You should read the following forward-looking statement together with the discussion of these and other risks under "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results."
"
Stock Swap" Programs
We use the "Stock Swap" programs in situations where we can obtain an economic benefit because either Carnival Corporation common stock or Carnival plc ordinary shares are trading at a price that is at a premium or discount to the price of Carnival plc ordinary shares or Carnival Corporation common stock, as the case may be.
In the event Carnival Corporation common stock trades at a premium to Carnival plc ordinary shares, we may elect to issue and sell Carnival Corporation common stock through an "At The Market" equity offering ("ATM Offering") with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") as sales agent, and use the sale proceeds to repurchase Carnival plc ordinary shares in the UK market on at least an equivalent basis, with the remaining net proceeds used for general corporate purposes. In the ATM Offering, Carnival Corporation may issue and sell up to 19.2 million of its common stock in the U.S. market, which shares are to be sold from time to time at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers' transactions by Merrill Lynch. Any sales of Carnival Corporation shares have been and will be registered under the Securities Act.
In the event Carnival Corporation common stock trades at a discount to Carnival plc ordinary shares, we may elect to sell existing ordinary shares of Carnival plc, with such sales made by Carnival Investments Limited, a subsidiary of Carnival Corporation, and with Merrill Lynch International ("MLI") as sales agent, from time to time in "at the market" transactions, and use the sale proceeds to repurchase Carnival Corporation common stock in the U.S. market on at least an equivalent basis, with the remaining net proceeds used for general corporate purposes. In the offering, Carnival Investments Limited may sell up to 25 million Carnival plc ordinary shares in the UK market, which shares are to be sold from time to time at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers' transactions by MLI. Any sales of Carnival plc shares have been and will be registered under the Securities Act.
Under the "Stock Swap" program from December 1, 2009 through May 31, 2010, Carnival Investments Limited sold 8.1 million Carnival plc ordinary shares, at an average price of $39.48 per share for gross proceeds of $319 million and paid MLI and others fees of $2 million and $123 thousand, respectively, for total net proceeds of $317 million. Substantially all of the net proceeds of these sales were used to purchase 8.1 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock. During the six months ended May 31, 2010, no Carnival Corporation common stock was sold under the "Stock Swap" program.
The purchases of Carnival Corporation common stock during the three months ended May 31, 2010 pursuant to the "Stock Swap" program were as follows:
 
During the quarter ended May 31, 2010, there were no stock repurchases of Carnival Corporation common stock or Carnival plc ordinary shares under the general stock repurchase authorization and no repurchases of Carnival plc ordinary shares under the "Stock Swap" program repurchase authorization.
Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results
Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this Additional Information are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to Carnival Corporation & plc, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like "will," "may," "could," "should," "would," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "forecast," "future," "intend," "plan," "estimate" and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause Carnival Corporation & plc's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this Additional Information. Forward-looking statements include those statements which may impact, among other things, the forecasting of Carnival Corporation & plc's earnings per share, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, financing and tax costs, fuel expenses, costs per available lower berth day, estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values, liquidity, goodwill and trademark fair values and outlook. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions, including fuel price increases, high unemployment rates, and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, and perceptions of these conditions, may adversely impact the levels of Carnival Corporation & plc's potential vacationers' discretionary income and net worth and this group's confidence in their country's economy; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the movement of the U.S. dollar against the euro, sterling and the Australian and Canadian dollars; the international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist and pirate attacks and threats thereof, and other world events affecting the safety and security of travel; competition from and overcapacity in both the cruise ship and land-based vacation industries; lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and services by Carnival Corporation & plc's guests; changing consumer preferences; Carnival Corporation & plc's ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew and maintain good relations with employee unions; accidents, the spread of contagious diseases and threats thereof, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanic ash, and other incidents (including, but not limited to, ship fires and machinery and equipment failures or improper operation thereof), which could cause, among other things, individual or multiple port closures, injury, death, damage to property and equipment, oil spills, alteration of cruise itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises or tours; adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in general, or Carnival Corporation & plc in particular, including any adverse impact that cruising may have on the marine environment; changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to the protection of disabled persons, employment, environmental, health, safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under which Carnival Corporation & plc operate; increases in global fuel demand and pricing, fuel supply disruptions and other events impacting on Carnival Corporation & plc's fuel and other expenses, liquidity and credit ratings; increases in Carnival Corporation & plc's future fuel expenses from implementing approved International Maritime Organization regulations, which require the use of higher priced low sulfur fuels in certain cruising areas, including the U.S. and Canadian Emissions Control Area, which will change the specification and increase the price of fuel that ships will be required to use within these areas; changes in financing and operating costs, including changes in interest rates and food, payroll and security costs; the ability of Carnival Corporation & plc to implement its shipbuilding programs and ship maintenance, repairs and refurbishments, including ordering additional ships for its cruise brands from shipyards, on terms that are favorable or consistent with Carnival Corporation & plc's expectations; the continued strength of Carnival Corporation & plc's cruise brands and its ability to implement its brand strategies; additional risks associated with Carnival Corporation & plc's international operations not generally applicable to its U.S. operations; the pace of development in geographic regions in which Carnival Corporation & plc tries to expand its business; whether Carnival Corporation & plc's future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund future obligations and whether it will be able to obtain financing, if necessary, in sufficient amounts and on terms that are favorable or consistent with its expectations; Carnival Corporation & plc counterparties' ability to perform; continuing financial viability of Carnival Corporation & plc's travel agent distribution system, air service providers and other key vendors and reductions in the availability of and increases in the pricing for the services and products provided by these vendors; Carnival Corporation & plc's decisions to self-insure against various risks or its inability to obtain insurance for certain risks at reasonable rates; disruptions and other damages to Carnival Corporation & plc's information technology networks and operations; lack of continuing availability of attractive, convenient and safe port destinations; and risks associated with the dual listed company structure. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, Carnival Corporation & plc expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this Additional Information, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
 
 
 
 
Gross and net revenue yields were computed by dividing the gross or net revenues, without rounding, by ALBDs as
follows:
 
Gross and net cruise costs per ALBD were computed by dividing the gross or net cruise costs, without rounding, by
ALBDs as follows:
 
 
 
Net revenue yields are commonly used in the cruise industry to measure a company's cruise segment revenue performance and for revenue management purposes. We use "net cruise revenues" rather than "gross cruise revenues" to calculate net revenue yields. We believe that net cruise revenues is a more meaningful measure in determining revenue yield than gross cruise revenues because it reflects the cruise revenues earned net of our most significant variable costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of air transportation and certain other variable direct costs associated with onboard and other revenues. Substantially all of our remaining cruise costs are largely fixed, except for the impact of changing prices, once our ship capacity levels have been determined.
Net cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD. We exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calculation of net cruise revenues to calculate net cruise costs to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two non-GAAP financial measures.
We have not provided estimates of future gross revenue yields or future gross cruise costs per ALBD because the reconciliations of forecasted net cruise revenues to forecasted gross cruise revenues or forecasted net cruise costs to forecasted cruise operating expenses would require us to forecast, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of air and other transportation costs that our forecasted cruise passengers would elect to purchase from us (the "air/sea mix"). Since the forecasting of future air/sea mix involves several significant variables that are relatively difficult to forecast and the revenues from the sale of air and other transportation approximate the costs of providing that transportation, management focuses primarily on forecasts of net cruise revenues and costs rather than gross cruise revenues and costs. This does not impact, in any material respect, our ability to forecast our future results, as any variation in the air/sea mix has no material impact on our forecasted net cruise revenues or forecasted net cruise costs. As such, management does not believe that this reconciling information would be meaningful.
In addition, because a significant portion of our operations utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and financial condition, the translation of those operations to our U.S. dollar reporting currency results in decreases in reported U.S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies and increases in reported U.S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U.S. dollar weakens against these foreign currencies. Accordingly, we also monitor and report our two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the 2010 periods' currency exchange rates have remained constant with the 2009 periods' rates, or on a "constant dollar basis," in order to remove the impact of changes in exchange rates on our non-U.S. dollar cruise operations. We believe that this is a useful measure since it facilitates a comparative view of the growth of our business in a fluctuating currency exchange rate environment. In addition, our non-U.S. dollar cruise operations' depreciation and net interest expense were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for the three and six months ended May 31, 2010, compared to the prior year's comparable period.
 


