FILE:CCL/CCL-8K-20120427092144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management.
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)        On April 23, 2012, Pier Luigi Foschi, a named executive officer of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc (together, the Companies)  notified the Companies that he will be resigning as the Chief Executive Officer of Carnival plcs subsidiary, Costa Crociere S.p.A., effective July 1, 2012.  On April 23, 2012, the Companies issued a press release announcing Mr. Foschis resignation, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
MIAMI, April 23, 2012  /PRNewswire/ Carnival Corporation & plc (NYSE/LSE: CCL; NYSE: CUK) and its subsidiary Costa Crociere have announced that Pier Luigi Foschi will retire as the cruise operators chief executive officer effective July 1, 2012.
 
Foschi, 65, will remain as chairman and a managing director of the Costa group and remain on the board of directors of Carnival Corporation & plc.
 
Michael Thamm, currently serving as president of Germany-based AIDA Cruises, has been appointed CEO of the Costa group, which includes Costa Cruises and AIDA Cruises, as well as Spanish cruise operator Ibero Cruises.  Thamm will also serve on Costa's board of directors.  Thamm will relocate to Genoa, Italy, and in his new role will report to Costas board of directors, which includes Micky Arison and Howard Frank, Carnival Corporation & plcs chairman and CEO, and vice chairman and chief operating officer, respectively.
 
The moves are part of a long-term succession plan which included the scheduled retirement of Foschi once he reached the age of 65.
 
Longtime AIDA senior executive Michael Ungerer has been named AIDA Cruises president and Gianni Onorato will continue in his role as president of the Costa Cruises brand. 
 
Foschi joined Costa Crociere in 1997 and was elected chairman of the board in 2000. Over the past 15 years, Foschi has played an integral role in the companys tremendous growth and success while building upon its distinction as Europes number one cruise operator.  In his role as Costas chairman, Foschi will continue to oversee the companys government relations, matters related to the Costa Concordia accident and spearhead a number of strategic projects.
 
Pier has made it known for some time that he intended to retire once he turned 65 and todays announcement is part of our longtime succession plan that allows us to tap into our talented management team to find qualified individuals to oversee our brands, Arison said. Pier has developed Costa into a very successful and profitable organization and we wish to thank him for his many years of dedicated service.  At the same time, Michael has done a superb job managing AIDA Cruises and we have every confidence that Michael will continue these efforts at the helm of Costa, Arison added.
 
All of the various appointments are subject to approval by Costas board. 
 
Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise company in the world, with a portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe, Australia and Asia, comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard, Ibero Cruises, P&O Cruises (Australia) and P&O Cruises (UK).  
 
Together, these brands operate 98 ships totaling 195,000 lower berths with 10 new ships scheduled to enter service between May 2012 and March 2016.  Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, the leading tour company in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon. Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.    
 
MEDIA CONTACT, US/UK,
Jennifer de la Cruz, +1 305 599 2600, ext. 16000, or
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT, US/UK,
Beth Roberts, +
1 305 406 4832,
both of Carnival Corporation & plc


