ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements for Eastman Chemical Company (Eastman or the Company), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. All references to earnings per share contained in this report are diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Companys management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, impaired assets, restructuring of operations, environmental costs, pensions and other postemployment benefits, goodwill and intangible assets, and litigation and contingencies. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Companys management believes the critical accounting policies described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Companys financial condition and results. The policies require managements more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Customer Programs and Incentives The Company records estimated obligations for customer programs and incentive offerings, which consist primarily of revenue or volume based amounts that a customer must achieve over a specified period of time, as a reduction of revenue to each underlying revenue transaction as the customer progresses toward reaching goals specified in incentive agreements. These estimates are based on a combination of forecast of customer sales and actual sales volumes and revenues against established goals, the customers current level of purchases, and Eastmans knowledge of customer purchasing habits and industry pricing practice. The incentive payment rate may be variable, based upon the customer reaching higher sales volume or revenue levels over a specified period of time in order to receive an agreed upon incentive payment. The Companys reserve for customer programs and incentives was $50 million, $44 million, and $49 million at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of trade receivables. If market conditions change, the Company may take actions to adjust customer incentive offerings to maintain market share and capacity utilization. Allowances for Doubtful Accounts The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Management continuously assesses the financial condition of the Companys customers and the markets in which these customers participate and adjusts credit limits or the allowance for doubtful accounts based on this periodic review. Actual losses for uncollectible accounts have historically been consistent with the Companys estimates. However, deteriorating financial conditions of certain key customers or a significant continued slow down in the economy could have a material negative impact on the Companys ability to collect on accounts, in which case additional allowances may be required. The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts was $32 million, $35 million, and $16 million at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Further information is provided in Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. In response to economic developments in Argentina in late 2001, management established a reserve for credit risks related to devaluation of the peso. At December 31, 2001, the reserve was established at $18 million and at December 31, 2002, $3 million remained in the reserve. Management believes the reserve balance at December 31, 2002 adequately reflects the Companys potential losses. 35 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Inventory Reserves Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company determines the cost of most raw materials, work in process, and finished goods inventories in the United States of America by the last in, first out (LIFO) method. At December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 the Company had $273 million, $288 million, and $275 million, respectively, recorded in the LIFO reserve. The cost of all other inventories, including inventories outside the United States of America, is determined by the average cost method, which approximates the first in, first out method. The Company regularly compares inventory quantities on hand against anticipated future requirements to identify and evaluate inventory items for obsolescence and excessive quantities. Several factors, such as decisions to exit product lines, technological changes, changes in customer requirements, and new product development, could result in a change in the amount of obsolete or excess inventory quantities on hand. Additionally, estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case excess and obsolete inventory provisions may be understated or overstated. The Company writes down its inventories for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. The Companys reserve for excess and obsolete inventories was $5 million at December 31, 2002, and $2 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000. Impaired Assets The Company evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used, including definite lived intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of a long lived asset is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from such asset are separately identifiable and are less than its carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long lived asset. Fair value is determined primarily using the projected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. Losses on long lived assets to be disposed of are determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced for disposal costs. As the Companys assumptions related to assets to be held and used are subject to change, additional write downs may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are revised, the carrying amount of the related asset is adjusted, resulting in recognition of a charge or benefit to earnings. Restructuring of Operations The Company records restructuring charges incurred in connection with consolidation or relocation of operations, exited business lines, or shutdowns of specific sites. These restructuring charges, which reflect managements commitment to a termination or exit plan that generally will begin and will be substantially completed within 12 months, are based on estimates of the expected costs associated with site closure, legal and environmental matters, demolition, contract terminations, or other costs directly related to the restructuring. If the actual cost incurred exceeds the estimated cost, an additional charge to earnings will result. If the actual cost is less than the estimated cost, a credit to earnings will be recognized. At December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, the Companys reserve for restructuring of operations, including severance and site closure costs, was $9 million, $23 million, and $10 million, respectively. For additional information see Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. The amount accrued reflects the Companys assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental contingencies ranged from the minimum or best estimate of $97 million to the maximum of $111 million at December 31, 2002. The Companys reserve for environmental contingencies was $60 million, $54 million, and $49 million at December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for closure/postclosure, costs accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives. For additional information see Note 11 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. 36 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits The Company maintains defined benefit plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. Additionally, Eastman provides life insurance and health care benefits for eligible retirees and health care benefits for retirees eligible survivors. The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect the Companys assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase for employees and health care cost trends. At December 31, 2002, the Company assumed a discount rate of 6.75%; an expected return on assets of 9.0%; a rate of compensation increase of 4.0%; and an initial health care cost trend of 10%. The cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover and plan participation. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the cost of providing these benefits could increase or decrease. For example, a 1% increase in health care cost trend would increase the 2002 service and interest costs by $3 million, and the 2002 benefit obligation by $40 million. A 1% decrease in health care cost trend would decrease the 2002 service and interest costs by $3 million, and the 2002 benefit obligation by $34 million. For additional information see Note 9 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Prior to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the Company amortized certain intangible assets on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of such assets. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, effective January 1, 2002. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, the Company performs the annual review for impairment at the reporting unit level, which Eastman has determined to be one level below its operating segment level and considers the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. The tests are performed by determining the fair values of the reporting units using a discounted cash flow model and comparing those fair values to the carrying values of the reporting units, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company then allocates the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting units fair value was the price to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting units goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to such excess. Events or changes in circumstances could occur that may create underperformance relative to projected future cash flows which could create future impairments. At December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, the Company recorded approximately $344 million, $339 million, and $344 million, respectively, of goodwill and $229 million, $275 million, and $277 million, respectively, of other intangibles. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes the amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company. 37 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Nonrecurring Items It is the Companys policy to report as a nonrecurring item a material charge or gain that is not associated with on going operations or that is caused by unique events not reflective of the Companys normal business activities in the period if such items individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on a specific line item in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) or have a material impact on results overall. The Company believes that separately reporting such charges or gains enhances transparency and comparability of results by removing distortion that would otherwise occur. Examples of such items that have been separately reported in the past under this policy include material charges or gains resulting from asset impairments and restructuring of operations, including employee terminations; litigation not related to on going operations; discontinued businesses; and acquisition charges including those related to acquired in process research and development. Nonrecurring items are appropriately identified in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss). RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2002 COMPARED WITH 2001 The Companys results of operations as presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report are described below: Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 Operating earnings (loss) $ 208 $ (120 ) Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 79 (175 ) Net earnings (loss) 61 (175 ) Earnings (loss) per share Basic 0.79 (2.28 ) Diluted 0.79 (2.28 ) Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 5 396 Other nonrecurring operating items 50 Other nonrecurring charges 20 Operating earnings for 2002 were significantly impacted by lower selling prices for all of the Companys segments. Such selling prices decreased more than raw material costs, resulting in a reduction in gross margin in excess of $100 million. Higher sales volumes and lower unit costs resulting from increased capacity utilization had a positive impact on operating earnings for 2002. In addition, operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by: approximately $39 million due to operational disruptions at the Companys Columbia, South Carolina and Rotterdam, the Netherlands facilities; costs pertaining to asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs recorded in the fourth quarter 2002 totaling approximately $17 million; an unfavorable shift in product mix; and asset impairments and restructuring charges (as described more fully below and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements) totaling approximately $5 million. 38 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by: asset impairments and restructuring charges and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $446 million (as described more fully below and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements); and the effect of amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets totaling approximately $20 million. Product (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 5,320 $ 5,390 (1 )% 7 % (7 )% (2 )% 1 % Sales revenue for 2002 declined slightly compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices for all of the Companys segments which had a negative impact on revenues of $351 million. The decline in selling prices is indicative of the Companys inability to increase its selling prices for some of its products, as discussed below, and also of a persistently sluggish global economy, particularly for manufacturers. Increased sales volumes for all of the Companys segments had a positive impact on sales revenue of $359 million. (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Gross Profit $ 779 $ 893 (13 )% As a percentage of sales 14.6 % 16.6 % Decreased selling prices had a negative impact on gross profit for 2002 of $351 million, offset approximately two thirds by decreased raw material costs. Operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina negatively impacted gross profit by approximately $39 million. Fourth quarter 2002 asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $17 million also had a negative impact on gross profit. The following factors affect the Companys ability to impact margins by increasing selling prices: the worldwide supply/demand balance of products and services sold by the Company; the relative cost positions of the Companys competitors; the power of the Companys customers to resist rising selling prices; and whether or not the Companys products and services are different or unique compared to products offered by its competitors. The Company expects that higher raw material costs and a sluggish global economy in 2003 will negatively impact operating results unless the Company is able to offset this impact in part through price increases for certain of its products and through various cost control measures. In addition, the Company has begun taking the following actions to improve its near term and long term profitability: immediate corporate actions to reduce costs in the areas of labor, travel, contractors, fees and out of pocket purchases of all kinds; implementation of organizational changes to improve efficiency and better enable strategy execution; and review of the Companys portfolio of products and businesses, primarily in the Eastman Division; the Company expects that some of its product lines or businesses may be removed from its portfolio to improve profitability. 39 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Selling and General Administrative Expenses $ 407 $ 407 0 % Research and Development Expenses 159 160 (1 )% $ 566 $ 567 As a percentage of sales 10.6 % 10.5 % Selling and general administrative expenses for 2002 were flat compared to 2001 even though costs related to the Companys growth initiatives increased from $35 million in 2001 to approximately $50 million in 2002. This increase was offset by cost control efforts. For 2003, the Company expects to recognize increased selling and general administrative expenses related to Cendian Corporation (Cendian), the Companys logistics subsidiary, as it adds capacity while continuing to add new customers and revenues. Research and development expenses for 2002 were flat compared to 2001. While the Company expects research and development expenses to increase in 2003, the combined costs related to selling and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses are expected to continue to be at or below 11% of sales revenue. Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Termination of raw material supply agreement $ $ 108 Under performing polyethylene assets 1 103 Consolidation and restructuring of CASPI operations 5 77 Restructuring of fine chemicals product lines (1 ) 70 Under utilized specialty plastics assets 15 Discontinuation of precolored green PET 10 Cessation of production at solid stating facility 10 Impaired PCI European assets 3 $ 5 $ 396 In 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded charges related to the write down of underperforming polyethylene assets totaling approximately $1 million and $103 million, respectively. Also in 2001, the Company recorded a charge of $108 million for the write off of a prepaid asset related to the termination of a raw material supply agreement. These charges were reflected in the Polymers segment. Consolidation and restructuring of the operations of the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks (CASPI) segment resulted in restructuring charges, including related asset write downs, of approximately $5 million in 2002 and $77 million in 2001. In the fourth quarter 2002, the Company recognized restructuring charges of approximately $4 million related to closure of plants in Duesseldorf, Germany; Rexdale, Canada; and LaVergne, Tennessee; and additionally recognized an asset impairment charge of approximately $2 million related to certain other European assets. A change in estimate for shutdown reserves for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon resulted in a $1 million credit to earnings in the third quarter 2002. In the fourth quarter 2002, a change in estimate related to the sale of operating assets resulted in a $2 million credit to earnings in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) segment. A charge of approximately $1 million related to impaired research and development assets was also recognized in the PCI segment. Both of these items were related to the Companys fine chemicals product lines. In 2001, the Company recorded restructuring charges, including related asset write downs, of approximately $70 million related to its restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines. During 2001, the Company recorded asset impairment charges related to under utilized assets including $10 million related to the discontinuation of the precolored green PET product line in Kingsport, Tennessee; $10 million related to cessation of production at the Companys solid stating facility in Toronto, Ontario; $15 million related to deterioration of demand for certain specialty plastics products produced in Kingsport, Tennessee; and $3 million related to other impaired assets in Europe. Approximately $20 million of these charges were reflected in the Polymers segment, $15 million in the Specialty Plastics (SP) segment, and $3 million in the PCI segment. 40 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For additional information regarding these asset impairments and restructuring charges, see Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Other Nonrecurring Operating Items (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Costs associated with efforts to spin off specialty chemicals and plastics businesses $ $ 20 Write down of accounts receivable resulting from economic crisis in Argentina 18 Pension settlement charge 7 Write off of Hercules Businesses in process research and development 5 $ $ 50 Other nonrecurring operating items totaling $50 million were recognized in 2001. These items consisted of approximately $20 million in charges associated with efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses; an $18 million write down of accounts receivable for credit risks resulting from the economic crisis in Argentina; a $7 million pension settlement charge; and a $5 million write off of acquired in process research and development related to the May 2001 acquisition of certain businesses from Hercules Incorporated (Hercules Businesses). Approximately $26 million of these items were reflected in the Polymers segment, $11 million in the CASPI segment, $7 million in the PCI segment, $4 million in the SP segment, and $2 million in the Fibers segment. Interest Expense, Net (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Gross interest costs $ 132 $ 151 Less capitalized interest 4 5 Interest expense 128 146 (12 )% Interest income 6 6 Interest expense, net $ 122 $ 140 (13 )% Lower interest expense for 2002 compared to 2001 reflected a net reduction in borrowings and decreases in market interest rates, partially offset by a higher interest rate on the Companys April 2002 10 year bond issue versus the interest rate on commercial paper that was outstanding during the prior period. Other (Income) Charges, Net (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Other income $ (14 ) $ (11 ) 27 % Other charges 16 22 (27 )% Other (income) charges, net $ 2 $ 11 Other income for 2002 primarily reflected the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments and a gain on foreign exchange transactions. The Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments was net of a charge of $5 million related to the previously announced restructuring of Genencor International, Inc., (Genencor) in which the Company owns an approximate 42% equity interest. Other income for 2001 primarily reflected the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor. Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value and fees on securitized receivables. Other charges for 2001 primarily reflected fees on securitized receivables. 41 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other Nonrecurring Charges (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Other nonrecurring charges $ $ 20 Other nonrecurring charges for 2001 totaling $20 million consisted of a $12 million charge for currency losses resulting from the economic crisis in Argentina and $8 million of sorbates civil litigation settlement costs and other professional fees. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes $ 5 $ (116 ) (104 )% Effective tax rate 5.4 % 39.8 % The 2002 effective tax rate was reduced by a net credit of $17 million resulting from the favorable resolution of prior periods tax contingencies, by a reduction in international taxes related to the implementation of the Companys divisional structure, and the elimination of nondeductible goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142. The 2001 effective tax rate was impacted by the significant asset impairments and restructuring charges recorded during 2001 as described above. In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from a foreign sales corporation or extraterritorial income exclusion, and management expects these benefits to continue into 2003. The Company also expects its effective tax rate in 2003 will return to a more normal historical level of 30% to 33%. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle, Net (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net $ (18 ) $ In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows, was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an after tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter 2002. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Additionally, the Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible assets related to assembled workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January 1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. The Company plans to continue its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter of each year, unless events warrant more frequent testing. For additional information regarding the change in accounting principle, see Note 4 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 42 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT The Companys products and operations are managed and reported in five operating segments. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company implemented a divisional structure that separated the businesses into two divisions. Eastman Division consists of the CASPI segment, the PCI segment and the SP segment. Voridian Division contains the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment. The divisional structure has allowed the Company to align costs more directly with the activities and businesses that generate them. The divisional and segment results for 2002, but not for prior periods, reflect this new cost structure. With the implementation of the divisional structure, goods and services are transferred between the two divisions at predetermined prices that may be in excess of cost. Accordingly, the divisional structure results in the recognition of interdivisional sales revenue and operating earnings. Such interdivisional transactions are eliminated in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Prior to 2002, segment sales revenue reflected only actual sales to third parties and the intersegment transfer of goods and services, recorded at cost, had no impact on segment earnings. All Eastman Chemical Company assets were allocated to the divisions as of January 1, 2002. Corporate, general purpose and other nonoperating assets were allocated to segments within each division based on process or product responsibility. Certain infrastructure assets at each site, primarily utilities that were previously allocated to all five segments, were allocated to the primary division at that site. The primary division invoices the other division for services provided by such infrastructure assets. Effective January 1, 2002, sales and operating results for Cendian, the Companys logistics subsidiary and an Eastman Division initiative, are included in amounts for the CASPI, PCI and SP segments, and have been allocated to these segments on the basis of sales revenues for each of these segments. Prior to 2002, sales and operating results for Cendian were allocated to all five segments. Effective January 1, 2002, certain compounded polyethylene products were moved from the Polymers segment to the SP segment. Accordingly, amounts for 2001 and 2000 have been reclassified to reflect this change. Operating earnings for 2002 for the CASPI segment and the SP segment have been reclassified from those presented in the Companys January 30, 2003 sales and earnings press release. The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts, adhesives and other markets. The CASPI segments products consist of binders and resins, liquid vehicles, pigment concentrates and additives, unsaturated polyester resins and polyester and acrylic emulsions. Binders and resins, such as alkyd and polyester resins, hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters, are used in adhesives as key components in paints and inks to form a protective coating or film, and bind color to the substrate. Liquid vehicles, such as ester, ketone and alcohol solvents, maintain the binders in liquid form for ease of application. Pigment concentrates and additives, such as cellulosic polymers, Texanol coalescing aid and chlorinated polyolefins, provide different properties or performance enhancements to the end product. Unsaturated polyester resins are used primarily in gel coats and fiberglass reinforced plastics. Polyester and acrylic emulsions are traditionally used as textile sizes to protect fibers during processing in textile manufacturing, and the technology is also used in water based paints, coatings and inks. Additional products are developed in response to, or in anticipation of, new applications where the Company believes significant value can be achieved. The Companys PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates. The SP segment produces highly specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics that possess unique performance properties for value added end uses such as appliances, in store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronics and electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics, performance films, tape and labels, biodegradeables, cups and lids, fiber and strapping, photographic and optical, graphic arts and general packaging. The SP segments key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products. 43 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers for use in beverage and food packaging and other applications such as custom care and cosmetics packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and industrial. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging a wide variety of products including carbonated soft drinks, water, beer and personal care items and food containers that are suitable for both conventional and microwave oven use. The Polymers segment also manufactures low density polyethylene and linear low density polyethylene, which are used primarily for packaging and film applications and in extrusion coated containers such as milk and juice cartons. The Fibers segment manufactures Estron acetate tow and Estrobond triacetin plasticizers for the cigarette filter market; Chromspun and Estron acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; and acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers. For additional information concerning an analysis of the results of the Companys operating segments, see Note 22 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report. EASTMAN DIVISION CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 1,605 $ 1,508 6 % Volume effect 4 % Price effect (3 )% Product mix effect 0 % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional effect 4 % Operating earnings (loss) 28 (35 ) N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges 5 77 Other nonrecurring operating items 11 2002 Compared With 2001 Sales revenue for 2002 increased moderately compared to 2001 mainly due to interdivisional sales and increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $61 million and $58 million, respectively. The increase in sales volumes for 2002 was primarily due to the Hercules Businesses. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on sales revenue of $49 million. Operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $5 million as described above and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $88 million as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating results for 2001 were also impacted by amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles totaling approximately $20 million. In addition to the items above, selling prices for 2002 declined more than raw material costs resulting in margin compression. Operating earnings for 2002 were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $6 million. For 2003, the Company expects the focus for the CASPI segment to be more on improved margins and profitability than on sales volume gains, except for the strong growth potential for CASPI products in the Asia Pacific and Latin America regions. Additionally, the Company expects further rationalization of businesses and products and consolidation of manufacturing facilities in the CASPI segment to improve overall gross margin. 44 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 1,515 $ 1,132 34 % Volume effect 8 % Price effect (6 )% Product mix effect (5 )% Exchange rate effect 0 % Interdivisional effect 37 % Operating loss (15 ) (76 ) 80 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges (gains) (1 ) 73 Other nonrecurring operating items 7 2002 Compared With 2001 Sales revenue for 2002 increased $383 million including interdivisional sales, but declined $38 million excluding interdivisional sales. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on revenues of $65 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on sales revenue of $87 million, partially offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on revenues of $65 million. The shift in product mix was primarily due to increased sales volumes of lower unit priced products, particularly glacial acetic acid in the acetyl and intermediates product group. In 2002, a change in estimate resulting in a credit of approximately $2 million related to the sale of operating assets and a charge of approximately $1 million related to impaired research and development assets, as more fully described above and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, were recognized in the PCI segment. Results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $73 million and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $7 million, as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, selling prices for 2002 declined more than raw material costs resulting in margin compression. Operating results for 2002 were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $3 million. During 2001, the Company reported that a large customer of the PCI segment did not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30, 2002. As a consequence, the related assets were impaired as expected cash flows over the remaining term of the contract were not sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets. Nonrecurring charges totaling approximately $70 million related to the impacted assets were recorded during 2001 as part of the restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines, as described in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Subsequently, the customer initiated discussions with the Company which resulted in an agreement being reached in June 2002 to extend the custom synthesis product contract one year based on renegotiated terms. Sales revenue related to the contract extension was approximately 3% of the PCI segments sales revenue for 2002. Long term, the Company expects that aggressive management of costs in the PCI segment will help improve margins and position it to take full advantage of the upturn expected in the 2005 through 2006 timeframe. The PCI segment is aggressively identifying and implementing six sigma projects to reduce costs and improve performance. 45 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 595 $ 535 11 % Volume effect 2 % Price effect (4 )% Product mix effect 1 % Exchange rate effect 0 % Interdivisional effect 12 % Operating earnings 23 46 (50 )% Asset impairments and restructuring charges 15 Other nonrecurring operating items 4 2002 Compared With 2001 Sales revenue for 2002 increased $60 million compared to 2001 including interdivisional sales, but decreased $6 million excluding interdivisional sales. The decline in sales revenue excluding interdivisional sales was attributed to a decline in selling prices, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $19 million. The decline in selling prices was partially offset by increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $12 million. Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $15 million and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $4 million, as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by lower selling prices, mainly for cellulosic plastics products. The decline in operating earnings for 2002 was also partially due to the recognition of technology licensing revenue of $6 million that was reflected in results for 2001. New competitors in Asia and Europe negatively impacted results for copolyesters during 2002. However, the Company is committed to maintaining its cost advantages obtained from its scale of operations and manufacturing experience and increasing its utilization of current capacity. VORIDIAN DIVISION Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 1,565 $ 1,587 (1 )% Volume effect 8 % Price effect (13 )% Product mix effect 0 % Exchange rate effect 0 % Interdivisional effect 4 % Operating earnings (loss) 35 (201 ) N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges 1 231 Other nonrecurring operating items 26 46 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2002 Compared With 2001 The slight decrease in sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 was mainly due to lower selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, which had a negative impact on revenues of $207 million. Increased sales volumes, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, had a positive impact on revenues of $131 million. Interdivisional sales also had a positive impact on revenues of $55 million. A nonrecurring charge of approximately $1 million related to impaired polyethylene assets was recognized in the fourth quarter 2002. Results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $231 million and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $26 million, as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina negatively impacted operating earnings for 2002 by approximately $39 million. The Company expects the insurance claims process associated with the operational disruptions to be settled in 2003, and that such settlement will positively impact operating earnings and cash flows when completed. Operating earnings for 2002 were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $3 million. Operating earnings for 2002 were positively impacted by increased sales volumes for PET polymers, lower raw material costs, and better operation and utilization of polyethylene assets. For 2003, the Company expects continued profitability from its PET polymers products as the Company maintains its focus on lowering costs and growing along with overall market demand growth. Longer term, the Company expects global demand for PET polymers to grow at an average rate of approximately 10% annually over the next several years. The Company also expects peaks and troughs in the Polymers segment created by supply and demand imbalances to be less pronounced in the future; capacity utilization in the Polymers segment to be lower in 2003 than in 2002 based on industry projections worldwide; and capacity utilization to vary by region. Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 714 $ 628 14 % Volume effect 11 % Price effect (2 )% Product mix effect (7 )% Exchange rate effect 0 % Interdivisional effect 12 % Operating earnings 133 146 (9 )% Other nonrecurring operating items 2 2002 Compared With 2001 The increase in sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 was mainly due to interdivisional sales and higher sales volumes. Interdivisional sales had a positive impact on revenues of $73 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on revenues of $69 million, largely offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $47 million. The unfavorable shift in product mix was due to increased sales volumes of lower unit priced products, particularly acetyl raw materials. Lower selling prices, primarily for acetyl raw materials, had a negative impact on sales revenue of $11 million. Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $2 million related to costs associated with efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses as more fully described above and in Note 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $3 million. 47 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For 2003, the Company expects the Fibers segment to experience flat to slightly lower revenues but consistent operating earnings and cash flows. SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2002 COMPARED WITH 2001 Sales Revenue Exchange Product Rate (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Mix Effect Effect United States and Canada $ 3,040 $ 3,202 (5 )% 4 % (6 )% (3 )% 0 % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,170 1,148 2 % 5 % (7 )% 0 % 4 % Asia Pacific 636 555 15 % 20 % (5 )% 0 % 0 % Latin America 474 485 (2 )% 12 % (13 )% 1 % (2 )% $ 5,320 $ 5,390 Sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2002 decreased $162 million compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices. The decline in selling prices, which occurred in all segments, had a negative impact on revenues of $185 million. An unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily in the PCI and Fibers segments, had a negative impact on revenues of $107 million offset by increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on revenues of $131 million. Sales revenue in Europe, Middle East, and Africa for 2002 increased $22 million compared to 2001 due to increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on revenues of $58 million, and the positive effect of foreign currency exchange rates, which had a positive impact on revenues of $43 million. These increases were mostly offset by decreased selling prices, primarily for the Polymers segment, which had a negative impact on revenues of $78 million. Sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region for 2002 increased $81 million compared to 2001 due to higher sales volumes, primarily for acetyl and intermediates products, which had a positive impact on revenues of $113 million. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on revenues of $27 million. Sales revenue in Latin America for 2002 decreased $11 million compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices, which had a negative impact on revenues of $61 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on revenues of $58 million. Both the decrease in selling prices and the increase in sales volumes were predominantly attributed to the Polymers segment. Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact on revenues of $8 million. With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States of America, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars. In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate. See Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Part II Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 48 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2001 COMPARED WITH 2000 Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2001 2000 Change Operating earnings (loss) $ (120 ) $ 562 (121 )% Net earnings (loss) (175 ) 303 (158 )% Earnings (loss) per share Basic (2.28 ) 3.95 (158 )% Diluted (2.28 ) 3.94 (159 )% Asset impairments and restructuring charges 396 13 Other nonrecurring operating items 50 8 Other nonrecurring items 20 10 The operating loss of $120 million for 2001 was $682 million below the 2000 operating earnings of $562 million. Operating results for 2001 and 2000 included asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $396 million and $13 million, respectively, and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $50 million and $8 million, respectively, as more fully described below and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In 2001, lower sales volumes excluding acquisitions, higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization, and additional selling and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses from acquisitions also negatively impacted operating results. The decline in sales volumes in existing businesses was attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Product (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 5,390 $ 5,292 2 % 3 % 0 % 0 % (1 )% Revenue from acquisitions contributed 8% or $411 million to the increase in sales revenue, partially offset by decreased sales volumes in existing businesses, which had a negative impact of 5% or $245 million on sales revenue. The decline in sales volumes in existing businesses was attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact on sales revenue of $56 million. Overall selling prices remained flat compared to 2000. (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Gross Profit $ 893 $ 1,078 (17 )% As a percentage of sales 16.6 % 20.4 % In 2001, gross profit was negatively impacted by lower sales volumes in existing businesses attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization also had a negative impact on gross profit. 49 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Selling and General Administrative Expenses $ 407 $ 346 18 % Research and Development Expenses 160 149 7 % $ 567 $ 495 As a percentage of sales 10.5 % 9.4 % Higher selling and general administrative expenses primarily reflected additional costs associated with recent acquisitions, including integration costs, and costs incurred by Cendian to develop its capacity to establish new customers in the chemicals logistics business. Research and development expenses increased for 2001 compared to 2000 mainly due to costs associated with the Hercules Businesses and McWhorter Technologies, Inc. (McWhorter). Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges In 2001, nonrecurring charges totaling $396 million related to asset impairments and restructuring costs were recognized. (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Termination of raw material supply agreement $ 108 $ Under performing polyethylene assets 103 Consolidation and restructuring of CASPI segment operations 77 Restructuring of fine chemicals product lines 70 Under utilized specialty plastics assets 15 Discontinuation of precolored green PET 10 Cessation of production at solid stating facility 10 Impaired PCI European assets 3 Sorbates manufacturing exit costs 8 Distillation Products Industries exit costs 5 $ 396 $ 13 In 2001, approximately $231 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges were incurred in the Polymers segment. A charge of $108 million was recognized for the write off of a prepaid asset related to the termination of a raw material supply agreement and a charge of $103 million was recognized for the write down of underperforming polyethylene assets. A $10 million charge related to discontinuation of the precolored green PET product line in Kingsport, Tennessee and a $10 million charge related to cessation of production at the Companys solid stating facility in Toronto, Ontario were also recognized. The consolidation and restructuring of the operations of the CASPI segment resulted in restructuring charges, including related asset write downs, totaling $77 million. Of these charges, $27 million related to the closure of an operating site in Duesseldorf, Germany that was obtained in the acquisition of Jager and $21 million related to the closure of a Moundville, Alabama plant that was obtained in the acquisition of Lawter International, Inc. The closure of plants in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon that were obtained in the acquisition of McWhorter resulted in charges of $20 million being recognized. These restructuring charges included write downs of the fixed assets at these facilities, severance accruals for employees impacted by the plant shutdowns, and other costs associated with closing the facilities. Charges of $6 million and $3 million were recorded for the write down of impaired operating assets in North America and Europe, respectively. The PCI segment incurred total nonrecurring charges of $73 million in 2001. Approximately $70 million of these charges resulted from the Companys on going restructuring of its fine chemicals product lines to reduce costs and to write down assets determined to be impaired. The restructuring initiative and related asset impairments included assets at the Companys Tennessee and Arkansas sites within the United States, a plant in Wales, and a plant in Hong Kong. A charge of $63 million pertained primarily to write downs of fixed assets associated with product lines that the Company will no longer pursue, net of the effect of a reversal of a customer deposit related to the impacted assets, and 50 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS write downs of other long term deposits. A charge of $7 million pertained primarily to severance accruals for employees impacted by the plant shutdowns, closure costs, and write downs of fixed assets. An additional charge of $3 million was recognized for other impaired assets in the European region. The Company recorded asset impairment charges of approximately $15 million associated with under utilized assets in the SP segment. These charges related to deterioration of demand for certain specialty plastics products produced in Kingsport, Tennessee. Approximately $75 million of the charges discussed above were recognized in the fourth quarter 2001. Of this total, $36 million related to the consolidation and restructuring of the operations of the CASPI segment; $20 million related to asset impairment charges associated with under utilized assets in the Polymers segment; $15 million related to under utilized specialty plastics assets; $3 million related to impaired PCI European assets; and $1 million related to the Companys on going restructuring of its fine chemicals product lines. In 2000, nonrecurring charges totaling $13 million were recognized, of which $8 million related to costs associated with exiting the sorbates manufacturing site at Chocolate Bayou, Texas, and $5 million related to the shutdown of facilities at Distillation Products Industries in Rochester, New York. These charges were reflected in the PCI segment. For additional information regarding these asset impairments and restructuring charges, see Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Other Nonrecurring Operating Items (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Costs associated with efforts to spin off specialty chemicals and plastics businesses $ 20 $ Write down of accounts receivable resulting from economic crisis in Argentina 18 Pension settlement charge 7 Write off of Hercules Businesses in process research and development 5 Write off of McWhorter in process research and development 9 Gain on sale of assets (1 ) $ 50 $ 8 Other nonrecurring operating items totaling $50 million were recognized in 2001. These items consisted of approximately $20 million in charges associated with efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses; an $18 million write down of accounts receivable for credit risks resulting from the economic crisis in Argentina; a $7 million pension settlement charge; and a $5 million write off of acquired in process research and development related to the acquisition of the Hercules Businesses. Approximately $26 million of these items were reflected in the Polymers segment, $11 million in the CASPI segment, $7 million in the PCI segment, $4 million in the SP segment, and $2 million in the Fibers segment. Other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $8 million were recorded in 2000. Reflected in the CASPI segment was a $9 million charge to write off in process research and development related to the McWhorter acquisition, partially offset by a $1 million gain on the sale of certain assets, reflected in the Polymers segment. Interest Expense, Net (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Gross interest costs $ 151 $ 148 Less capitalized interest 5 6 Interest expense 146 142 3 % Interest income 6 7 Interest expense, net $ 140 $ 135 4 % 51 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Higher interest expense reflected higher average commercial paper and other short term borrowings used to finance the purchase of recent acquisitions and for general financing and investing activities, partially offset by lower average borrowing rates of approximately 6.5% for 2001 compared to approximately 7.25% for 2000. Other (Income) Charges, Net (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Other income $ (11 ) $ (31 ) (65 )% Other charges 22 34 (35 )% Other (income) charges, net $ 11 $ 3 Gain recognized on initial public offering of Genencor $ $ (38 ) Other income includes the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of nonoperating assets, royalty income, gains on foreign exchange transactions, and other miscellaneous items. Other income for 2001 primarily reflected the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor. Other income for 2000 primarily reflected gains on sales of nonoperating assets and the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments. Other charges for 2001 included losses from foreign exchange transactions, certain litigation costs, losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables, and other miscellaneous items. Other charges declined mainly due to a decrease in certain litigation costs and lower fees related to securitized receivables. In 2000, a nonrecurring gain of approximately $38 million resulted from the initial public offering of common shares of Genencor. Other Nonrecurring Items (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Other nonrecurring items $ 20 $ 10 Other nonrecurring items for 2001 totaling $20 million consisted of a $12 million charge for currency losses resulting from the economic crisis in Argentina and $8 million of sorbates civil litigation settlement costs and other professional fees. Other nonrecurring items for 2000 totaling $10 million were recognized for costs related to sorbates civil litigation. SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT EASTMAN DIVISION CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Sales $ 1,508 $ 1,176 28 % Operating earnings (loss) (35 ) 123 (128 )% Asset impairments and restructuring charges 77 Other nonrecurring operating items 11 9 52 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2001 Compared With 2000 Sales revenue from acquisitions had a positive impact on sales revenue of $409 million, which was partially offset by a decrease in sales volumes for existing businesses of $77 million. The decline in sales volumes for existing businesses was attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Increased selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of 1% or $15 million, offset by the negative effect of foreign currency exchange rates of 1% or $16 million. Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $77 million and by other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $11 million. Operating earnings for 2000 were negatively impacted by other nonrecurring operating items of approximately $9 million. For further information refer to Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the above items, operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by lower sales volumes excluding acquisitions, higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization, and additional selling and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses from acquisitions. PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Sales $ 1,132 $ 1,297 (13 )% Operating earnings (loss) (76 ) 87 (187 )% Asset impairments and restructuring charges 73 13 Other nonrecurring operating charges 7 2001 Compared With 2000 Sales revenue declined 10% or $133 million due to lower sales volumes attributed to weaker economic demand worldwide. Decreased selling prices had a negative impact on sales revenue of approximately 1% or $11 million. An unfavorable shift in product mix had a negative impact on sales revenue of 1% or $15 million. The remaining decline in sales revenue was attributable to foreign currency exchange rates. Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $73 million and other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $7 million. Operating earnings for 2000 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $13 million. For further information see Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization and decreased sales volumes resulting from weaker economic demand worldwide. Based upon indications from a large customer of this segment that it did not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30, 2002, the Company did not expect to pursue that product in the future. Sales of that product represented approximately 2% of Eastmans sales revenue for 2000 and approximately 5% of Eastmans operating earnings for 2000. Financial results reported after June 30, 2001 reflect a minimal contribution to operating earnings from this contract. 53 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Sales $ 535 $ 574 (7 )% Operating earnings 46 104 (56 )% Asset impairments and restructuring charges 15 Other nonrecurring operating charges 4 2001 Compared With 2000 Sales revenue declined $38 million mainly due to lower sales volumes, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of 7% or $39 million. Foreign currency exchange rates also had a negative effect of 1% or $7 million on sales revenue while selling prices remained relatively flat compared to 2000. A favorable shift in product mix had a positive effect on sales revenue of 2% or $9 million. Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $15 million and by other nonrecurring operating charges totaling approximately $4 million, as more fully described above and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by higher unit costs driven by lower capacity utilization and decreased sales volumes resulting from weaker demand, primarily for cellulosic products. VORIDIAN DIVISION Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Sales $ 1,587 $ 1,612 (3 )% Operating earnings (loss) (201 ) 98 (305 )% Asset impairments and restructuring charges 231 Other nonrecurring operating items 26 (1 ) 2001 Compared With 2000 Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact on sales revenue of 2% or $25 million. Decreased selling prices, primarily for polyethylene, also had a negative impact on sales revenue of 1% or $20 million, partially offset by an increase in sales volumes, primarily for PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of 1% or $16 million. Results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $231 million and by other nonrecurring operating items totaling approximately $26 million. Operating earnings for 2000 were positively impacted by a $1 million gain on the sale of certain assets. For further information, see Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 54 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Sales $ 628 $ 633 (1 )% Operating earnings 146 150 (3 )% Other nonrecurring operating items 2 2001 Compared With 2000 Decreased sales volumes had a negative impact on sales revenue of 2% or $11 million. The sales volume decrease was largely offset by increased selling prices, primarily related to acetate tow. Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative effect on sales revenue of 1% or $3 million. Operating earnings for 2001 included nonrecurring items of approximately $2 million, as more fully described above and in Note 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating earnings for 2001 remained relatively flat as a slight decline in sales volumes was offset by a slight increase in selling prices. For additional information concerning the Companys operating segments, see Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report and Note 22 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2001 COMPARED WITH 2000 Sales Revenue Exchange Product Rate (Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Mix Effect Effect United States and Canada $ 3,202 $ 3,229 (1 )% 1 % (2 )% 0 % 0 % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,148 1,062 8 % 6 % 5 % 0 % (3 )% Asia Pacific 555 547 1 % 7 % (4 )% 0 % (2 )% Latin America 485 454 7 % 7 % 2 % 0 % (2 )% $ 5,390 $ 5,292 In the United States and Canada, sales revenue decreased slightly mainly due to lower sales volumes for existing businesses, attributed to weaker economic demand, which had a negative impact of 8% or $248 million on sales revenue. Lower selling prices, primarily for polyethylene, also had a negative impact on sales revenue of $50 million. These decreases were partially offset by revenue contributed by acquisitions, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of 9% or $285 million. In Europe, Middle East, and Africa, sales revenue increased mainly due to revenue contributed by acquisitions, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of 11% or $118 million. Increased selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $52 million, more than offset by decreased sales volumes for existing businesses. PET polymers were the primary reason for the change in selling prices and sales volumes. Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $36 million on sales revenue. The slight increase in sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region was due to higher sales volumes, mainly for PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $38 million. This increase was partially offset by lower selling prices and foreign currency exchange rates, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $20 million and $9 million, respectively. 55 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In Latin America, sales revenue increased primarily due to increased sales volumes, mainly for PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $31 million. Higher selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $10 million, offset by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates. With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States of America, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars. In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate. See Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Part II Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL DATA (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 801 $ 397 $ 846 Investing activities (467 ) (523 ) (465 ) Financing activities (323 ) 91 (466 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 11 $ (35 ) $ (85 ) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 77 $ 66 $ 101 Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 increased $404 million primarily due to the impact of changes in working capital; a change in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive compensation; and receipt of a federal income tax refund of approximately $40 million. Changes in working capital increased operating cash flows by approximately $66 million in 2002 and decreased operating cash flows by approximately $46 million in 2001. Working capital decreased during 2002 as significant increases in trade accounts payable were partially offset by increases in inventory. In 2001, working capital increased as a result of a significant decrease in trade accounts payable and an increase in inventories, partially offset by a decrease in receivables. Changes in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive compensation increased operating cash flows $81 million in 2002 and decreased cash flows $8 million in 2001. Payments required under the Eastman Performance Plan and the Unit Performance Plan during 2002 were significantly lower than similar payments in 2001 due to the performance under these plans for 2001 and 2000. In 2000, cash flows from operations were positively impacted by settlement of strategic foreign currency hedging transactions, partially offset by an increase in working capital. Cash provided by operating activities in 2000 also reflected $50 million provided by a continuous sale of accounts receivable program. Cash used in investing activities reflected increased expenditures for capital additions in 2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to the $161 million related to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease, while expenditures for acquisitions decreased in 2002 compared with 2001. In 2002, cash paid for Ariel Research Corporation was approximately $6 million; in 2001, cash paid for the Hercules Businesses was approximately $252 million; in 2000, cash paid for McWhorter was approximately $200 million and for Sokolov was approximately $46 million. Cash used in investing activities in 2002, 2001 and 2000 additionally reflects other small acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities in 2000 reflected higher proceeds from sales of assets. Cash used in financing activities in 2002 reflected a significant decrease in commercial paper and short term borrowings attributable to the use of proceeds from long term debt issued during 2002 and the use of cash generated from operations to repay indebtedness. Cash provided by financing activities in 2001 included the effect of treasury stock purchases resulting from a reverse/forward stock split of the Companys common stock approved by the stockholders in 2001. In 2000, cash used in financing activities reflected a repayment of borrowings associated with acquisitions and the effect of treasury stock purchases. The payment of dividends is also reflected in all periods. 56 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company expects to continue to pay the quarterly cash dividend. Priorities for use of available cash from operations will be to pay the dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings, fund targeted growth initiatives such as small acquisitions and other ventures, and repurchase shares. Liquidity Eastman has access to a $600 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) expiring in July 2005. The Credit Facility was reduced from $800 million to $600 million in the second quarter 2002 following the issuance of $400 million in fixed rate debt described below. Any borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility requires facility fees on the total commitment that vary based on Eastmans credit rating. The rate for such fees was 0.15% as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. The Credit Facility contains a number of covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Eastman typically utilizes commercial paper, generally with maturities of 90 days or less, to meet its liquidity needs. The Credit Facility provides liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes. Accordingly, outstanding commercial paper borrowings reduce borrowings available under the Credit Facility. Because the Credit Facility expires in July 2005, the commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit Facility are classified as long term borrowings because the Company has the ability to refinance such borrowings on a long term basis. At December 31, 2002, the Companys commercial paper borrowings were $143 million at an effective interest rate of 1.66%. At December 31, 2001, the Companys outstanding Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings were $637 million at an effective interest rate of 3.17%. The Company has an effective registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue up to $1 billion of debt or equity securities. On April 3, 2002, Eastman issued notes in the principal amount of $400 million due 2012 and bearing interest at 7% per annum. Net proceeds from the sale of the notes were $394 million and were used to repay portions of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings. In the first quarter 2002, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that converted the effective interest rates of the notes due in January 2004 to variable rates. These original interest rate swaps were settled during the fourth quarter 2002 resulting in $13 million cash proceeds being received by the Company which were included in cash flows from 2002 operations in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The gain resulting from the settlement of the swaps is reflected as an increase in long term debt and will be amortized into earnings as a reduction of interest expense through the maturity of the notes in January 2004. In conjunction with the settlement of the original interest rate swaps, new interest rate swaps were entered into in the fourth quarter 2002, converting the effective interest rates on the notes due in 2004 to variable rates that averaged 4.07% at December 31, 2002. The recording of the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding debt resulted in increases of $3 million in other noncurrent assets and long term borrowings at December 31, 2002. The Company expects to contribute approximately $220 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2003 and that additional funding will be required in 2004, although the amount of such contribution is dependent upon interest rates, actual return on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, and other factors. Cash flows from operations and the sources of capital described above are expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow requirements. However, the Companys cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw materials availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastmans products, capacity utilization and other factors described under Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors below. 57 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $427 million, $234 million and $226 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2002 include $161 million related to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. The Company continues its emphasis on cash flow management and, for 2003, expects that capital spending and other directed investments for small acquisitions and other ventures will be no more than depreciation and amortization. Long term commitments related to planned capital expenditures are not material. Other Commitments At December 31, 2002, the Companys obligations related to long term notes and debentures totaled $1.9 billion to be paid over a period of 25 years. Other borrowings, related primarily to commercial paper borrowings, totaled approximately $154 million. The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2002 totaling approximately $1.3 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business. The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable and month to month operating leases totaling approximately $257 million over a period of several years. Of the total lease commitments, approximately 40% relate to machinery and equipment, including computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately 34% relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities and land; and approximately 26% relate to railcars. The obligations described above are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Payments Due By Period Total 2003 2004 07 2008 12 Beyond 2012 Long term notes and debentures $ 1,903 $ $ 513 $ 397 $ 993 Commercial paper and other borrowings 154 3 151 Purchase obligations 1,288 151 538 448 151 Operating leases 257 50 114 57 36 $ 3,602 $ 204 $ 1,316 $ 902 $ 1,180 If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees in excess of the payments included above is remote. Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2002 totaled $52 million. The Company maintains defined benefit plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. Benefits are paid to employees from trust funds. The Company contributes to the plans as permitted by laws and regulations. No contribution to the plans was made or required in 2002 and the Company anticipates funding approximately $220 million in 2003. As disclosed in Note 9 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, during 2002 the Companys additional minimum pension liability increased from $187 million to $417 million. While this amount does not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication the Company will be required to contribute cash to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such contributions is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, and other factors. Such factors can significantly impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company. The Company has long term commitments relating to joint ventures as described in Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company guarantees up to $137 million of the principal amount of the joint ventures third party borrowings, but believes, based on current facts and circumstances and the structure of the ventures, that the likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote. As described in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, Eastman entered into an agreement in 1999 that allows it to sell undivided interests in certain domestic trade accounts receivable under a planned continuous sale program to a third party. Under this agreement, receivables sold to the third party totaled $200 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001. Undivided interests in designated receivable pools were sold to the purchaser with recourse limited to the purchased interest in the receivable pools. 58 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company also had outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2002. Additional information related to these guarantees is included in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company did not have any other material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as special purpose entities, for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements with contractually narrow or limited purposes. Thus, Eastman is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk related to the above or any other such relationships. Treasury Stock Transactions The Company is currently authorized to repurchase up to $400 million of its common stock. No shares of Eastman common stock were repurchased by the Company during 2002. During 2001, 77,069 shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $4 million, or an average price of $53 per share, were repurchased. A total of 2,746,869 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $112 million, or an average price of approximately $41 per share, has been repurchased under the authorization. Repurchased shares may be used to meet common stock requirements for compensation and benefit plans and other corporate purposes. In the first quarter 2002, the Company issued 126,614 previously repurchased shares as the annual Company contribution to the Eastman Investment and Employee Stock Ownership Plan. Dividends The Company declared cash dividends of $0.44 per share in the fourth quarters 2002, 2001 and 2000 and a total of $1.76 per share in 2002, 2001 and 2000. ENVIRONMENTAL Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes, the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of which are regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure/postclosure under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Adequate reserves for environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastmans policies as described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Companys preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, it does not believe its liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount accrued reflects the Companys assumptions about remedial requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. Estimated future environmental contingencies ranged from the minimum or best estimate of $97 million to the maximum of $111 million at December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company had recognized environmental contingencies of approximately $60 million and $54 million, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for closure/postclosure, costs accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives. 59 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Companys cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were approximately $195 million, $216 million and $195 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. These amounts pertain primarily to operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also include expenditures for construction and development. The Company does not expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Companys planned level of capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. INFLATION In recent years, inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastmans costs. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market price, although derivative financial instruments may be utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market price fluctuations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and or normal use of the asset. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003. Upon initial application of the provisions of SFAS No. 143, entities are required to recognize a liability for any existing asset retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of adoption of this Statement, an asset retirement cost capitalized as an increase to the carrying amount of the associated long lived asset, and accumulated depreciation on that capitalized cost. The effect, if any, of initially applying this Statement will be reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The Company is evaluating the effect this Statement will have on its future financial statements. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. This Statement, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale leaseback transactions. The provisions of this Statement are generally effective for the Companys 2003 fiscal year, or in the case of specific provisions, for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002 or for financial statements issued on or after May 15, 2002. The provisions of this Statement have not had and are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). This Statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, and concludes that an entitys commitment to an exit plan does not by itself create a present obligation that meets the definition of a liability. This Statement also establishes that fair value is the objective of initial measurement of the liability. The provisions of this Statement are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application encouraged. The Company adopted SFAS No. 146 on January 1, 2003. If adopted early, this Statement would not have had a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. EITF Issue No. 00 21 provides guidance on how to account for arrangements that involve the delivery or performance of multiple products, services and or rights to use assets. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 00 21 will apply to revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00 21 will have on its results of operations and financial condition. 60 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34. FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, relating to the guarantors accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. The disclosure provisions of FIN 45 are effective for the current fiscal year, and the Company has included this information in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. However, the provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of a guarantors year end. The Company has not assessed what impact, if any, the adoption of the initial recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 will have upon its financial condition or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, amendment of FASB Statement No. 123. This Statement provides additional transition guidance for those entities that elect to voluntarily adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. Furthermore, SFAS No. 148 mandates new disclosures in both interim and year end financial statements within Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies, to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company has elected not to adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148. However, the Company has adopted the disclosure provisions for the current fiscal year and has included this information in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities (VIEs) created after January 31, 2003, and to VIEs in which an enterprise obtains an interest after that date. It applies in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, to VIEs in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003. FIN 46 applies to public enterprises as of the beginning of the applicable interim or annual period. See Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for disclosures regarding the Companys VIEs. The adoption of FIN 46 is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. OUTLOOK For 2003, the Company expects: Global political and economic uncertainties will continue to result in higher raw material costs and a sluggish global economy that will negatively impact operating results for the Company; the Company expects to offset this impact in part through price increases for certain of its products and through various cost control measures; To increase 2003 funding of its U.S. defined benefit pension plans to approximately $220 million and that additional funding will be required in 2004, although the amount of such contribution is dependent upon interest rates, actual return on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, and other factors; Pension and other postemployment benefit expenses in 2003 to increase over 2002 due primarily to low interest rates and the unfavorable market performance for plan assets; Lower depreciation expense in 2003 as compared with 2002 will significantly mitigate the impact on earnings of expected pension and other postemployment benefit cost increases; Earnings from operations will continue to reflect expenses related to new business development activities and that such expenses will be approximately 1% to 1 1/2% of sales revenue; 61 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Combined costs related to selling and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses to be at or below 11% of sales revenue; To continue to evaluate the allegations and claims made in recent asbestos related lawsuits and its insurance coverages, and that the ultimate resolution of asbestos cases will not have a material impact on the Companys financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, although these matters could result in the Company being subject to monetary damages, costs or expenses and charges against earnings in particular periods; To continue to pay the quarterly cash dividend; Priorities for use of available cash from operations will be to pay the dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings, fund targeted growth initiatives such as small acquisitions and other ventures, and repurchase shares; Capital spending and other directed investments for small acquisitions and other ventures to be no more than depreciation and amortization; The effective tax rate will return to a more normal historical level of 30% to 33%; To recognize increasing selling and general administrative expenses related to Cendian as it adds capacity while continuing to add new customers and revenues; To review its portfolio of products and businesses across the Company, primarily in the Eastman Division, and that some product lines or businesses may be removed from the Companys portfolio to improve profitability; The focus for the CASPI segment to be more on improved margins and profitability than on sales volume gains except for the strong growth potential for CASPI products in the Asia Pacific and Latin America regions; additionally, the Company expects further rationalization of businesses and products and consolidation of manufacturing facilities in the CASPI segment to improve overall gross margin; The insurance claims process associated with the operational disruptions at its Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina facilities to be settled in 2003, and such settlement will positively impact operating earnings and cash flows when completed; Continued profitability from its PET polymers products as the Company maintains its focus on lowering costs and growing along with overall market demand growth; and The Fibers segment to continue to experience flat to slightly lower revenues but consistent operating earnings and cash flows. The Company is continuing to work towards achieving earnings in 2003 that are sufficient to return the cost of capital, which would result in earnings of approximately $2.70 to $2.85 per share; however, there are a number of factors that are negatively impacting earnings that make accomplishing this goal difficult, including: higher than previously anticipated raw material costs, which in several instances have risen to unprecedented levels; a lack of pricing power for some of the Companys products; and a sluggish global economy, particularly for manufacturing. In order to offset these and other challenging factors in 2003, the Company is: utilizing its marketing capabilities to recover raw material cost increases and improve margins wherever possible; implementing various organizational changes and cost control measures; and using all lines of the income statement to improve profitability. See Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. Longer term, the Company expects: Global demand for PET polymers to grow at an average rate of approximately 10% annually over the next several years; Peaks and troughs in the Polymers segment created by supply and demand imbalances to be less pronounced in the future; capacity utilization in the Polymers segment to be lower in 2003 than in 2002 based on industry projections worldwide; and capacity utilization to vary by region; and Aggressive management of costs in the PCI segment will help improve margins and position it to take full advantage of the upturn expected in the 2005 through 2006 timeframe. The Company is also aggressively identifying and implementing Six Sigma projects to reduce costs and improve performance. See Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors. 62 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS The expectations under Outlook and certain other statements in this Annual Report may be forward looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements and other written and oral forward looking statements made by the Company from time to time may relate to, among other things, such matters as planned and expected capacity increases and utilization; anticipated capital spending; expected depreciation and amortization; environmental matters; legal proceedings; exposure to, and effects of hedging of, raw material and energy costs and foreign currencies; global and regional economic, political, and business conditions; competition; growth opportunities; supply and demand, volume, price, cost, margin, and sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and other expected financial conditions; expectations, strategies, and plans for individual products, businesses, segments and divisions as well as for the whole of Eastman Chemical Company; cash requirements and uses of available cash; financing plans; pension expenses and funding; future expenses and insurance settlement associated with operational disruptions; credit rating; cost reduction and control efforts and targets; integration of acquired businesses; development, production, commercialization, and acceptance of new products, services and technologies and related costs; and asset and product portfolio changes. These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions, including those mentioned with the specific statements. Such assumptions are in turn based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management plans and strategies, economic conditions and other factors. These plans and expectations and the assumptions underlying them are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions and expectations proves to be inaccurate or is unrealized. In addition to the factors described in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward looking statements: The Company has manufacturing and marketing operations throughout the world, with approximately 45% of the Companys revenues attributable to sales outside the United States. Economic factors, including foreign currency exchange rates, could affect the Companys revenues, expenses and results. Although the Company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign currencies, any changes in strategy in regard to risk management tools can also affect revenues, expenses and results and there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, changes in laws, regulations, or other political factors in any of the countries in which the Company operates could affect business in that country or region, as well as the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company has made and may continue to make acquisitions, divestitures and investments, and enter into alliances, as part of its growth strategy. The completion of such transactions are subject to the timely receipt of necessary regulatory and other consents and approvals needed to complete the transactions which could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including the satisfactory negotiation of the transaction documents and the fulfillment of all closing conditions to the transactions. Additionally, after completion of the transactions, there can be no assurance that such transactions will be successfully integrated on a timely and cost efficient basis or that they will achieve projected operating earnings targets. The Company has made strategic technology investments, including formation of joint ventures and investments in other technology businesses, in order to build certain Eastman capabilities. There can be no assurance that such investments will achieve their objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Companys results of operations. The Company owns assets in the form of equity in other companies, including joint ventures, technology investments and Genencor. Such investments are minority investments in companies which are not managed or controlled by the Company and are subject to all of the risks associated with changes in value of such investments including the market valuation of those companies whose shares are publicly traded. 63 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company has undertaken and will continue to undertake productivity and cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve performance and generate cost savings. There can be no assurance that these will be completed as planned or beneficial or that estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, the Company is striving to improve margins on its products through price increases, where warranted and accepted by the market; however, the Companys earnings could be negatively impacted should such increases be unrealized, not be sufficient to cover increased raw material costs, or have a negative impact on demand and volume. The Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials for its operations and utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market fluctuations in raw material costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which the Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials. While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, or due to domestic or world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, war or other outbreak of hostilities. Eastmans operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors. The Companys competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of the Companys products is driven by end use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of the Companys products. The Company has an extensive customer base; however, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced. Limitation of the Companys available manufacturing capacity due to significant disruption in its manufacturing operations could have a material adverse affect on revenues, expenses and results of operations and financial condition. The Companys facilities and businesses are subject to complex health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations currently and in the future. The Companys accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are believed to be adequate, but are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. The estimates depend on a number of factors including those associated with on going operations and remedial requirements. On going operations can be affected by unanticipated government enforcement action, which in turn is influenced by the nature of the allegation and the complexity of the site. Likewise, changes in chemical control regulations and testing requirements can increase costs or result in product deselection. Remediation requirements at contaminated sites are dependent on the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. The Company accesses the capital and credit markets on a regular basis. Access to these markets and the cost of capital and debt financing is dependent upon the Companys credit rating received from independent credit rating agencies. A downgrade of one level in the Companys credit rating is not anticipated, but should it occur, would not cause a significant impact on the commitments or sources of capital or debt available to the Company, and would not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations. However, an adverse change in the Companys credit rating could affect the renewal of existing credit facilities or the Companys ability to obtain access to new credit facilities in the future, could adversely affect the terms under which the Company can borrow, and could increase the cost of borrowings under such facilities. 64 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Companys operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company. The foregoing list of important factors does not include all such factors nor necessarily present them in order of importance. This disclosure, including that under Outlook and Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors, and other forward looking statements and related disclosures made by the Company in this filing and elsewhere from time to time, represent managements best judgment as of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in Company press releases) on related subjects. 65 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal course of its business due to its use of certain financial instruments as well as transacting in various foreign currencies and funding of foreign operations. To mitigate the Companys exposure to these market risks, Eastman has established policies, procedures, and internal processes governing its management of financial market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage its exposure to such risks. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing activities, which include short term commercial paper and long term borrowings used to maintain liquidity and to fund its business operations and capital requirements. Currently, these borrowings are predominately U.S. dollar denominated. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. The Companys operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company continually evaluates its foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and the locations in which the Company conducts business. In order to mitigate the effect of foreign currency risk, the Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and currency options to hedge probable anticipated but not yet committed export sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than two years and denominated in foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of related exposures. It is the Companys policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency transactions for speculative purposes. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for certain of its major raw materials. To mitigate short term fluctuations in market prices for certain commodities, principally propane, ethane, and natural gas, the Company enters into forwards and options contracts. The Company determines its market risk utilizing sensitivity analysis, which measures the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and or commodity prices. For 2002 and 2001, the market risk associated with the fair value of interest rate sensitive instruments, assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in interest rates of 10% are approximately $100 million and $81 million, respectively, and an additional $10 million for each one percentage point change in interest rates thereafter. This exposure is primarily related to long term debt with fixed interest rates. The market risk associated with foreign currency sensitive instruments utilizing a modified Black Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign currency hedged by the Company is approximately $4 million and $2 million and an additional $0.4 million and $0.1 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, for an additional one percentage point adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. Further adverse movements in foreign currencies would create losses in fair value; however, such losses would not be linear to that disclosed above. This exposure, which is primarily related to foreign currency options purchased by the Company to manage fluctuations in foreign currencies, is limited to the dollar value of option premiums payable by the Company for the related financial instruments. In 2002, the market risk associated with foreign currency options utilizing a modified Black Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse change in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign currency results in a $2 million loss in fair value. Furthermore, since the Company utilizes currency sensitive derivative instruments for hedging anticipated foreign currency transactions, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying anticipated transactions. The market risk associated with feedstock options and natural gas swaps assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in the underlying commodity price of 10% is approximately $2 million and an additional $0.1 million and $0.2 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively, for each one percentage point move in closing prices thereafter. 66 Table of Contents EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 
