ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements for Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company"), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. All references to earnings per share contained in this report are diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Companys management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and incentives, doubtful accounts, impaired assets, environmental costs, pensions and other postemployment benefits, goodwill and other intangibles, and l itigation and contingencies. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Companys management believes the critical accounting policies described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Companys financial condition and results. These policies require managements more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Customer Programs and Incentives The Company records estimated obligations for customer programs and incentive offerings, which consist primarily of revenue or volume based amounts that a customer must achieve over a specified period of time, as a reduction of revenue to each underlying revenue transaction as the customer progresses toward reaching goals specified in incentive agreements. These estimates are based on a combination of forecast of customer sales and actual sales volumes and revenues against established goals, the customers current level of purchases, and Eastmans knowledge of customer purchasing habits and industry pricing practice. The incentive payment rate may be variable, based upon the customer reaching higher sales volume or revenue levels over a specified period of time in order to receive an agreed upon incentive payment. Since the volume incentives and their usefulness to the Company are largely based on the overall supply and demand in the markets for the products the Company produces, significant changes in supply and demand can positively or negatively impact the effectiveness of the Companys customer programs and incentives. This has been particularly true for the Companys PET Polymers business. The Companys reserve for customer programs and incentives was $45 million, $50 million, and $44 million at December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of trade receivables. If market conditions change, the Company could be forced to take actions to adjust customer incentive offerings to maintain market share and capacity utilization. 34 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Allowances for Doubtful Accounts The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts (the "allowances") for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The allowances are based on the relative age of each individual receivable and managements regular assessment of the financial condition of the Companys customers. Additionally, management regularly reviews credit limits based on payment activity and other customer related factors to determine whether or not to extend credit and what other limiting terms, such as prepayment requirements, will be levied on given customers. The Company increases the allowances based on a monthly evaluation of the aged receivables, and based on their age, writes off a certain percentage. These expectations have historically been relative ly accurate with regard to most of the Companys customers. However, under certain circumstances, such as a customers bankruptcy, the Company will increase the allowance to reflect the collectability of the receivable. The Company believes, based on historical results, the likelihood of actual write offs having a material impact on financial results or earnings per share is low. However, if one of the Companys key customers were to file for bankruptcy, or otherwise be unable to make its required payments, or there was a significant continued slow down in the economy, the Company could be forced to increase its allowances. This could result in a material charge to earnings. The Companys allowances were $28 million, $32 million, and $35 million at December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Further information is provided in Schedule II, "Valuation and Qualifying Accounts." Impaired Assets The Company evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets, including definite lived intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of a long lived asset is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from such assets are separately identifiable and are less than its carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long lived asset. For long lived assets to be held and used, fair value of fixed (tangible) assets and definite lived intangible assets is determined primarily using either the projected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved or appraisal. For long lived a ssets to be disposed of by sale or other than by sale, fair value is determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced for disposal costs. As the Companys assumptions related to long lived assets are subject to change, additional write downs may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are revised, the carrying amount of the related asset is adjusted, resulting in recognition of a charge or benefit to earnings. The Company recorded fixed (tangible) asset impairments of $291 million and definite lived intangible asset impairments of $128 million during 2003. For more information, see Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Companys assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chem ical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $34 million to the maximum of $52 million at December 31, 2003. 35 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In accordance with SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," the Company also establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental and other assets it maintains. Environmental assets include but are not limited to land fills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds. When these types of assets are constructed, a reserve is established for the future environmental remediation anticipated to be associated with the closure of the site based on an expected life of the environmental assets. These future expenses are accreted into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets. Currently, the Company estimates the useful life of each individual asset up to 50 years. If the Company changes its estimate of the asset retirement obligation costs o r its estimate of the useful lives of these assets, the future expenses to be accreted into earnings could increase or decrease. The Companys reserve for environmental contingencies was $61 million, $60 million, and $54 million at December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for asset retirement obligation costs, the amount accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives. For additional information see Note 1, 11 and 23 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Schedule II, "Valuation and Qualifying Accounts." United States Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. Additionally, Eastman provides life insurance and health care benefits for eligible retirees and health care benefits for retirees eligible survivors. The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect the Companys assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase for employees and health care cost trends. At December 31, 2003, the Company assumed a discount rate of 6.25%; an expected return on assets of 9%; a rate of compensation increase of 3.75%; and an initial health care cost trend of 10%. The cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions incl uding retirements, mortality, turnover and plan participation. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in the expected return on assets and assumed discount rate for U.S. pension plans and other postretirement welfare plans: Change in Assumption Impact on 2004 Pre tax U.S. Pension Expense Impact on December 31, 2003 Projected Benefit Obligation for U.S. Pension Plans Impact on December 31, 2003 Benefit Obligation for Other U.S. Postretirement Plans 25 basis point decrease in discount rate +$5 Million +$48 Million +$28 Million 25 basis point increase in discount rate $5 Million $46 Million $27 Million 25 basis point decrease in expected return on assets +$2 Million No Impact N/A 25 basis point increase in expected return on assets $2 Million No Impact N/A 36 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The expected return on assets and assumed discount rate used to calculate the Companys pension and other postemployment benefit obligations are established each December 31. The expected return on assets is based upon the long term expected returns in the markets in which the pension trust invests its funds, primarily the domestic, international, and private equities markets. The assumed discount rate is based upon an index of high quality, long term corporate borrowing rates. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the difference is recorded as an unrecognized gain (loss) and then amortized into earnings over a period of time, which may cause the cost of providing these benefits to increase or decrease. The charges applied to earnings in 2003, 2002, and 2001 due to the amort ization of unrecognized actuarial losses were $32 million, $20 million, and $8 million, respectively. The Company does not anticipate that a change in pension and other post employment obligations caused by a change in the assumed discount rate will impact the cash contributions to be made to the pension plans during 2004. However, an after tax charge or credit will be recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, as of December 31, 2004 for the impact on the pensions projected benefit obligation of the change in interest rates, if any. While the amount of the change in these obligations does not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication of the amount the Company will be required to contribute to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such cash contributions is dependent upon intere st rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, and other factors. For additional information see Note 9 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos; patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes the amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company. 2003 OVERVIEW Over the past several years, key determinants of profitability for the Company have included: generally slow economic growth, particularly for manufacturing; fluctuations in raw material and energy costs, with those costs increasing substantially in late 2002 and remaining at historically high levels during 2003; and the ability to obtain sales price increases for the Companys products necessary to preserve or expand margins. In addition, many of the markets that Eastman serves have been impacted by substantial capacity additions that led to lower capacity utilization levels, limiting the ability to obtain sales price increases for some of the Companys products. As a result, the Companys gross profit has been negatively impacted. In 2003, the Companys gross profit was negatively impacted by approximately $100 million compared to 2002 due to higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by higher selling prices. In 2002, the Companys gross profit was negatively impacted by approximately $100 million compared to 2001 due to selling prices declining more than raw material costs, partially offset by higher sales volumes. In both years, the Company implemented various cost reduction efforts to improve profitability. Eastman has also recorded significant impairment and restructuring charges. In 2003, the Company recognized $489 million of asset impairments and restructuring charges and $34 million of goodwill impairments. In 2002 and 2001, such charges were $5 million and $396 million, respectively. These charges were primarily the result of restructuring, divestiture and consolidation actions. The Company continues to implement a number of initiatives to improve profitability and cash flows. These include: Continued portfolio evaluation across the Company, particularly in the Eastman Division, with the expectation that some product lines will be removed from the portfolio; 37 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation actions in the CASPI segment; Narrowing the focus for the Developing Businesses Division, resulting in improved operating results; and Cost and working capital reduction efforts throughout the Company. In addition, the Company has and continues to maintain a number of commitments which demonstrate financial discipline. These include: Capital expenditures to be no more than depreciation and amortization; The combination of sales and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses will be at or below 10 percent of sales revenue; Priorities for use of available cash from operations are to pay the quarterly cash dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings, and fund targeted growth initiatives such as small acquisitions and other ventures. The Company anticipates profitability and operating cash flows to improve in 2004 due to the actions being taken in the CASPI segment, improved results in the Developing Businesses segment, and generally improved economic conditions. In addition, the Company expects raw material and energy costs to increase slightly in 2004 compared with 2003, and that the ability to obtain sales price increases will be a key driver of profitability. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2003 COMPARED WITH 2002 The Companys results of operations as presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report are summarized and analyzed below: Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2003 2002 Operating earnings (loss) $ (267) $ 208 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (273) 79 Net earnings (loss) (270) 61 Earnings (loss) per share Basic (3.50) 0.79 Diluted (3.50) 0.79 Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 489 5 Goodwill impairments 34 Other operating income (33) 38 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating results for 2003 declined to a loss of $267 million compared to operating earnings for 2002 of $208 million. The decline in operating earnings was primarily attributable to asset impairments and restructuring charges and goodwill impairments of $489 million and $34 million, respectively. Other operating income related to a gain of $20 million for the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastics assets, which were formerly a part of the SP segment, and a gain of $13 million for the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets, which were formerly part of the CASPI segment. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs partially offset by higher selling prices had a negative impact on gross profit of approximately $100 million. Continued cost reduction efforts and favorable foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact on earnings. Other factors impacting operating earnings for 2003 include: a reduction in costs of approximately $40 million as a result of the previously reported change in vacation policy which was part of cost reduction measures implemented by the Company in the first quarter 2003. a gain of approximately $14 million from the insurance settlement related to the previously disclosed 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina facilities; increased pension and other post employment benefits expense of approximately $25 million. lower depreciation and amortization expense of $30 million. Operating results for 2002 were negatively impacted by several items: approximately $39 million due to operational disruptions at the Companys Columbia, South Carolina and Rotterdam, the Netherlands facilities; costs pertaining to asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlement and other write offs recorded in 2002 totaling approximately $17 million; an unfavorable shift in product mix; and asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $5 million (as described more fully below and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements). Net earnings for 2002 included the write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments and a loss of $12 million due to re measurement of an Argentine peso denominated tax receivable. (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 5,800 $ 5,320 9 % (1) % 5 % 1 % 4 % Sales revenue increased for 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to increased selling prices, particularly for the polymers and the PCI segments, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, of $275 million and $192 million, respectively. The increase in selling prices was primarily in response to an increase in raw material and energy costs. The Company plans to implement additional price increases in 2004 as needed to offset additional increases in raw material and energy costs. (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Gross Profit $ 810 $ 779 4 % As a percentage of sales 14.0 % 14.6 % Gross profit for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices, continued cost reduction efforts, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. The higher raw material and energy costs were primarily attributable to the following raw materials: propane, paraxylene, ethylene glycol, and natural gas. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of sales is attributable to higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by selling price increases and had a negative impact on gross profit of approximately $100 million. 39 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company expects that higher raw material and energy costs will continue to negatively impact gross profit during 2004, mitigated to the extent the Company is able to continue to offset this impact in part through higher selling prices for certain of its products and through various cost reduction measures. An insurance settlement of approximately $14 million related to the previously reported 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina had a positive impact on gross profit in 2003. In 2002, the same operational disruptions had a negative impact of $39 million. The Company continues to implement a variety of cost control measures to manage discretionary spending. Of the measures taken, a change in vacation policy favorably impacted 2003 results by approximately $40 million. This change in vacation policy is not expected to have a significant impact on 2004 results. The Company expects that the other cost control measures implemented during 2003 will continue to positively impact its results in 2004. The Company is also working on other measures to improve its cost structure and profitability. Included in that effort is a review of the Companys portfolio of products and businesses, primarily in the Eastman Division. The Company expects during 2004 to continue to identify and pursue implementation of restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation alternatives for certain identified portions of the CASPI segment to improve profitability. (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Selling and General Administrative Expenses (S&GA) $ 414 $ 407 2 % Research and Development Expenses (R&D) 173 159 9 % $ 587 $ 566 As a percentage of sales 10.1% 10.6% The increase in S&GA expenses for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher costs associated with the Companys growth initiatives, including the business building efforts within the Developing Businesses segment. R&D expenses for 2003 were higher compared to 2002 primarily due to the Companys increased efforts to develop certain operational efficiencies and efforts associated with new business initiatives. In 2004, the Company expects combined costs related to S&GA expenses and R&D expenses will be at or below 10% of sales revenue. 40 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net Impairments and restructuring charges totaled $523 million during 2003, with non cash asset impairments of $500 million and restructuring charges of $23 million. The following table summarizes the 2003 and 2002 charges: (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Eastman Division Segments: CASPI Segment: Fixed asset impairments $ 195 $ 2 Intangible asset impairments 175 Goodwill impairments 34 Severance charges 13 Site closure costs 3 3 PCI Segment: Fixed asset impairments 95 (1) Severance charges 4 SP Segment Severance charges 1 Total Eastman Division 520 4 Voridian Division Segments: Polymers Segment: Fixed asset impairments 1 1 Severance charges 1 Fibers Segment: Severance charges 1 Total Voridian Division 3 1 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 523 $ 5 Total asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 489 5 Total goodwill impairments 34 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 523 $ 5 CASPI Segment 2003 In the third quarter, the Company reorganized the operating structure within its CASPI segment and changed the segments business strategy in response to the financial performance of certain underlying product lines. Those product lines include inks and resins and monomers, as more fully described under "Item 1 Business." Prior to the third quarter 2003, management was pursuing growth strategies aimed at significantly improving the financial performance of these product groups. However, due to the continued operating losses and deteriorating market conditions, management decided to pursue alternative strategies including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation. This change affected both the manner in which certain assets are used and the financial outlook for these product gr oups, thus triggering the impairments and certain restructuring charges. 41 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The third quarter fixed asset impairments charges of $194 million primarily related to assets associated with the above mentioned product groups, and primarily impacted manufacturing sites in the North American and European regions that were part of the Lawter International, Inc. ("Lawter"), McWhorter Technologies, Inc. ("McWhorter"), and Chemicke Zavody Sokolov ("Sokolov") acquisitions. Within these product lines, nine sites in North America and six sites in Europe were impaired. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the assets, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal. The third quarter intangible asset impairments charges related to definite lived intangible assets of approximately $128 million and indefinite lived intangibles of approximately $47 million. The definite lived intangibles related primarily to developed technology and customer lists, and the indefinite lived intangibles primarily related to trademarks. These intangible assets were primarily associated with the acquisitions of Lawter and McWhorter. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the definite lived intangible assets, these assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal. Indefinite lived intangible assets were written down to fair value, as established by appraisal. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Company defined "reporting units" as one level below the operating segment level and considered the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. This resulted in the CASPI segment being deemed a single reporting unit. In the third quarter 2003, the reorganization of the operating structure within the CASPI segment resulted in new reporting units one level below the operating segment. Due to the change in strategy and lack of similar economic characteristics, these reporting units did not meet the criteria necessary for aggregation. As a result, the goodwill associated with the CASPI segment was reassigned to the new reporting units based upon relative fair values. The reporting unit that contai ned the above mentioned product lines was assigned $34 million of goodwill out of the total CASPI segment goodwill of $333 million. Because the Company determined that this reporting unit could no longer support the carrying value of its assigned goodwill, the full amount of that goodwill was impaired. The fair value of the other reporting unit within CASPI was sufficient to support the carrying value of the remainder of the goodwill. In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized fixed asset impairments and site closure costs of $1 million and $3 million, respectively. The fixed asset impairments relate to additional impairments associated with the CASPI reorganization, as discussed above. The site closure charges relate primarily to additional costs related to the closure of the Companys Dusseldorf manufacturing site. Severance charges of $13 million for 2003 are discussed in further detail below. 2002 A change in estimate for site closure costs for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon resulted in a $1 million credit to earnings in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized restructuring charges of approximately $4 million related to closure of plants in Duesseldorf, Germany; Rexdale, Canada; and LaVergne, Tennessee; and additionally recognized an asset impairment charge of approximately $2 million related to certain other European assets. PCI Segment 2003 In the second quarter, the Company recorded an asset impairments charge of approximately $15 million related to the impairment of certain fixed assets used in certain of the PCI segments performance chemicals product lines that are located in Llangefni, Wales. In response to industry conditions, during the second quarter 2003 the Company revised its strategy and the earnings forecast for the products manufactured by these assets. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the asset, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by discounted future cash flows of the impacted assets. 42 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In the third and fourth quarter, the PCI segment incurred charges of $80 million related to the impairment of fixed assets used in certain commodity and performance chemicals product lines as a result of increased competition and changes in business strategy in response to a change in market conditions and the financial performance of these product lines. Within the commodity product lines, the fixed asset impairments charge related to assets at the Sokolov, Czech Republic facility. Within the specialty organic chemicals product lines, the fixed asset impairments charge related to assets located at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility. Severance charges of $4 million for 2003 are discussed in further detail below. 2002 In the fourth quarter, a net $1 million credit to earnings was recorded due to a $2 million credit associated with previously impaired fine chemicals product lines assets, and a charge of $1 million related to impaired assets used in certain research and development activities. SP Segment Severance charges of $1 million for 2003 are discussed in further detail below. Polymers Segment 2003 In the fourth quarter, an asset impairment charge of $1 million was recorded related to certain research and development assets classified as held for sale. The fair value of these assets was determined using the estimated proceeds from sale less cost to sell. Severance charges of $1 million for 2003 are discussed in further detail below. 2002 In 2002, the Company recorded charges related to the write down of underperforming polyethylene assets totaling approximately $1 million. Severance Charges 2003 In the first half of the year, severance costs of $3 million were incurred within the CASPI segment related primarily to consolidation and restructuring activities and changes in previously accrued amounts. In the third quarter, the Company recognized $14 million in restructuring charges related to the actual and probable involuntary separations of approximately 300 employees. These workforce reductions are the result of decisions made as part of the restructuring of the CASPI segment discussed above, the Companys annual budgeting process, and site closure costs associated with the PCI segment. During the fourth quarter, severance charges were recorded in the CASPI and Fibers segment totaling $2 million and $1 million, respectively, due to the ongoing restructuring of the CASPI segment an d the annual budgeting process discussed above. During 2003, terminations related to actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 500 employees. As of the end of 2003, approximately 350 of these terminations had occurred, with the remaining primarily relating to previously announced consolidation and restructuring activities of certain European CASPI manufacturing sites that will be completed in early 2004. 43 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes the charges and changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges, the noncash reductions attributable to asset impairments and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid: (Dollars in millions) Balance at January 1, 2002 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2002 Noncash charges $ $ 2 $ (2) $ $ Severance costs 10 2 (10) 2 Site closure costs 13 3 (9) 7 Total $ 23 $ 7 $ (2) $ (19) $ 9 Balance at January 1, 2003 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2003 Noncash charges $ $ 500 $ (500) $ $ Severance costs 2 20 (12) 10 Site closure costs 7 3 (5) 5 Total $ 9 $ 523 $ (500) $ (17) $ 15 Substantially all severance and site closure costs are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year. Other Operating Income (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Other operating income (33) Other operating income for 2003 totaled approximately $33 million and reflected gains of approximately $20 million on the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastic assets in first quarter, and approximately $13 million on the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets in fourth quarter. These items were reflected within the SP and CASPI segments, respectively. Interest Expense, Net (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Gross interest costs $ 133 $ 132 Less: capitalized interest 3 4 Interest expense 130 128 2 % Interest income 6 6 Interest expense, net $ 124 $ 122 2 % Slightly higher gross interest costs for 2003 compared to 2002 reflected higher average debt levels due to bond offerings in June and November, with total proceeds of $495 million, in anticipation of the maturity of $500 million of 6 3/8% bonds due January 15, 2004, that were partially offset by lower average interest rates. For more information on the new bond issues and post year end bond retirements, see Notes 7 and 24 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. For 2004, the Company expects net interest expense to decrease compared to 2003 due to lower expected gross interest costs as a result of lower average interest rates on borrowings and anticipated lower average borrowings. 44 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other (Income) Charges, net (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Other income $ (28) $ (14) Other charges 18 16 Other (income) charges, net $ (10) $ 2 Included in other income are the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of non operating assets, royalty income, net gains on foreign exchange transactions and other miscellaneous items. Included in other charges are net losses on foreign exchange transactions, the Companys portion of losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables and other miscellaneous items. Other income for 2003 primarily reflects net gains on foreign exchange transactions of $13 million and the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $10 million. Other charges for 2003 consist primarily of writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $4 million, fees on securitized receivables of $3 million, and other miscellaneous charges. Other income for 2002 primarily reflected $9 million of earnings from the Companys equity investment in Genencor, net of a restructuring charge of $5 million. Additionally, other income included a net gain on foreign exchange transactions of $4 million. Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $8 million and fees on securitized receivables of $4 million. For more information on the Companys equity investment in Genencor, see "Item 1 Business Investments" and Notes 1 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (108) $ 5 N/A Effective tax rate 28% 5% The 2003 tax rate of 28% was impacted primarily by the treatment of the asset impairments and restructuring charges resulting in a lower expected tax benefit in certain foreign jurisdictions. This, coupled with non deductible goodwill impairments, resulted in an effective tax benefit rate lower than the statutory rate. The 2002 effective tax rate was reduced by a net credit of $17 million resulting from the favorable resolution of prior periods tax contingencies, by a reduction in international taxes related to the implementation of the Companys divisional structure, and the elimination of nondeductible goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142. In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from a foreign sales corporation or extraterritorial income exclusion, and management expects these benefits to continue into 2004. The Company also expects its effective tax rate in 2004 will be between approximately 30% and 33%. 45 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net $ 3 $ (18) SFAS No. 143 As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," at January 1, 2003, the Company recognized existing asset retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of adoption, asset retirement costs capitalized as an increase to the carrying amount of the associated long lived asset and accumulated depreciation on those capitalized costs. As a result of adoption of this standard, the Company recognized an after tax credit to earnings of $3 million during the first quarter 2003, primarily related to a reduction in certain environmental liabilities. If the asset retirement obligation measurement and recognition provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been in effect on January 1, 2002, the aggregate carrying amount of those obligations on that date would have been $27 million. If the amortization of asset retirement cost and accretion of asset retirement obligation provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been in effect during 2002, the impact on "Earnings before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle" in 2002 would have been immaterial. SFAS No. 142 The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," effective January 1, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 142 prohibit the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets; require that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment; require reporting units to be identified for the purpose of assessing potential future impairments of goodwill; and remove the forty year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite lives. In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows, was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an after tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter of 2002 to reflect lower than previously expected cash flows from certain related products. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), and Retained Earnings as the cumulative effect of a change in accountin g principle. Additionally, the Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible assets related to assembled workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January 1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. The Company plans to continue its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter of each year, unless events warrant more frequent testing. In 2003, the Company impaired certain goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the CASPI segment as discussed in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the Company completed its annual impairment review of the remaining goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. No further impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets was required due to this review. 46 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT The Companys products and operations are managed and reported in three divisions comprising six operating segments. Eastman Division consists of the CASPI segment, the PCI segment and the SP segment. Voridian Division contains the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment. The Developing Businesses Division consists of the Developing Businesses segment. The divisional structure allows the Company to align costs more directly with the activities and businesses that generate them. The Companys divisional structure allows it to align costs more directly with the activities and businesses that generate them. Goods and services are transferred between the divisions at predetermined prices that may be in excess of cost. Accordingly, the divisional structure results in the recognition of interdivisional sales revenue and operating earnings. Such interdivisional transactions are eliminated in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Prior to 2002, segment sales revenue reflected only actual sales to third parties and the intersegment transfer of goods and services, recorded at cost, had no impact on segment earnings. The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks and graphic arts, adhesives and other markets. The CASPI segments products consist of binders and resins, liquid vehicles, additives, unsaturated polyester resins and polyester and acrylic emulsions. Binders and resins, such as alkyd and polyester resins, hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters, are used in adhesives and as key components in paints and inks to form a protective coating or film, and bind color to the substrate. Liquid vehicles, such as ester, ketone and alcohol solvents, maintain the binders in liquid form for ease of application. Additives, such as cellulosic polymers, Texanol ester alcohol and chlorinated polyolefins , provide different properties or performance enhancements to the end product. Unsaturated polyester resins are used primarily in gel coats and fiberglass reinforced plastics. Polyester and acrylic emulsions are traditionally used as textile sizes to protect fibers during processing in textile manufacturing, and the technology is also used in water based paints, coatings and inks. Additional products are developed in response to, or in anticipation of, new applications where the Company believes significant value can be achieved. The PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates. The PCI segment also offers custom manufacturing services through its custom synthesis business. The SP segments key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products. Included in these are highly specialized copolyesters, cellulosic plastics and compounded polyethylene plastics that possess unique performance properties for value added end uses such as appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronics and electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics, performance films, tape and labels, biodegradeables, cups and lids, fiber and strapping, photographic and optical film, graphic arts and general packaging. The Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers for use in beverage and food packaging and other applications such as custom care and cosmetics packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and industrial. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging a wide variety of products including carbonated soft drinks, water, beer and personal care items and food containers that are suitable for both conventional and microwave oven use. The Polymers segment also manufactures low density polyethylene and linear low density polyethylene, which are used primarily in extrusion coating, film and molding applications. The Fibers segment manufactures Estron acetate tow and Estrobond triacetin plasticizers which are used primarily in cigarette filters; Estron and Chromspun acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; acetate flake for use by other acetate tow producers; and acetyl chemicals. 47 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Developing Businesses segment includes new businesses and certain investments in non traditional growth opportunities that leverage the Companys technology expertise, intellectual property and know how into business models that extend to new customers and markets. The segment includes, among other new and developing businesses, Cendian Corporation ("Cendian"), a logistics provider for chemical companies; Ariel Research Corporation ("Ariel"), a provider of international chemical and regulatory compliance solutions for environmental, health and safety operations; and Eastmans gasification services. Effective January 1, 2003, sales and operating results for developing businesses activities were moved from the CASPI, PCI and SP segments to the Developing Businesses segment. During 2002, these amounts were included within the CASPI, PCI, and SP segments. During 2001, these amounts had been split among all segments. Accordingly, the prior year amounts for sales and operating earnings have been reclassified for all periods presented. These revisions had no effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. For additional information concerning an analysis of the results of the Companys operating segments, see Note 20 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report. 48 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EASTMAN DIVISION CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 1,597 $ 1,540 4 % Volume effect (6) % Price effect 2 % Product mix effect 3 % Exchange rate effect 5 % Interdivisional sales N/A Operating earnings (loss) (358) 58 N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 386 5 Goodwill impairments 34 Other operating income (13) 2003 Compared With 2002 The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, improved product mix, and slightly higher selling prices that more than offset a decrease in sales volume. Foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact on sales revenue of $74 million primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. A favorable shift in product mix towards higher priced products had a positive impact on sales revenue of $48 million. Additionally, higher selling prices, as a result of increased raw material and energy costs had a positive impact on sales revenues of $29 million. The decline in sales volume, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $93 million, was primarily attributable to forgoing sales of certain low margin p roducts and restructuring and divestiture actions that were taken during the year. Operating earnings for 2003 declined significantly compared to 2002 primarily due to the asset impairments and restructuring charges and goodwill impairments related to this segment of $386 million and $34 million, respectively. Higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volume, which were partially offset by higher selling prices, cost reduction measures, and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates contributed to the decrease in operating earnings. Additionally, a gain of approximately $13 million from the sale of the segments colorant product lines contributed to earnings. For more information on the asset impairments and restructuring charges, see the discussion of impairments and restructuring charges above and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated fi nancial statements. For 2004, the Company expects restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities and continuing cost reduction efforts to contribute approximately $50 million to operating results. 49 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 1,184 $ 1,084 9 % Volume effect % Price effect 7 % Product mix effect % Exchange rate effect 2 % Interdivisional sales 495 383 29 % Operating loss (89) 14 N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 99 (1) 2003 Compared With 2002 The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. The increase in selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $78 million and was primarily attributable to oxo chemical prices that increased in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Foreign currency exchange rates also had a positive impact on sales revenue of $23 million primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2003 was primarily due to higher selling prices as a result of higher raw material and energy costs. The decrease in operating earnings 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charge of approximately $99 million. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs were largely offset by higher selling prices and cost reduction measures. For more information on the asset impairments and restructuring charges see the discussion of impairments and restructuring charges above and Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Long term, the Company expects that aggressive management of costs in the PCI segment will help improve margins and position it to take full advantage of the upturn expected in the 2005 through 2006 timeframe. The PCI segment is aggressively identifying and implementing projects to reduce costs and improve performance. During 2001, the Company reported that a large customer of the PCI segment did not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30, 2002. As a consequence, impairment charges totaling approximately $70 million related to the impacted assets were recorded during 2001 as part of the restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines. Subsequently, the customer initiated discussions with the Company which resulted in two amendments to the agreement to extend the custom synthesis product contract through June 2004 based on renegotiated terms. Effective July 1, 2003, Eastman and the customer entered into a multi year agreement in which the Company will remain the sole global supplier for the customers custom synthesis product. 50 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 559 $ 528 6 % Volume effect 1 % Price effect % Product mix effect 1 % Exchange rate effect 4 % Interdivisional sales 49 45 9 % Operating earnings 63 34 85 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1 Other operating income 20 2003 Compared With 2002 External sales revenue for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates. These shifts, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro, contributed $20 million of the increased sales revenue. Additionally, slight increases in sales volume and some improvement in product mix contributed to the overall increase in revenues. Operating earnings for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to a gain of $20 million on the sale of the segments high performance crystalline plastics assets, cost reduction measures, and favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs. New competitors in Asia and Europe continue to negatively impact results for copolyesters. However, the Company is committed to maintaining cost advantages obtained from its scale of operations and manufacturing experience and to increasing utilization of its current capacity. This could result in consolidation and restructuring within the segments manufacturing facilities. 51 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS VORIDIAN DIVISION Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 1,756 $ 1,510 16 % Volume effect 2 % Price effect 11 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 4 % Interdivisional sales 68 55 23 % Operating earnings (loss) 62 35 77 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 2 1 2003 Compared With 2002 The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $162 million. A favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, also had a positive impact on sales revenue of $60 million. Additionally, new industry capacity in North America that began production earlier in 2003 than the Company had anticipated resulted in a smaller than expected increase in sales revenue from volume. Operating earnings for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to a $14 million insurance settlement in 2003 related to 2002 operational disruptions that had a negative impact of $39 million on operating earnings in 2002. Other factors impacting operating earnings included higher selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, and the positive impact of a favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily for the euro. The positive shifts in selling prices and foreign currency exchange rates were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs, added PET polymers capacity in North America, which negatively impacted volumes, and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million. For 2004, the Polymers segment expects to maintain its focus on lowering costs and, for its PET polymers product lines, growing along with overall market demand growth. Longer term, the Company expects global demand for PET polymers to grow at an average rate of approximately 10% annually over the next several years. 52 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 635 $ 642 (1) % Volume effect 4 % Price effect 1 % Product mix effect (9) % Exchange rate effect 3 % Interdivisional sales 80 72 10 % Operating earnings 125 133 (6) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1 2003 Compared With 2002 The slight decrease in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $57 million. The unfavorable shift in product mix was primarily due to a decrease in sales of acetate tow in North America partially offset by increased sales of acetate tow in other parts of the world. The shift in product mix was mostly offset by increases in sales volume, primarily for acetyl chemicals, and favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily for the euro, of $28 million and $16 million, respectively. The decline in operating earnings for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily due to a decline of acetate tow demand in North America that was partially offset by increased acetate tow demand in other parts of the world. 53 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DEVELOPING BUSINESSES DIVISION Developing Businesses Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 69 $ 16 &gt;100 % Interdivisional sales 396 330 20 % Operating loss (65) (70) 7 % 2003 Compared With 2002 The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to the continued implementation of customer contracts by Cendian and the implementation of gasification services contracts. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to geographic expansion of the logistics services provided by Cendian to Eastman Division and Voridian Division. Operating results for the Developing Businesses segment improved in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily due to improved operating performance at Cendian that was partially offset by higher costs associated with other growth initiatives. For 2004, the Company expects the operating loss in the Developing Businesses Division to be less than $45 million. 54 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2003 COMPARED WITH 2002 Sales Revenue (excluding interdivisional sales) (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect United States and Canada $ 3,302 $ 3,040 9 % 1 % 7 % 1 % % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,368 1,170 17 % (1) % % 2 % 16 % Asia Pacific 643 636 1 % (5) % 3 % 2 % 1 % Latin America 487 474 3 % (7) % 11 % % (1) % $ 5,800 $ 5,320 The increase in sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $206 million. The higher selling prices mostly related to sales of intermediates chemicals, PET polymers, and polyethylene, and were primarily in response to increases in raw material and energy costs. 2003 sales revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa increased compared to 2002 due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $191 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. 2003 sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region increased slightly compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in product mix that was offset by lower sales volume. Higher selling prices, particularly for intermediates products and PET polymers, and a favorable shift in product mix contributed $22 million and $13 million, respectively, to sales revenue. Lower sales volume, particularly for the PCI and Fibers segments, had a negative impact on sales revenue of $33 million. 2003 sales revenue in Latin America increased slightly compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices, primarily related to PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $52 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in sales volume, primarily attributable to lower sales of PET polymers and PCI segment intermediates chemicals, in the amount of approximately $34 million. With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States of America, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars and euros. In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate. For more information on these practices, see Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Part II Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 55 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2002 COMPARED WITH 2001 Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 Operating earnings (loss) $ 208 $ (120) Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 79 (175) Net earnings (loss) 61 (175) Earnings (loss) per share Basic 0.79 (2.28) Diluted 0.79 (2.28) Asset impairments and restructuring charges 5 396 Other operating expense 50 Other items 20 Operating earnings for 2002 increased compared to 2001 primarily due to a decrease in asset impairments and restructuring charges. In addition, operating earnings for 2002 were significantly impacted by lower selling prices for all of the Companys segments. Such selling prices decreased more than raw material costs, resulting in a reduction in gross profit of approximately $100 million. Higher sales volumes and lower unit costs resulting from increased capacity utilization had a positive impact on operating earnings for 2002. In addition, operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by: approximately $39 million due to operational disruptions at the Companys Columbia, South Carolina and Rotterdam, the Netherlands facilities; costs pertaining to asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs recorded in the fourth quarter 2002 totaling approximately $17 million; an unfavorable shift in product mix; and asset impairments and restructuring charges (as described more fully below and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements) totaling approximately $5 million. Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by: asset impairments and restructuring charges and other operating expense totaling approximately $446 million (as described more fully below and in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements); and the effect of amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets totaling approximately $20 million. (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 5,320 $ 5,390 (1)% 7% (7)% (2)% 1% Sales revenue for 2002 declined slightly compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices for all of the Companys segments which had a negative impact on revenues of $351 million. The decline in selling prices is indicative of the Companys inability to increase its selling prices for some of its products, and also of a persistently sluggish global economy, particularly for manufacturers. Increased sales volumes for all of the Companys segments had a positive impact on sales revenue of $359 million. 56 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Gross Profit $ 779 $ 893 (13)% As a percentage of sales 14.6% 16.6% Decreased selling prices had a negative impact on gross profit for 2002 of $351 million that were mostly offset by decreased raw material costs. Operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina negatively impacted gross profit by approximately $39 million. Fourth quarter 2002 asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $17 million also had a negative impact on gross profit. (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Selling and General Administrative Expenses $ 407 $ 407 % Research and Development Expenses 159 160 (1)% $ 566 $ 567 As a percentage of sales 10.6% 10.5% S&GA expenses for 2002 were flat compared to 2001 even though costs related to the Companys growth initiatives increased from $35 million in 2001 to approximately $50 million in 2002. This increase was offset by cost control efforts. R&D expenses for 2002 were flat compared to 2001. The combined expenditures of S&GA and R&D for both 2002 and 2001 were below the commitment by the Company to contain these expenditures at or below 11% of sales revenues. Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net The following table summarizes the asset impairment and restructuring charges for 2002 and 2001: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Eastman Division Segments: CASPI Segment: Fixed asset impairments $ 2 $ 59 Severance charges 8 Site closure costs 3 10 PCI Segment: Fixed asset impairments (1) 69 Severance charges 3 Site closure costs 1 SP Segment Fixed asset impairments 15 Total Eastman Division 4 165 Voridian Division Segments: Polymers Segment: Fixed asset impairments 1 123 Termination of raw material supply agreement 108 Total Voridian Division 1 231 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 5 $ 396 57 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CASPI Segment 2002 A change in estimate for site closure costs for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon resulted in a $1 million credit to earnings in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized restructuring charges of approximately $4 million related to closure of plants in Duesseldorf, Germany; Rexdale, Canada; and LaVergne, Tennessee; and additionally recognized an asset impairment charge of approximately $2 million related to certain other European assets. 2001 In the second quarter, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $20 million related to the closure of plants in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon that were obtained in the acquisition of McWhorter Technologies, Inc. ("McWhorter"). In the third quarter, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $21 million related to the closure of a Moundville, Alabama plant that was obtained in the acquisition of Lawter International, Inc. In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $27 million related to the closure of an operating site in Duesseldorf, Germany. Also in the fourth quarter, charges of approximately $6 million and $3 million, respectively, were recognized related to the impairment of other operating assets in Savannah, Georgia and Banbury, England. The restructuring charges included write downs of the fixed assets at these facilities, severance accruals for employees impacted by the plant shutdowns, and other costs associated with closing the facilities. The Philadelphia and Portland facilities were closed in 2001, and the Moundville, Duesseldorf and Banbury sites closed in 2002. The Savannah site closed in 2003. The fair value of the impacted assets was determined using the discounted estimated net cash flows related to the products produced by the impacted assets. PCI Segment 2002 In the fourth quarter, a net $1 million credit to earnings was recorded due to a $2 million credit associated with previously impaired fine chemicals product lines assets, and a charge of $1 million related to impaired assets used in certain research and development activities. 2001 As a part of the restructuring of the Companys fine chemicals product lines, Eastman recorded restructuring charges, including related asset write downs, totaling approximately $70 million in 2001. These charges resulted from the Companys on going restructuring of its fine chemicals product lines to reduce costs, and from the write down of assets determined to be impaired. The restructuring initiative and related asset impairments involve manufacturing sites within the United States at Tennessee and Arkansas, Llangefni, Wales, and Hong Kong. Charges in the fourth quarter and the third quarter of $1 million and $6 million, respectively, pertained primarily to severance accruals for employees impacted by the plant shutdowns, closure costs and write downs of fixed assets. Charges totaling approximately $63 million recorded during the second quarter related to certain fine chemicals product lines that did not fit the Companys long term strategic objectives and for assets determined to be impaired. 58 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The impairments at the foreign sites included the write down of fixed assets and other long term deposits. The restructuring and asset impairments at the domestic sites primarily pertained to write downs of fixed assets, net of the effect of a reversal of a customer deposit, related to a custom synthesis product contract. In 2001, the Company reported that a large customer of the PCI segment did not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30, 2002. As a consequence, impairment charges totaling approximately $70 million related to the impacted assets were recorded during 2001 as part of the restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines. These assets were written down to fair value in the second quarter of 2001 using discounted estimated net cash flows from co ntracts that were currently in effect. Subsequently, the customer initiated discussions with the Company which resulted in two amendments to the agreement to extend the custom synthesis product contract through June 2004 based on renegotiated terms. Effective July 1, 2003, Eastman and the customer entered into a multi year agreement in which the Company will remain the sole global supplier for the customers custom synthesis product. Also during 2001, PCI incurred asset impairment charges of $3 million for certain European assets. The fair value of these assets was determined using the discounted estimated cash flows related to the products produced by these assets. SP Segment During 2001, Specialty Plastics incurred $15 million related to deterioration of demand for certain specialty plastics products produced in Kingsport, Tennessee. The fair value of these assets was determined using the discounted estimated cash flows related to the products produced by these assets. Polymers Segment 2002 In 2002, the Company recorded charges related to the write down of underperforming polyethylene assets totaling approximately $1 million. 2001 During the second quarter, Eastman terminated an agreement with a supplier that guaranteed the Companys right to buy a specified quantity of a certain raw material annually through 2007 at prices determined by the pricing formula specified in the agreement. In prior years, the Company paid a total of $239 million to the supplier and deferred those costs to be amortized over the 15 year period during which the product was to be received. The Company began amortizing those costs in 1993 and had recorded accumulated amortization of $131 million at March 31, 2001. As a result of the termination of this agreement, a charge of $108 million, representing unamortized deferred cost, was charged to the Polymers segments earnings during the second quarter 2001 as no continuing economic benefits wi ll be received pertaining to this contract. Also during the second quarter, management identified and announced certain assets that were intended to be spun off at year end 2001 related to the Companys efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses. An indirect result of these decisions would have been that the continuing operations would have been required to purchase certain raw materials and utilities that were historically produced internally for use in the manufacture of polyethylene. Considering the purchase price of these raw materials and utilities, the carrying value of certain assets used to consume ethylene at the Longview, Texas facility in the manufacture of polyethylene exceeded the expected future cash flows attributable to such assets. Subsequent to the second quarter, the spin off was canceled. However, management determined that the continued operation of these assets was not economically attractive. Based upon the resulting cash flows from the probable future use of these assets, an impairment loss of $103 million was charged to the Polymers segments earnings during the second quarter 2001. The impairment represents the excess of the carrying value over the discounted estimated future cash flows related to the products produced by the impacted assets. 59 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Also during 2001, the Company recorded asset impairment charges related to under utilized assets including $10 million related to the discontinuation of the precolored green PET polymers product line in Kingsport, Tennessee; and $10 million related to cessation of production at the Companys solid stating facility in Toronto, Ontario. The fair value of these assets was determined using the discounted estimated cash flows related to the products produced by these assets. The following table summarizes the charges and changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges, the noncash reductions attributable to asset impairments and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid: Balance at January 1, 2001 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2001 Noncash charges $ $ 373 $ (373) $ $ Severance costs 16 (6) 10 Site closure costs 10 10 (7) 13 Total $ 10 $ 399 $ (373) $ (13) $ 23 (Dollars in millions) Balance at January 1, 2002 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2002 Noncash charges $ $ 2 $ (2) $ $ Severance costs 10 2 (10) 2 Site closure costs 13 3 (9) 7 Total $ 23 $ 7 $ (2) $ (19) $ 9 Substantially all severance and site closure costs are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year. Other Operating Expense (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Other operating expense $ $ 50 Other operating expenses of $50 million were recognized in 2001. These items consisted of approximately $20 million in charges associated with efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses; an $18 million write down of accounts receivable for credit risks resulting from the devaluation of the Argentine peso; a $7 million pension settlement charge; and a $5 million write off of acquired in process research and development related to the acquisition of the hydrocarbon resins and select portions of the rosin based resins business from Hercules Incorporated ("Hercules Businesses"). Approximately $26 million of these items were reflected in the Polymers segment, $11 million in the CASPI segment, $7 million in the PCI segment, $4 million in the SP segment, and $2 million in t he Fibers segment. 60 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Interest Expense, Net (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Gross interest costs $ 132 $ 151 Less: capitalized interest 4 5 Interest expense 128 146 (12)% Interest income 6 6 Interest expense, net $ 122 $ 140 (13)% Lower interest expense for 2002 compared to 2001 reflected a net reduction in borrowings and decreases in market interest rates, partially offset by a higher interest rate on the Companys April 2002 10 year bond issue versus the interest rate on commercial paper that was outstanding during the prior period. Other (Income) Charges, net (dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Other Income $ (14) $ (11) Other Charges 16 42 Other (Income) Charges, net $ 2 $ 31 Included in other income are the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of non operating assets, royalty income, net gains on foreign exchange transactions and other miscellaneous items. Included in other charges are net losses on foreign exchange transactions, the Companys portion of losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables and other miscellaneous items. Other income for 2002 primarily reflected $9 million of earnings from the Companys equity investment in Genencor, net of a restructuring charge of $5 million. Additionally, other income included a net gain on foreign exchange transactions of $4 million. Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $8 million and fees on securitized receivables of $4 million. Other income for 2001 primarily reflected the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor. Other charges for 2001 included a $12 million charge for currency losses resulting from the devaluation of the Argentine peso, an $8 million charge for sorbates civil litigation settlement costs, and other miscellaneous items. For more information on the Companys equity investment in Genencor, see Notes 1 and 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 5 $ (116) N/A Effective tax rate 5.4% 39.8% The 2002 effective tax rate was reduced by a net credit of $17 million resulting from the favorable resolution of prior periods tax contingencies, by a reduction in international taxes related to the implementation of the Companys divisional structure, and the elimination of nondeductible goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142. The 2001 effective tax rate was impacted by the significant asset impairments and restructuring charges recorded during 2001 as described above. 61 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from a foreign sales corporation or extraterritorial income exclusion. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net $ (18) $ In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows, was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an after tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter 2002. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Retained Earnings as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Additionally, the Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible asset s related to assembled workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January 1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. For additional information regarding the effects of changes in accounting principles, see Note 23 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT EASTMAN DIVISION CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 1,540 $ 1,508 2 % Operating earnings (loss) 58 (25) N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 5 77 Other operating expense 11 2002 Compared With 2001 Sales revenue for 2002 increased moderately compared to 2001 mainly due to increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $58 million. The increase in sales volumes for 2002 was primarily due to the Hercules Businesses. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on sales revenue of $49 million. Operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $5 million as described in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges and other operating expense totaling approximately $88 million as more fully described in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating results for 2001 were also impacted by amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles totaling approximately $20 million. In addition to the items above, selling prices for 2002 declined more than raw material costs resulting in margin compression. Operating earnings for 2002 were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $5 million. 62 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 1,467 $ 1,132 30 % Operating earnings (loss) 14 (60) N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net (1) 73 Other operating expense 7 2002 Compared With 2001 Sales revenue for 2002 increased $335 million including interdivisional sales, but declined $48 million excluding interdivisional sales. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on revenues of $65 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on sales revenue of $87 million, partially offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on revenues of $65 million. The shift in product mix was primarily due to increased sales volumes of lower unit priced products, particularly glacial acetic acid in the acetyl and intermediates product group. In 2002, a change in estimate resulting in a credit of approximately $2 million related to the sale of operating assets and a charge of approximately $1 million related to impaired research and development assets, as more fully described in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, were recognized in the PCI segment. Results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $73 million and other operating expense totaling approximately $7 million, as more fully described in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, selling prices for 2002 declined more than raw material costs resulting in margin compression. Operating results for 2002 were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $3 million. During 2001, the Company reported that a large customer of the PCI segment did not intend to renew its contract for a custom synthesis product beyond June 30, 2002. As a consequence, impairment charges totaling approximately $70 million related to the impacted assets were recorded during 2001 as part of the restructuring of the fine chemicals product lines. Subsequently, the customer initiated discussions with the Company which resulted in two amendments to the agreement to extend the custom synthesis product contract through June 2004 based on renegotiated terms. Effective July 1, 2003, Eastman and the customer entered into a multi year agreement in which the Company will remain the sole global supplier for the customers custom synthesis product. 63 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 573 $ 535 7 % Operating earnings 34 51 (33)% Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 15 Other operating expense 4 2002 Compared With 2001 Sales revenue for 2002 increased $38 million compared to 2001 including interdivisional sales, but decreased $6 million excluding interdivisional sales. The decline in sales revenue excluding interdivisional sales was attributed to a decline in selling prices, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $19 million. The decline in selling prices was partially offset by increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $12 million. Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $15 million and other operating expense totaling approximately $4 million, as more fully described in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. In addition to the items above, operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by lower selling prices, mainly for cellulosic plastics products. The decline in operating earnings for 2002 was also partially due to the recognition of technology licensing revenue of $6 million that was reflected in results for 2001. New competitors in Asia and Europe negatively impacted results for copolyesters during 2002. VORIDIAN DIVISION Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 1,565 $ 1,587 (1)% Operating earnings (loss) 35 (187) N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1 231 Other operating expense 26 2002 Compared With 2001 The slight decrease in sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 was mainly due to lower selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, which had a negative impact on revenues of $207 million. Increased sales volumes, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, had a positive impact on revenues of $131 million. Interdivisional sales also had a positive impact on revenues of $55 million. Asset impairments and restructuring charges of $1 million related to impaired polyethylene assets was recognized in the fourth quarter 2002. Results for 2001 were negatively impacted by asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $231 million and other operating expense totaling approximately $26 million, as more fully described in Notes 15 and 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 64 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In addition to the items above, operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina negatively impacted operating earnings for 2002 by an estimated $39 million. Operating earnings for 2002 were also negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $3 million. Operating earnings for 2002 were positively impacted by increased sales volumes for PET polymers, lower raw material costs, and better operation and utilization of polyethylene assets. Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 714 $ 628 14 % Operating earnings 133 147 (9)% Other operating expense 2 2002 Compared With 2001 The increase in sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 was mainly due to interdivisional sales and higher sales volumes. Interdivisional sales had a positive impact on revenues of $73 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on revenues of $69 million, largely offset by an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $47 million. The unfavorable shift in product mix was due to increased sales volumes of lower unit priced products, particularly acetyl raw materials. Lower selling prices, primarily for acetyl raw materials, had a negative impact on sales revenue of $11 million. Operating earnings for 2001 were negatively impacted by other operating expense totaling approximately $2 million related to costs associated with efforts to spin off the specialty chemicals and plastics businesses as more fully described above and in Note 16 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Operating earnings for 2002 were negatively impacted by fourth quarter asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlements and other write offs totaling approximately $3 million. DEVELOPING BUSINESSES DIVISION Developing Businesses Segment (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Sales $ 346 $ 110 &gt;100 % Operating earnings (loss) (70) (46) (52) % 2002 Compared With 2001 The sales revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 represents the increase of interdivisional sales and the emergence of external sales to new customers at Cendian. All sales in 2001 represent interdivisional sales that are eliminated in consolidation. The 2002 operating loss for the Developing Businesses Segment increased compared to 2001 operating loss primarily due to Cendians up front costs to implement new customers and to support anticipated growth. 65 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2002 COMPARED WITH 2001 Sales Revenue (excluding interdivisional sales) (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Change Volume Effect Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect United States and Canada $ 3,040 $ 3,202 (5)% 4 % (6)% (3)% 0 % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,170 1,148 2 % 5 % (7)% 0 % 4 % Asia Pacific 636 555 15 % 20 % (5)% 0 % 0 % Latin America 474 485 (2)% 12 % (13)% 1 % (2)% $ 5,320 $ 5,390 Sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2002 decreased $162 million compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices. The decline in selling prices, which occurred in all segments, had a negative impact on revenues of $185 million. An unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily in the PCI and Fibers segments, had a negative impact on revenues of $107 million offset by increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on revenues of $131 million. Sales revenue in Europe, Middle East, and Africa for 2002 increased $22 million compared to 2001 due to increased sales volumes, which had a positive impact on revenues of $58 million, and the positive effect of foreign currency exchange rates, which had a positive impact on revenues of $43 million. These increases were mostly offset by decreased selling prices, primarily for the Polymers segment, which had a negative impact on revenues of $78 million. Sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region for 2002 increased $81 million compared to 2001 due to higher sales volumes, primarily for acetyl and intermediates products, which had a positive impact on revenues of $113 million. Lower selling prices had a negative impact on revenues of $27 million. Sales revenue in Latin America for 2002 decreased $11 million compared to 2001 primarily due to lower selling prices, which had a negative impact on revenues of $61 million. Increased sales volumes had a positive impact on revenues of $58 million. Both the decrease in selling prices and the increase in sales volumes were predominantly attributed to the Polymers segment. Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact on revenues of $8 million. With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States of America, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars and euros. In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate. See Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Part II Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 66 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 244 $ 801 $ 397 Investing activities (160) (467) (523) Financing activities 397 (323) 91 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 481 $ 11 $ (35) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 558 $ 77 $ 66 Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 decreased $557 million compared to 2002 primarily as a result of the changes in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive pay which had a year over year impact of $295 million on cash flows from operations. In addition, changes in working capital, which is defined as the net change in trade receivables, inventory and trade payables, had a year over year impact of $123 million. The remaining decrease related to a reduction in operating results and other items. The 2003 decrease in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive pay was primarily due to the $238 million contribution to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans. The Company made no similar contributions to U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2002 or 2001. In 2003, increased working capital decreased cash from operating activities by $7 million primarily due to an increase in trade receivables mostly offset by a decrease in inventories. The decrease in working capital for 2002 increased cash flows from operating activities by $116 million as the significant decrease in trade receivables and increase in trade payables was partially offset by increase in inventories. Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 increased $404 million compared to 2001. The increase was primarily due a $167 million decrease in working capital; an $89 million increase in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive compensation; and receipt of a federal income tax refund of approximately $40 million. Working capital increased cash flows in 2002 by $116 million as described above. Working capital decreased cash flows in 2001 by $51 million primarily as a result of a decrease in trade payables partially offset by a decrease in receivables. Changes in liabilities for employee benefits and incentive compensation increased operating cash flow in 2002 as payments required under the Eastman Performance Plan and the Unit Performance Plan during 2002 were significantly lower than s imilar payments in 2001 due to the performance under the plans for 2001. The net decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2003 compared to 2002 reflects a decrease in the addition of properties and equipment, and proceeds from sales of assets in 2003. The decrease in additions of properties and equipment is primarily due to the 2002 purchase of $161 million of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. The 2003 proceeds from sales of assets of $70 million were due to the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastics assets and colorant product lines and related assets. In 2001, cash paid for the Hercules Business was approximately $252 million. Cash used in investing activities in 2002 and 2001 also reflects other small acquisitions. Cash provided by financing activities in 2003 totaled $397 million due primarily to proceeds from long term borrowings of $495 million and an increase in commercial paper borrowings of $39 million. Cash used in financing activities in 2002 reflected a significant decrease in commercial paper and short term borrowings attributable to the use of proceeds from long term debt issued during 2002 and the use of cash generated from operations to repay indebtedness. Cash provided by financing activities in 2001 includes the effect of increased commercial paper borrowings and the effect of treasury stock purchases resulting from a reverse/forward stock split from the Companys common stock approved by the stockholders in 2001. The payment of dividends is also reflected in all periods. 67 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The significant increase in cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2003 compared to prior years is due to the anticipation of the maturity of $500 million of 6 3/8% notes due January 2004. The debt was paid in January 2004. In 2004, priorities for use of available cash from operations will be to pay the dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings and fund targeted growth initiatives such as small acquisitions and other ventures. Liquidity Eastman has access to a $600 million revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") expiring in July 2005. Any borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility requires facility fees on the total commitment that vary based on Eastmans credit rating. The rate for such fees was 0.25% and 0.15% as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Credit Facility contains a number of covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Eastman was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods presented. Eastman typically utilizes commercial paper to meet its liquidity needs. The Credit Facility provides liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes. Accordingly, outstanding commercial paper borrowings reduce borrowings available under the Credit Facility. Because the Credit Facility expires in July 2005, the commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit Facility are classified as long term borrowings because the Company has the ability to refinance such borrowings on a long term basis. At December 31, 2003, the Companys commercial paper borrowings were $196 million at an effective interest rate of 1.86%. At December 31, 2002, the Companys commercial paper borrowings were $143 million at an effective interest rate of 1.66%. The Company has an effective registration statement, filed in 1998 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to issue up to $1 billion of debt or equity securities. On April 3, 2002, Eastman issued notes in the principal amount of $400 million due 2012 and bearing interest at 7% per annum. Net proceeds from the sale of the notes were $394 million and were used to repay portions of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility and commercial paper borrowings. On June 16, 2003, the Company issued notes in the principal amount of $250 million due 2008 and bearing interest at 3.25% per annum. Proceeds from the sale of the notes, net of $2 million in transaction fees, were $248 million and were used to repay portions of commercial paper borrowings. On November 12, 2003, the Company issued note s in the principal amount of $250 million due 2018 and bearing interest at 6.3% per annum. Proceeds from the sale of the notes, net of approximately $2 million in transaction fees, were $246 million and were used, along with cash generated from business activities and other borrowings, for the repayment of the Companys $500 million 6 3/8% notes due on January 15, 2004. On January 15, 2004, the Company retired $500 million of debt bearing interest at 6 3/8% per annum. These notes were reflected in borrowings due within one year in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2003. This debt was retired with a combination of cash generated from business activities, new long term borrowings and available short term borrowing capacity. 68 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In the first quarter 2002, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that converted the effective interest rate of the 6 3/8% notes due in 2004 to variable rates. These original interest rate swaps were settled during the fourth quarter 2002, resulting in $13 million cash proceeds being received by the Company. The gain resulting from the settlement of the swaps is reflected as an increase in the current portion of long term borrowings and will be amortized into earnings as a reduction to interest expense through the maturity of the notes in January 2004. In conjunction with the settlement of the original interest rate swaps, new interest rate swaps were entered into in the fourth quarter 2002, converting the effective interest rate on the notes due in 2004 to variable rate s that averaged 3.34% at December 31, 2003 and 4.07% at December 31, 2002. The recording of the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding debt resulted in increases of $2 million in other current assets and the current portion of long term borrowings at December 31, 2003 In the third quarter 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that converted the effective interest rate on $250 million of the $400 million 7% notes due in 2012 to variable rates such that the effective average rate was 5.66% on the variable portion at December 31, 2003. The recording of the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding debt resulted in a decrease of $3 million for long term borrowings and an increase in other long term liabilities at December 31, 2003. In the fourth quarter 2003, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that converted the effective interest rate on $150 million of the $250 million 6.3% notes due in 2018 to variable rates such that that the effective avera ge rate was 1.3% on the variable portion at December 31, 2003. The recording of the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding debt resulted in an increase of $1 million for long term borrowings and a decrease in other long term liabilities at December 31, 2003. The Company contributed $238 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2003. The Company anticipates that additional funding of between $0 and $40 million may be required in 2004. Funding requirements for 2004 are dependent on congressional legislation regarding pension discount rates. Cash flows from operations and the sources of capital described above are expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow requirements including those requirements related to the normal seasonal increase in working capital expected in the first half of the year. However, the Companys cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw materials availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastmans products, capacity utilization and other factors described under "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors" below. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $230 million, $427 million and $234 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2002 include $161 million related to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. The Company continues its emphasis on cash flow management and, for 2004, expects that capital spending and other directed investments for small acquisitions and other ventures will increase compared to 2003, but be no more than depreciation and amortization. Other Commitments At December 31, 2003, the Companys obligations related to notes and debentures totaled approximately $2.4 billion to be paid over a period of 25 years. Other borrowings, related primarily to commercial paper borrowings, totaled approximately $196 million. The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2003 totaling approximately $2 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business. The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable and month to month operating leases totaling approximately $195 million over a period of several years. Of the total lease commitments, approximately 20% relate to machinery and equipment, including computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately 40% relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities and land; and approximately 40% relate to railcars. In addition, the Company had other liabilities at December 31, 2003 totaling approximately $1.2 billion related to pension, retiree medical, and other postemployment obligations. 69 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The obligations described above are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Payments Due For Period Notes and Debentures Commercial Paper and Other Borrowings Purchase Obligations Operating Leases Other Liabilities (a) Total 2004 $ 504 $ $ 246 $ 45 $ 64 $ 859 2005 196 246 40 128 610 2006 5 243 33 180 461 2007 240 24 151 415 2008 250 140 13 107 510 2009 and beyond 1,638 902 40 560 3,140 Total $ 2,397 $ 196 $ 2,017 $ 195 $ 1,190 $ 5,995 (a) Amounts represent the current estimated cash payments to be made by the Company in the periods indicated. The amount and timing of such payments is dependent upon interest rates, health care trends, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, continuation or modification of the benefit plans, and other factors. Such factors can significantly impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company. In addition, amounts related to retiree medical do not include the potential effect of the recently enacted Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the Act"). For further details regarding the implementation of the Act, see Note 9 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. On January 15, 2004, the Company retired the $500 million of 6 3/8% notes due 2004. The Company also had outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2003. Additional information related to these guarantees is included in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Off Balance Sheet and Other Financing Arrangements If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees in excess of the payments included above is remote. Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2003 totaled $93 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars, company aircraft, and other equipment. The Company has long term commitments relating to joint ventures as described in Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company guarantees up to $131 million of the principal amount of the joint ventures third party borrowings, but believes, based on current facts and circumstances and the structure of the ventures, that the likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote. As described in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, Eastman entered into an agreement in 1999 that allows it to generate cash by reducing its working capital through the sale of undivided interests in certain domestic trade accounts receivable under a planned continuous sale program to a third party. Under this agreement, receivables sold to the third party totaled $200 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002. Undivided interests in designated receivable pools were sold to the purchaser with recourse limited to the purchased interest in the receivable pools. The Company did not have any other material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including special purpose entities, for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements with contractually narrow or limited purposes. Thus, Eastman is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk related to the above or any other such relationships. 70 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Treasury Stock Transactions The Company is currently authorized to repurchase up to $400 million of its common stock. No shares of Eastman common stock were repurchased by the Company during 2003 and 2002. During 2001, 77,069 shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $4 million, or an average price of $53 per share, were repurchased. A total of 2,746,869 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $112 million, or an average price of approximately $41 per share, have been repurchased under the authorization. Repurchased shares may be used to meet common stock requirements for compensation and benefit plans and other corporate purposes. In the first quarter 2002, the Company issued 126,614 previously repurchased shares as the annual Company contribution to the Eastman Investment and Employee Stock Owner ship Plan. Dividends The Company declared cash dividends of $0.44 per share in the fourth quarters 2003, 2002 and 2001 and a total of $1.76 per share in 2003, 2002 and 2001. ENVIRONMENTAL Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes, the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of which are regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure and postclosure under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Adequate reserves for environmental contingencies have been e stablished in accordance with Eastmans policies as described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Companys preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, it does not believe its liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Companys assumptions about remedial requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and testing requireme nts could result in higher or lower costs. In addition to remediation activities, the Company establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental assets it maintains. Environmental assets include but are not limited to land fills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds. When these types of assets are constructed, a reserve is established for the future environmental remediation anticipated to be associated with the closure of the site based on an expected life of the environmental assets. These future expenses are accreted into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets. Reserves related to environmental assets accounted for approximately 50% of the total environmental reserve at December 31, 2003. Currently, the Companys environmental assets are expected to be no longer useable at va rious different times over the next 50 years. If the Company was to invest in numerous new environmental assets, or, these assets were to require closure a significant number of years before the Company anticipated they would, the amortization on them would increase, and could have a material negative impact on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Company views the likelihood of this occurrence to be remote, and does not anticipate, based on its past experience with this type of planned remediation, that an additional accrual related to environmental assets will be necessary. 71 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had recognized environmental contingencies of approximately $61 million and $60 million, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for closure/postclosure costs, the amount accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives. The Companys cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were estimated to be approximately $187 million, $195 million and $216 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These amounts pertain primarily to operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also include expenditures for construction and development. The Company does not expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Companys planned level of capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. INFLATION In recent years, inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastmans costs. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market price, although derivative financial instruments may have been utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market price fluctuations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." This Statement, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale leaseback transactions. The provisions of this Statement are generally effective for the Companys 2003 fiscal year, or in the case of specific provisions, for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002 or for financial statements issued on or after May 15, 2002. The provisions of this Statement have not had and are not expected to have a material impact on the Com panys financial condition or results of operations. In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." This Statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." This Statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred, and concludes that an entitys commitment to an exit plan does not by itself create a present obligation that meets the definition of a liability. This Statement also establishes that fair value is the objective o f initial measurement of the liability. The provisions of this Statement are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application encouraged. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. In November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." EITF Issue No. 00 21 provides guidance on how to account for arrangements that involve the delivery or performance of multiple products, services and or rights to use assets. The provisions of EITF Issue No. 00 21 apply to revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. 72 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 ("FIN 45"), "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," relating to the guarantors accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. The disclosure provisions of FIN 45 are effective for the current fiscal year and the Company has included this information in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. However, the provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of a guarantors year end. The adoption of FIN 45 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position, liquidity or results of operations. See Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Companys guarantees. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, amendment of FASB Statement No. 123." This Statement provides additional transition guidance for those entities that elect to voluntarily adopt the provisions of SFAS No.123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." Furthermore, SFAS No. 148 mandates new disclosures in both interim and year end financial statements within Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies," to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Company has elected not to adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148. However, the Company has adopted the disclosure provisions for the current fiscal year and has included this information in Note 1 to the Company&# 146;s consolidated financial statements. Effective July 1, 2003, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 01 08, "Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease." EITF Issue No. 01 08 provides guidance on how to determine if an arrangement contains a lease that is within the scope of SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases." The provisions of EITF Issue No. 01 08 apply primarily to arrangements agreed to or committed to after the beginning of an entitys next reporting period beginning after May 28, 2003, or previous arrangements modified after the beginning of an entitys next reporting period beginning after May 28, 2003. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 01 08 did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position, liquidity or results of operations. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46"), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." FIN 46 clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities ("VIEs") created after January 31, 2003, and to VIEs in which a public company obtains an interest after that date. In December 2003, the FASB published a revision to FIN 46 ("FIN 46R") to clarify some of the provisions of the inte rpretation and to defer the effective date of implementation for certain entities. Under the guidance of FIN 46R, public companies that have interests in VIEs that are commonly referred to as special purpose entities are required to apply the provisions of FIN46R for periods ending after December 15, 2003. A public company that does not have any interests in special purpose entities but does have a variable interest in a VIE created before February 1, 2003, must apply the provisions of FIN 46R by the end of the first interim or annual reporting period ending after March 14, 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company assessed certain of its lease arrangements as well as its accounts receivable securitization program according to the provisions of FIN 46R. The Company concluded that such entities did not meet the criteria for consolidation. In addition, the Company has identified certain joint venture partnerships as well as other contractual arrangements created before February 1, 2003 as pote ntial VIEs. The Company is currently evaluating the effect of these potential VIEs on its consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. See Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for further discussions about the Companys potential VIEs. 73 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 149 amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 149 amends SFAS No. 133 to require contracts with comparable characteristics be accounted for similarly. SFAS No. 149 clarifies the circumstances under which a contract with an initial net investment qualifies as a derivative and clarifies when a derivative contains a financing component that warrants special reporting in the statement of cash flows. This Statement is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, except for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003, where the guidance should be applied prospectively. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity." SFAS No. 150 requires certain financial instruments, which under previous guidance were accounted for as equity, be classified as liabilities or assets in statements of financial position. This Statement is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to SFAS No. 132 "Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits". This statement revises employers disclosures about pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. It requires additional disclosures related to the assets, obligations, cash flows, and net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension plans and other defined benefit postretirement plans. It does not change the measurement or recognition of those plans. The Company has adopted the provisions of this statement. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. On January 12, 2004, the FASB staff issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") 106 1 "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003." FSP 106 1 permits a sponsor of a postretirement health care plan that provides a prescription drug benefit to make a one time election to defer accounting for the effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the Act") that would be required in accordance with SFAS 106 "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions." Regardless of whether a sponsor elects that deferral, FSP 106 1 requires certain disclosures in annual or interim financial statements. FSP 106 1 is effective for interim or annual financial statements of fiscal year s ending after December 7, 2003. The Company elected to defer accounting for the effects of the Act and has made the required disclosures in Note 9 of the companys financial statements. The Company is currently evaluating the effect FSP 106 1 will have on its consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. OUTLOOK For 2004, the Company expects: that historically high raw material and energy costs will continue throughout much of 2004, and that the Company will continue to implement price increases to offset these increases; that pension and other postemployment benefit expenses in 2004 will increase compared to 2003 by approximately $15 million; to contribute between $0 and $40 million to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2004; net interest expense to decrease compared to 2003 due to lower expected gross interest costs as a result of lower average interest rates on borrowings and anticipated lower average borrowings; that depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 will decrease by approximately $30 million; priorities for use of available cash from operations will be to pay the quarterly cash dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings and fund targeted growth initiatives such as small acquisitions and other ventures; 74 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS capital expenditures to increase in 2004 compared to 2003, but to continue to be no more than depreciation and amortization; the effective tax rate to be between 30% and 33%, and certain tax benefits from the extraterritorial income exclusion to continue through 2004; combined costs related to selling and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses to be at or below 10% of sales revenue; restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities and continuing cost reduction efforts in the CASPI segment will contribute approximately $50 million to operating results; the Polymers segment will maintain its focus on lowering costs and, for its PET polymers product lines, growing along with overall market demand growth; and the operating loss in the Developing Businesses Division to be less than $45 million. Longer term, the Company expects: Global demand for PET polymers to grow at an average rate of approximately 10% annually over the next several years; and Aggressive management of costs in the PCI segment will help improve margins and position it to take full advantage of the upturn expected in the 2005 through 2006 timeframe and to aggressively identify and implement projects to reduce costs and improve performance. See "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors." FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS The expectations under "Outlook" and certain other statements in this report may be forward looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements and other written and oral forward looking statements made by the Company from time to time may relate to, among other things, such matters as planned and expected capacity increases and utilization; anticipated capital spending; expected depreciation and amortization; environmental matters; legal proceedings; exposure to, and effects of hedging of, raw material and energy costs and foreign currencies; global and regional economic, political, and business conditions; competition; growth opportunities; supply and demand, volume, price, cost, margin, and sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and other exp ected financial conditions; expectations, strategies, and plans for individual products, businesses, segments and divisions as well as for the whole of Eastman Chemical Company; cash requirements and uses of available cash; financing plans; pension expenses and funding; credit rating; cost reduction and control efforts and targets; integration of acquired businesses; development, production, commercialization and acceptance of new products, services and technologies and related costs; asset and product portfolio changes; and expected tax rate. 75 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions, including those mentioned with the specific statements. Such assumptions are in turn based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management plans and strategies, economic conditions and other factors. These plans and expectations and the assumptions underlying them are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions and expectations proves to be inaccurate or is unrealized. In addition to the factors described in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could c ause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward looking statements: The Company has manufacturing and marketing operations throughout the world, with approximately 45% of the Companys sales revenue attributable to sales outside the United States. Economic factors, including foreign currency exchange rates, could affect the Companys sales revenue, expenses and results. Although the Company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign currencies, any changes in strategy in regard to risk management tools can also affect sales revenue, expenses and results and there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, changes in laws, regulations, or other political factors in any of the countries in which the Company operates could affect business in that country or region, as well as the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company has made and may continue to make acquisitions, divestitures and investments, and enter into alliances, as part of its strategies for growth and improved profitability. The completion of such transactions is subject to the timely receipt of necessary regulatory and other consents and approvals needed to complete the transactions which could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including the satisfactory negotiation of the transaction documents and the fulfillment of all closing conditions to the transactions. Additionally, there can be no assurance that such transactions will be successfully completed on a timely and cost efficient basis or that they will achieve projected op erating earnings or cost reduction targets. The Company has made strategic investments in technology, services businesses, and other ventures in order to build certain Eastman capabilities. There can be no assurance that such investments will achieve their objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Companys results of operations. The Company owns assets in the form of equity in other companies, including joint ventures, technology investments and Genencor. Such investments are minority investments in companies which are not managed or controlled by the Company and are subject to all of the risks associated with changes in value of such investments including the market valuation of those companies whose shares are publicly traded. The Company has undertaken and will continue to undertake productivity and cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve performance and generate cost savings. There can be no assurance that these will be completed as planned or beneficial or that estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized. In addition to cost reduction initiatives, the Company is striving to improve margins on its products through price increases, where warranted and accepted by the market; however, the Companys earnings could be negatively impacted should such increases be unrealized, not be sufficient to cover increased raw material and energy costs, or have a negative impact on demand and volume. The Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials for its operations and utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market fluctuations in raw material costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which the Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials. 76 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, or due to domestic or world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, war or other outbreak of hostilities. Eastmans operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors. The Companys competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors. For example, supply and demand for certain of the Companys products is driven by end use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of the Companys products. The Company has an extensive customer base; however, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced and no assurances can be made that the Company would be able to regain or replace any lost customers. Limitation of the Companys available manufacturing capacity due to significant disruption in its manufacturing operations could have a material adverse affect on sales revenue, expenses and results of operations and financial condition. The Companys facilities and businesses are subject to complex health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations currently and in the future. The Companys accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. The amount accrued reflects the Companys assumptions about remedial requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viabilit y of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. The Company accesses the capital and credit markets on a regular basis. Access to these markets and the cost of capital is dependent in part upon the Companys credit rating received from independent credit rating agencies. An adverse change in the Companys credit rating could affect the renewal of existing credit facilities or the Companys ability to obtain access to new credit facilities or other debt financing in the future, could adversely affect the terms under which the Company can borrow, and could increase the cost of new borrowings, other debt, or capital. The Companys operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company. The foregoing list of important factors does not include all such factors nor necessarily present them in order of importance. This disclosure, including that under "Outlook" and "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors," and other forward looking statements and related disclosures made by the Company in this report and elsewhere from time to time, represents managements best judgment as of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in Company press releases) on related subjects. 77 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal course of its business due to its use of certain financial instruments as well as transacting in various foreign currencies and funding foreign operations. To mitigate the Companys exposure to these market risks, Eastman has established policies, procedures, and internal processes governing its management of financial market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage its exposure to such risks. The Company determines its market risk utilizing sensitivity analysis, which measures the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and or commodity prices. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing activities, which include short term commercial paper and long term borrowings used to maintain liquidity and to fund its business operations and capital requirements. Currently, these borrowings are predominately U.S. dollar denominated. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. For 2003 and 2002, the market risks associated with the fair value of interest rate sensitive instruments, assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in interest rates of 10% were approximately $119 million and $100 million, respectively, and an additional $13 million for each one percentage point change in interes t rates thereafter. This exposure is primarily related to long term debt with fixed interest rates. The Companys operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company continually evaluates its foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and the locations in which the Company conducts business. In order to mitigate the effect of foreign currency risk, the Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and currency options to hedge probable anticipated but not yet committed export sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than two years and denominated in foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of related exposures. It is the Companys policy to enter into foreign currency trans actions only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency transactions for speculative purposes. At December 31, 2003, the Company had no outstanding forward exchange contracts or currency options. For 2002, the market risks associated with forward exchange contracts utilizing a modified Black Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign currency hedged by the Company were approximately $4 million and an additional $0.4 million for each additional one percentage point adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. Further adverse movements in foreign currencies would create losses in fair value; however, such losses would not be linear to that disclosed above. This exposure, which is primarily related to foreign currency options purchased by the Company to manage fluctuations in foreign currencies, is limited to the dollar value of option premiums payable by the Company for th e related financial instruments. In 2002, the market risks associated with foreign currency options utilizing a modified Black Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse change in the US dollar relative to each foreign currency resulted in a $2 million loss in fair value. Furthermore, since the Company utilizes currency sensitive derivative instruments for hedging anticipated foreign currency transactions, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying anticipated transactions. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for certain of its major raw materials. To mitigate short term fluctuations in market prices for certain commodities, principally propane, ethane, and natural gas, the Company enters into forwards and options contracts. For 2003 and 2002, the market risks associated with feedstock options and natural gas swaps assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in the underlying commodity price of 10% were $4 million and $2 million, respectively, and an additional $0.3 million and $0.1 million for each one percentage point move in closing prices thereafter. 78 
 
