Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Form 10 K. 31   ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements for Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company"), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. All references to earnings per share contained in this report are diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Companys management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, impaired assets, environmental costs, U.S. pension and other postemployment benefits, litigation and contingent liabilities, and income taxes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Companys management believes the critical accounting policies described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Companys financial condition and results. These policies require managements more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements.  Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company believes, based on historical results, the likelihood of actual write offs having a material impact on financial results or earnings per share is low. However, if one of the Companys key customers were to file for bankruptcy, or otherwise be unable to make its required payments, or there was a significant continued slow down in the economy, the Company could be forced to increase its allowances. This could result in a material charge to earnings. The Companys allowances were $15 million and $28 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Impaired Assets  The Company evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets, including definite lived intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Such events and circumstances include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the asset, adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset is being used, significant changes in business climate, or current or projected cash flow losses associated with the use of the assets. The carrying value of a long lived asset is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from such assets are separately identifiable and are less than its carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long lived asset. For long lived assets to be held and used, fair value of fixed (tangible) assets and definite lived intangible assets is determined primarily using either the projected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved or appraisal. For long lived assets to be disposed of by sale or other than by sale, fair value is determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced for disposal costs.  As the Companys assumptions related to long lived assets are subject to change, additional write downs may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are revised, the carrying amount of the related asset is adjusted, resulting in a charge to earnings. The Company recorded fixed (tangible) asset impairments of $134 million and definite lived intangible asset impairments of $5 million and indefinite lived intangible asset impairments of $1 million during 2004.  32   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Environmental Costs  The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Companys assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $25 million to the maximum of $45 million at December 31, 2004.  In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, the Company also establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental and other assets it maintains. Environmental assets include but are not limited to land fills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds. When these types of assets are constructed, a reserve is established for the future environmental costs anticipated to be associated with the closure of the site based on an expected life of the environmental assets. These future expenses are charged into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets. Currently, the Company estimates the useful life of each individual asset up to 50 years. If the Company changes its estimate of the asset retirement obligation costs or its estimate of the useful lives of these assets, the future expenses to be charged into earnings could increase or decrease.  The Companys reserve for environmental contingencies was $56 million and $61 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for asset retirement obligation costs, the amount accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives.  United States Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits  The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. Additionally, Eastman provides life insurance and health care benefits for eligible retirees and health care benefits for retirees eligible survivors. The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect the Companys assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase for employees and health care cost trends. At December 31, 2004, the Company assumed a discount rate of 5.75%; an expected return on assets of 9%; a rate of compensation increase of 3.75%; and an initial health care cost trend of 9% decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2009. The cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover, and plan participation. 33   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in the expected return on assets and assumed discount rate for U.S. pension plans and other postretirement welfare plans:  Change in Assumption  Impact on 2005 Pre tax U.S. Pension Expense Impact on December 31, 2004 Projected Benefit Obligation for U.S. Pension Plans Impact on December 31, 2004 Benefit Obligation for Other U.S. Postretirement Plans 25 basis point decrease in discount rate   +$5 Million   +$51 Million   +$23 Million 25 basis point increase in discount rate    $5 Million    $49 Million    $22 Million 25 basis point decrease in expected return on assets   +$2 Million   No Impact   N/A 25 basis point increase in expected return on assets    $2 Million   No Impact   N/A  The expected return on assets and assumed discount rate used to calculate the Companys pension and other postemployment benefit obligations are established each December 31. The expected return on assets is based upon the long term expected returns in the markets in which the pension trust invests its funds, primarily the domestic, international, and private equities markets. The assumed discount rate is based upon an index of high quality, long term corporate borrowing rates. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the difference is recorded as an unrecognized gain (loss) and then amortized into earnings over a period of time, which may cause the cost of providing these benefits to increase or decrease. The charges applied to earnings in 2004, 2003, and 2002 due to the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses were $44 million, $32 million, and $20 million, respectively.  The Company does not anticipate that a change in pension and other post employment obligations caused by a change in the assumed discount rate will impact the cash contributions to be made to the pension plans during 2005. However, an after tax charge or credit will be recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, as of December 31, 2005 for the impact on the pensions projected benefit obligation of the change in interest rates, if any. While the amount of the change in these obligations does not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication of the amount the Company will be required to contribute to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such cash contributions is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirement, and attrition rates of employees, and other factors.  Litigation and Contingent Liabilities  From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes the amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company. 34   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Income Taxes  The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The ability to realize the deferred tax assets is evaluated through the forecasting of taxable income using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. In the event that the actual outcome of future tax consequences differs from our estimates and assumptions, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated results of operations and statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2004, a valuation allowance of $221 million has been provided against the deferred tax assets.  2004 OVERVIEW  Since the beginning of 2002, the Company has been implementing a turnaround strategy to improve profitability, which included an evaluation of its portfolio and implementation of initiatives to reduce costs. In 2004, the evaluation led to restructuring, divestitures, and consolidation within the Company, including the sale of underperforming businesses, product lines and related assets within the Companys Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks (CASPI) segment; the rationalization of capacity and consolidation of production in the Specialty Plastics (SP) segment; the implementation of a more integrated organizational structure in the Polymers segment; and restructuring of the Developing Businesses (DB) segment. These actions resulted in asset impairments and restructuring charges in 2004 of $206 million. Further, in January 2005, the Company announced that it has entered into an agreement with Danisco A/S to sell Eastmans equity interest in Genencor International, Inc., (Genencor), which is targeted for first quarter 2005 and is expected to be completed by May 31, 2005.  In full year 2004, operating earnings were $175 million, an improvement from the $267 million operating loss in 2003 and the best since 2000. These results included the impact of asset impairments and restructuring charges and a tax benefit received, both described in Notes 15 and 18 of the consolidated financial statements. The improved results were also accomplished through increased sales volume primarily attributed to a strengthening economy, new applications of certain products and increased substitution of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) polymers for other materials; increased selling prices, particularly in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) and Polymers segments; a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, particularly in the Companys Eastman Division; ongoing labor and benefits reduction measures; and the application of process improvement technologies.  The Company also improved its cash flow from operations in 2004 by $250 million compared with 2003. The increased cash flow from operations, combined with proceeds from the divestiture of assets, resulted in the reduction of net debt (long and short term debt minus cash and cash equivalents) of approximately $300 million. In addition, during 2004 the Company continued to maintain its financial discipline while improving profitability. This was demonstrated by keeping selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses below 10 percent of sales revenue; having capital expenditures below depreciation and amortization; and maintaining a strong dividend.  The Company has also taken several initiatives to continue to improve margins in 2005, including the improvement of pricing processes and pricing strategies, particularly to recover historically high costs of raw materials and energy, and reduction of the labor force by approximately 20 percent. These actions, combined with a strengthening economy, have positioned the Company to enter a period of growth with increased profitability and financial flexibility.  35   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2004 COMPARED WITH 2003  The Companys results of operations as presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report are summarized and analyzed below:  Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2004 2003 Operating earnings (loss) $ 175 $ (267)  Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle  170    (273)  Net earnings (loss) 170  (270)  Earnings (loss) per share  Basic 2.20 (3.50)  Diluted 2.18 (3.50) Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 206 489 Goodwill impairments  34 Other operating income (7) (33)  Operating results for 2004 increased $442 million over results for 2003. This improvement included a $317 million reduction in asset impairments and restructuring charges partially offset by lower other operating income of $26 million. In addition, earnings were positively impacted by the following factors:  increased selling prices of approximately $350 million; increased volumes, excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated businesses and product lines; focus on more profitable product lines and the impact of favorable product mix; improved cost structure; and favorable impact of foreign exchange.  The above items more than offset an estimated $600 million increase in raw materials and energy costs.  Other operating income of $7 million in 2004 resulted from the sale of Ariel Research Corporation (Ariel), formerly part of the Companys DB segment. Other operating income in 2003 included a $20 million gain from the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastics assets, which were formerly a part of the SP segment, and a gain of $13 million for the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets, which were formerly part of the CASPI segment.  Operating results for 2003 were impacted by a reduction in costs of approximately $40 million as a result of the previously reported change in vacation policy. This policy was part of cost reduction measures implemented by the Company in the first quarter 2003. This change in policy impacted 2003 only. Also positively impacting 2003 results was a gain of approximately $14 million recorded as a credit to cost of sales on the earnings statement from the insurance settlement related to the previously disclosed 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina facilities. 36   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      (Dollars in millions)   2004   2003   Change  Volume Effect  Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 6,580 $ 5,800 13% 4% 6% 1% 2%  Sales revenue increased for 2004 compared to 2003 primarily due to increased selling prices, particularly for the polymers and the PCI segments, increased sales volumes, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, of approximately $363 million, $243 million, and $128 million, respectively. The increase in selling prices was primarily in response to an increase in raw material and energy costs and the Companys efforts to improve profitability.  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Gross Profit $ 978 $ 810 21 % As a percentage of sales 14.9% 14.0 %  Gross profit for 2004 increased compared to 2003 primarily due to the following factors:  increased selling prices in response to higher raw materials, particularly in PCI and Polymers, and the Companys continued efforts to improve profitability; volumes, excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated businesses and product lines, increased across all segments due to strengthening general economic conditions and the substitution of other materials with SPBO and Polymers products; focus on more profitable product lines, achieved by a variety of actions, including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activity, as well as improving product mix, particularly in CASPI, SPBO, and Fibers; and improved cost structure through restructuring efforts and cost reduction programs.  The above items more than offset higher raw material and energy costs primarily attributable to paraxylene, ethylene glycol, propane, coal, and natural gas.  The Company expects that higher raw material and energy costs will continue to negatively impact gross profit during 2005, mitigated to the extent the Company is able to continue to offset this impact in part through higher selling prices for certain of its products and through various cost reduction measures.  The Company continues to implement a variety of cost control measures to manage discretionary spending. Of the measures taken, a change in vacation policy favorably impacted 2003 results by approximately $40 million. This change in vacation policy did not have a significant impact on 2004 results.   (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) $ 450 $ 414 9 % Research and Development Expenses (R&D) 154 173 (11) % $ 604 $ 587 As a percentage of sales 9.2% 10.1%  The increase in SG&A expenses for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher compensation and employee related costs as well as higher professional service fees. Research and Development (R&D) expenses for 2004 were lower compared to 2003 primarily due to reduced labor costs as well as reduced project spending within Voridian Division. The Company continues to view the majority of the costs within the DB segment as an extension of its R&D efforts, and management expects for 2005 that these DB and R&D costs combined will be approximately 3 percent of revenue. 37   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net  Impairments and restructuring charges totaled $206 million during 2004, consisting of non cash asset impairments of $140 million and restructuring charges of $66 million. Effective January 1, 2004, certain commodity product lines were transferred from the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) segment to the CASPI segment, which resulted in the reclassification of asset impairment and severance charges of approximately $42 million for 2003. The following table summarizes the 2004 and 2003 charges:  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Eastman Division segments: CASPI segment: Fixed asset impairments $ 57 $ 235 Intangible asset impairments 6 175 Goodwill impairments 34 Severance charges 12 15 Site closure costs 6 3  PCI segment: Fixed asset impairments 27 55 Severance charges 10 2  Site closure costs 1 SP segment Fixed asset impairments 41 Severance charges 10 1  Site closure costs 2 Total Eastman Division $ 172 $ 520 Voridian Division segments: Polymers Segment: Fixed asset impairments 1 Severance charges 13 1 Fibers segment:  Severance charges 1 Total Voridian Division $ 13 $ 3 Developing Businesses Division segment:  Fixed asset impairments 9  Severance costs 8  Restructuring charges 4 Total Developing Businesses segment $ 21 $ Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 206 $ 523 Total asset impairments and restructuring charges, net $ 206 $ 489 Total goodwill impairments 34 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 206 $ 523  38   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  2004  Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges  During the fourth quarter 2004, the Company recorded asset impairments of $9 million and site closure and other restructuring charges of $9 million. The non cash asset impairments relate to the adjustment to fair value of assets at Cendian Corporation (Cendian), the Companys logistics subsidiary, impacting the DB segment, resulting from a decision to reintegrate Cendians logistics activities into Eastman. In addition, the Company recognized restructuring charges of $9 million primarily related to actual and expected severance of Cendian and other employees, as well as site closure charges primarily related to previously announced manufacturing plant closures.  In the third quarter 2004, the Company recognized asset impairments of approximately $27 million, primarily related to assets at the Companys Batesville, Arkansas and Longview, Texas manufacturing facilities. These impairments primarily relate to certain fixed assets in the performance chemicals product lines in the PCI segment that management decided to rationalize due to increased foreign competition. Also in third quarter, the CASPI segment incurred approximately $2 million in site closure charges primarily related to previously announced manufacturing plant closures, while the DB segment incurred approximately $3 million in restructuring charges related to the reorganization of Cendian.  In the second quarter 2004, the Company recognized $62 million in asset impairment charges related to assets held for sale. The assets were part of the Companys sale of certain businesses and product lines within the CASPI segment, which was completed July 31, 2004. The charges reflect adjustment of the recorded values of these assets to the expected sales proceeds. Also in second quarter 2004, the Company recognized an additional $4 million of site closure costs related primarily to previously announced manufacturing plant closures. These charges had an impact of approximately $2 million each to the CASPI and SP segments.  In the first quarter 2004, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $41 million and severance charges of $5 million primarily related to the closure of its copolyester manufacturing facility in Hartlepool, United Kingdom. The decision to close the Hartlepool site, which manufactured products that are within the Companys SP segments product lines, was made in order to consolidate production at other sites to create a more integrated and efficient global manufacturing structure. Accordingly, the carrying value of the manufacturing fixed assets was written down to fair value as established by appraisal and available market data. In addition, the Company recognized $1 million of fixed asset impairments and $1 million of site closure costs related to additional impairments within the CASPI reorganization and changes in estimates for previously accrued amounts.  In addition to the items discussed above, during 2004 the Company recognized $43 million in severance charges from ongoing cost reduction efforts throughout the Company and costs related to the Companys employee separation programs announced in April 2004, resulting in severance charges to the CASPI, PCI, SP, Polymers, and DB segments of $12 million, $10 million, $5 million, $13 million, and $3 million, respectively.  39   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges  2003  CASPI Segment  In the third quarter, the Company reorganized the operating structure within its CASPI segment and changed the segments business strategy in response to the financial performance of certain underlying product lines. Prior to the third quarter 2003, management was pursuing growth strategies aimed at significantly improving the financial performance of these product groups. However, due to the continued operating losses and deteriorating market conditions, management decided to pursue alternative strategies including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation. This change affected both the manner in which certain assets are used and the financial outlook for these product groups, thus triggering the impairments and certain restructuring charges.  The third quarter fixed asset impairment charges of approximately $234 million primarily related to assets associated with the above mentioned underperforming product lines, and primarily impacted manufacturing sites in the North American and European regions that were part of the Lawter International, Inc. (Lawter), McWhorter Technologies, Inc. (McWhorter), and Chemicke Zavody Sokolov (Sokolov) acquisitions. Within these product lines, nine sites in North America and six sites in Europe were impaired. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the assets, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal.  The third quarter intangible asset impairment charges related to definite lived intangible assets of approximately $128 million and indefinite lived intangibles of approximately $47 million. The definite lived intangibles related primarily to developed technology and customer lists, and the indefinite lived intangibles primarily related to trademarks. These intangible assets were primarily associated with the acquisitions of Lawter and McWhorter. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the definite lived intangible assets, these assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal. Indefinite lived intangible assets were written down to fair value, as established by appraisal.  Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Company defined reporting units as one level below the operating segment level and considered the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. This resulted in the CASPI segment being deemed a single reporting unit. In the third quarter 2003, the reorganization of the operating structure within the CASPI segment resulted in new reporting units one level below the operating segment. Due to the change in strategy and lack of similar economic characteristics, these reporting units did not meet the criteria necessary for aggregation. As a result, the goodwill associated with the CASPI segment was reassigned to the new reporting units based upon relative fair values. The reporting unit that contained the above mentioned product lines was assigned $34 million of goodwill out of the total CASPI segment goodwill of $333 million. Because the Company determined that this reporting unit could no longer support the carrying value of its assigned goodwill, the full amount of that goodwill was impaired. The fair value of the other reporting unit within CASPI was sufficient to support the carrying value of the remainder of the goodwill.  In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized fixed asset impairments and site closure costs of $1 million and $3 million, respectively. The fixed asset impairments relate to additional impairments associated with the CASPI reorganization, as discussed above. The site closure charges relate primarily to additional costs related to the closure of the Companys Dusseldorf manufacturing site.  Other Segments  In the second quarter, the Company recorded an asset impairment charge of approximately $15 million related to the impairment of certain fixed assets used in certain of the PCI segments performance chemicals product lines that are located in Llangefni, Wales. In response to industry conditions, during the second quarter 2003 the Company revised its strategy and the earnings forecast for the products manufactured by these assets. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the asset, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by discounted future cash flows of the impacted assets. 40   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  In the third and fourth quarter, the PCI segment incurred charges of $40 million related to the impairment of fixed assets used in performance chemicals product lines as a result of increased competition and changes in business strategy in response to a change in market conditions and the financial performance of these product lines. The fixed asset impairments charge related to assets located at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility.  In the fourth quarter 2003, an asset impairment charge of $1 million was recorded related to certain research and development assets classified as held for sale. The fair value of these assets was determined using the estimated proceeds from sale less cost to sell. These charges impacted the Polymers segment.  During 2003, the Company recognized $20 million in severance costs for the actual and probable employee separations from consolidation and restructuring activities in the CASPI segment and ongoing cost reduction efforts throughout the Company. These changes are reflected in CASPI, PCI, SP, Polymers, and Fibers segments of $15 million, $2 million, $1 million, $1 million, and $1 million, respectively.  The following table summarizes the charges and changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges, the non cash reductions attributable to asset impairments and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid:   (Dollars in millions) Balance at January 1, 2003 Provision/ Adjustments Non cash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2003 Noncash charges $ $ 500 $ (500 ) $ $ Severance costs 2 20 (12 ) 10 Site closure costs 7 3 (5 ) 5 Total $ 9 $ 523 $ (500 ) $ (17 ) $ 15  Balance at January 1, 2004 Provision/ Adjustments Non cash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2004 Noncash charges $ $ 140 $ (140 ) $ $ Severance costs 10 53 (37 ) 26 Site closure costs 5 13 (9 ) 9 Total $ 15 $ 206 $ (140 ) $ (46 ) $ 35  Substantially all severance and site closure costs are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year.  Actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 1,200 employees during 2004. As of the end of 2004, substantially all separations accrued for were completed.  During 2003, terminations related to actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 500 employees. As of the end of 2003, approximately 350 of these terminations had occurred, with the remaining primarily relating to previously announced consolidation and restructuring activities of certain European CASPI manufacturing sites that were completed in early 2004. 41   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Other Operating Income  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Other operating income $ (7 ) $ (33 )  Other operating income for 2004 totaled approximately $7 million for the gain on sale of Ariel in the fourth quarter, reflected in the DB segment.  Other operating income for 2003 totaled approximately $33 million and reflected gains of approximately $20 million on the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastic assets in first quarter, and approximately $13 million on the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets in fourth quarter. These items were reflected within the SP and CASPI segments, respectively.  Interest Expense, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Gross interest costs $ 126 $ 133 Less: capitalized interest 3 3 Interest expense 123 130 (5) % Interest income 8 6 Interest expense, net $ 115 $ 124 (7) %  Lower gross interest costs for 2004 compared to 2003 reflected lower average debt levels due to paydown of debt throughout the year, which were partially offset by higher average interest rates.  For 2005, the Company expects net interest expense to decrease compared to 2004 due to lower expected gross interest costs as a result of lower average borrowings.  Other (Income) Charges, net  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Other income $ (24 ) $ (28 ) Other charges 20 18 Other (income) charges, net $ (4 ) $ (10 )  Included in other income are the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of non operating assets, royalty income, net gains on foreign exchange transactions and other miscellaneous items. Included in other charges are net losses on foreign exchange transactions, the Companys portion of losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables and other miscellaneous items.  Other income for 2004 primarily reflects the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $14 million. Other charges for 2004 consist primarily of net losses on foreign exchange transactions of $7 million, fees on securitized receivables of $4 million, and writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $3 million.  Other income for 2003 primarily reflects net gains on foreign exchange transactions of $13 million and the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $10 million. Other charges for 2003 consist primarily of writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $4 million, fees on securitized receivables of $3 million, and other miscellaneous charges.  For more information on the Companys equity investment in Genencor, see Item 1 Business Investment in Genencor and Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 42   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (106) $ (108) (2.0) % Effective tax rate N/A 28%  The 2004 effective tax rate was impacted by $90 million of deferred tax benefits resulting from the expected utilization of a capital loss resulting from the sale of certain businesses and product lines and related assets in the CASPI segment and $26 million of tax benefit resulting from the favorable resolution of a prior year capital loss refund claim. In addition, the effective tax rates for both 2004 and 2003 were impacted by the treatment of asset impairments and restructuring charges resulting in lower expected tax benefits in certain jurisdictions. The 2003 effective tax rate was also impacted by non deductible goodwill impairments.  Excluding the above items, the effective tax rate for 2004 and 2003 was 26 percent and 28 percent, respectively. These rates reflect the impact of foreign rate variances and extraterritorial income exclusion benefits on normal taxable earnings.  In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from the extra territorial income (ETI) exclusion. On October 22, 2004, the President of the United States signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act). The Jobs Act provides a deduction for income from qualified domestic production activities, which will be phased in from 2005 through 2010. The Jobs Act also provides for a two year phase out of the ETI exclusion. The domestic manufacturing benefit has no effect on deferred tax assets or liabilities existing at the enactment date. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed on the Companys federal income tax return. The Company is currently assessing the details of the Jobs Act and the net effect of the phase out of the ETI exclusion and the phase in of this new deduction. This analysis is expected to be completed in mid 2005. Until such time, it is not possible to determine what impact this legislation will have on the Companys consolidated tax accruals or effective tax rate.  The Act also creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations. The Company is not yet in a position to decide whether, and to what extent, foreign earnings might be repatriated. Based upon analysis to date, however, it is reasonably possible that some amount up to $500 million might be repatriated considering the limitation under section 965 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code. The related income tax effects of any such repatriation cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The Company has not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on $318 million of undistributed earnings from non U.S. operations as of December 31, 2004. Until the Companys analysis of the Act is completed, the Company will continue to permanently reinvest those earnings. The Company expects to be in a position to finalize this assessment by mid 2005.  The Company expects its effective tax rate in 2005 will be approximately 30 percent.  Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net $  $ 3  SFAS No. 143  As required by SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, at January 1, 2003, the Company recognized existing asset retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of adoption, asset  43   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  retirement costs capitalized as an increase to the carrying amount of the associated long lived asset and accumulated depreciation on those capitalized costs. As a result of adoption of this standard, the Company recognized an after tax credit to earnings of $3 million during the first quarter 2003, primarily related to a reduction in certain environmental liabilities.  SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT  The Companys products and operations are managed and reported in three divisions comprising six operating segments. Eastman Division consists of the CASPI segment, the PCI segment, and the SP segment. Voridian Division contains the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment. The Developing Businesses Division consists of the DB segment.  The Companys divisional structure allows it to align costs more directly with the activities and businesses that generate them. Goods and services are transferred between the divisions at predetermined prices that may be in excess of cost. Accordingly, the divisional structure results in the recognition of interdivisional sales revenue and operating earnings. Such interdivisional transactions are eliminated in the Companys consolidated financial statements.  The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks, and adhesives markets. The CASPI segments products consist of liquid vehicles, coatings additives, and hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters. Liquid vehicles, such as ester, ketone and alcohol solvents, maintain the binders in liquid form for ease of application. Coatings additives, such as cellulosic polymers, Texanol ester alcohol and chlorinated polyolefins, enhance the rheological, film formation and adhesion properties of paints, coatings and inks. Hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters are used in adhesive, ink, and polymers compounding applications. Additional products are developed in response to, or in anticipation of, new applications where the Company believes significant value can be achieved. On July 31, 2004, the Company completed the sale of certain businesses, product lines and related assets within the CASPI segment. The divested businesses and product lines were composites (unsaturated polyester resins), certain acrylic monomers, inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins, and textile chemicals.  The PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates. The PCI segment also offers custom manufacturing services through its custom synthesis business.  The SP segments key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products. Included in these are highly specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics that possess unique performance properties for value added end uses such as appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics, performance films, tape and labels, fiber, photographic and optical film, graphic arts, and general packaging.  The Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers for use in beverage and food packaging and other applications such as custom care and cosmetics packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and industrial. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging a wide variety of products including carbonated soft drinks, water, beer and personal care items and food containers that are suitable for both conventional and microwave oven use. The Polymers segment also manufactures low density polyethylene and linear low density polyethylene, which are used primarily in extrusion coating, film and molding applications.  The Fibers segment manufactures Estron acetate tow and Estrobond triacetin plasticizers which are used primarily in cigarette filters; Estron and Chromspun acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; acetate flake for use by other acetate tow producers; and acetyl chemicals.  The DB segment includes new businesses and certain investments in growth opportunities that leverage the Companys technology expertise, intellectual property and know how into business models that extend to new customers and markets. The segment includes, among other new and developing businesses, Centrus, a new  44    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  business in food safety diagnostics, and Eastmans gasification services. The DB segment also includes the results of Cendian, which is being reintegrated back into Eastman, and Ariel, which was sold in fourth quarter, 2004.  Effective January 1, 2004, certain commodity product lines were transferred from the PCI segment to the CASPI segment, which resulted in the reclassification of asset impairment charges of approximately $42 million for 2003.  Effective January 1, 2003, sales and operating results for developing businesses activities were moved from the CASPI, PCI, and SP segments to the DB segment. During 2002, these amounts were included within the CASPI, PCI, and SP segments. During 2001, these amounts had been split among all segments.  Accordingly, the prior year amounts for sales and operating earnings have been reclassified for all periods presented. These revisions had no effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements.  For additional information concerning an analysis of the results of the Companys operating segments, see Note 20 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report.  45   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  EASTMAN DIVISION  CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Total external sales $ 1,554 $ 1,683 (8) % Volume effect (11) % Price effect 2 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 2 % Sales restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines (1) 441 719 (39) % Sales continuing product lines 1,113 964 15 % Interdivisional Sales 1 % Total operating earnings (loss) 67 (402 ) &gt; 100 % Operating earnings (loss) restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines (1) (2) (85 ) (538 ) 84 % Operating earnings continuing product lines 152 136 12 %  Total asset impairments and restructuring charges 81 462 Asset impairments and restructuring charges restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines (1) 72 457 Asset impairments and restructuring charges continuing product lines 9 5 Other operating income 13 (1) These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester resins), inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals divested on July 31, 2004 as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines.  (2) Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which remain and were reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments subsequent to restructure, consolidation and divestiture.  On July 31, 2004, the Company completed the sale of certain businesses, product lines and related assets within the CASPI segment. This sale includes portions of the resins and monomers, and inks and graphic arts product groups. As a result, the Company has presented CASPI segment sales revenue, operating earnings, and asset impairments and restructuring charges for restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines and continuing product lines. For additional information, see Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 filed with this report.  External sales revenue decreased $129 million due to lower sales volume resulting from the divestiture discussed above. Excluding the sales from these sources for both 2004 and 2003, sales revenue increased by 15 percent primarily due to an 11 percent increase in volume. Continuing businesses benefited from improved end market demand attributable to strong economic growth and successful marketing of existing products in new applications.  Operating earnings increased $469 million due to lower asset impairment and restructuring charges of approximately $381 million as well as a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, increased 46   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  sales volume, and continued cost reduction efforts that were partially offset by higher raw materials and energy costs, especially propane.  PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 1,347 $ 1,098 23 % Volume effect 12 % Price effect 11 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional sales 583 495 18 % Operating earnings (loss) 16 (45 ) &gt;100 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 38 57  The increase in external sales revenue of $249 million is primarily due to increased sales volume and higher selling prices. The increase in volume had a positive impact on sales revenue of $133 million and was attributable to improved end market demand as a result of strong economic growth and implementation of long term supply arrangements with key customers. Additionally, higher selling prices, as a result of significantly increased raw material and energy costs, had a positive impact on sales revenues of $117 million. The increase in interdivisional sales was due to both higher selling prices as a result of higher raw material and energy costs and increased volume.  Operating earnings increased $61 million, partially due to a decrease in asset impairment and restructuring charges of $19 million. Operating earnings were also favorably impacted by higher sales volume, higher selling prices, and continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw materials and energy prices. Volume growth was primarily due to improved end market demand as a result of strong economic growth, implementation of long term supply arrangements with key customers and debottlenecking of production capacity at the Longview, Texas site. Asset impairment and restructuring charges of $38 million in 2004 relate to manufacturing facilities in the Companys Batesville, Arkansas and Longview, Texas sites. Asset impairment and restructuring charges of $57 million in 2003 related to the Companys manufacturing site in Llangefni, Wales.  SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 644 $ 559 15 % Volume effect 12 % Price effect 1 % Product mix effect % Exchange rate effect 2 % Interdivisional sales 51 49 4 % Operating earnings 13 63 (79) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 53 1 Other operating income 20  47   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The increase in external sales revenue of $85 million for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher sales volume attributed to strong market demand for products in both new and existing applications including eyewear, housewares, and cosmetics packaging in North America and Asia Pacific regions. The increase in volume had a positive impact on sales revenue of $65 million.  Operating earnings for 2004 decreased $50 million compared to 2003 primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charges of $53 million related primarily to the closure of the Hartlepool, United Kingdom manufacturing site as well as severance charges related to the Companys employee separation programs. Operating earnings in 2003 included a gain of $20 million on the sale of the segments high performance crystalline plastics assets. In addition, the operating earnings improved year over year due to increased sales volumes, a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, and continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw materials and energy costs.  VORIDIAN DIVISION   Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 2,183 $ 1,756 24 % Volume effect 9 % Price effect 12 % Product mix effect % Exchange rate effect 3 % Interdivisional sales 69 68 1 % Operating earnings 25 62 (60) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 13 2  External sales revenue increased $427 million primarily due to higher selling prices and increased sales volume. Higher selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $211 million, primarily in response to higher raw material and energy costs and improving market conditions in the second half of 2004. The volume increase is mostly a result of continued strong end market demand for PET polymers and continued substitution for other competitive materials in North America, Latin America, and Europe and had a positive impact on sales revenue of $156 million.  Operating earnings decreased $37 million, including an asset impairment and restructuring charge increase of $11 million. Operating earnings were also impacted by increased selling prices and higher sales volumes that were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs, particularly, paraxylene and ethylene glycol. Included in the 2003 results is a $14 million gain in 2003 from an insurance settlement related to the 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina facilities. 48   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 731 $ 635 15 % Volume effect 13 % Price effect (2) % Product mix effect 3 % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional sales 88 80 10 % Operating earnings 146 125 17 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1 External sales revenue increased $96 million. Increased sales volume had a positive impact of $83 million and improved product mix had a $17 million impact on revenue. The increase in sales volume and favorable shift in product mix were primarily attributable to acetyl chemicals in North America and acetate tow in the Asia Pacific region.  Operating earnings increased $21 million primarily due to increased sales volume that was partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.  DEVELOPING BUSINESSES DIVISION  Developing Businesses Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 121 $ 69 75 % Interdivisional sales 424 396 7 % Operating loss (86 ) (65 ) (32) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 21 Other operating income 7  External sales revenue increased $52 million primarily due to the continuing implementation of third party contracts at Cendian, the Companys logistics subsidiary. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2004 was primarily due to the increase in logistics services provided by Cendian to Eastman Division and Voridian Division business segments and the increase in sales volumes in those segments.  Operating losses increased $21 million primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charges of $21 million mainly related to the restructuring of Cendian. Also included in 2004 operating results is a $7 million gain from the sale of Ariel, a wholly owned subsidiary and provider of chemical regulatory products and services.  In 2004, the operating results for the DB segment were below the Companys expectations, primarily due to the inability of Cendian to achieve sufficient margins to offset operating costs. As a result, the Company announced Cendian will not be pursuing new customers or renewing contracts with existing customers, and the Company will  49  MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   reintegrate its logistics function. Reintegration is expected to be completed by the end of first quarter, 2005, which will result in elimination of associated interdivisional sales revenue.  The Company continues to view the majority of the SG&A and R&D costs within the DB segment as an extension of its R&D efforts, and management expects for 2005 that these combined R&D costs will be approximately 3 percent of revenue.  SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2004 COMPARED WITH 2003  Sales Revenue (excluding interdivisional sales)   (Dollars in millions)   2004   2003   Change   Volume Effect   Price Effect  Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect United States and Canada $  3,723 $  3,302  13 %  6 %  8 %  (1) %   % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,467 1,368 7 % (5) % 2 % 1 % 9 % Asia Pacific 785 643 22 % 9 % 6 % 6 % 1 % Latin America 605 487 24 % 11 % 11 % 1 % 1% $ 6,580 $ 5,800  The increase in sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $247 million. The higher selling prices mostly related to sales of intermediates chemicals, PET polymers, and polyethylene, and were primarily in response to increases in raw material and energy costs and high industry wide capacity utilization. While the impact of the restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activities in the CASPI segment had a negative impact on sales revenue, overall higher sales volumes, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, had a positive impact on sales revenue of $192 million.  2004 sales revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa increased compared to 2003 due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $119 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. 2004 sales volume declined 4% due to the impact of the restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activities in the CASPI segment. In all other segments, 2004 sales volumes increased compared to 2003.  2004 sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region increased significantly compared to 2003 primarily due to higher sales volume, particularly in the Fibers segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $57 million. A favorable shift in product mix and higher selling prices, particularly for intermediates products in the PCI segment, contributed $42 million and $36 million, respectively, to sales revenue.  2004 sales revenue in Latin America increased significantly compared to 2003 primarily due to higher sales volumes and higher selling prices, primarily related to PET polymers, each of which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $55 million.  With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States of America, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars and euros. In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate. For more information on these practices, see Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Part II Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 50    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2003 COMPARED WITH 2002  Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2003 2002 Operating earnings (loss) $ (267) $ 208 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (273)   79 Net earnings (loss) (270) 61 Earnings (loss) per share  Basic (3.50) 0.79  Diluted (3.50) 0.79 Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 489 5 Goodwill impairments 34  Other operating income (33)   Operating results for 2003 declined to a loss of $267 million compared to operating earnings for 2002 of $208 million. The decline in operating earnings was primarily attributable to asset impairments and restructuring charges and goodwill impairments of $489 million and $34 million, respectively. Other operating income related to a gain of $20 million for the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastics assets, which were formerly a part of the SP segment, and a gain of $13 million for the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets, which were formerly part of the CASPI segment. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs partially offset by higher selling prices had a negative impact on gross profit of approximately $100 million. Continued cost reduction efforts and favorable foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact on earnings.  Other factors impacting operating earnings for 2003 include:  a reduction in costs of approximately $40 million as a result of the previously reported change in vacation policy which was part of cost reduction measures implemented by the Company in the first quarter 2003; a gain of approximately $14 million recognized in the earnings statement as a credit to cost of sales from the insurance settlement related to the previously disclosed 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and Columbia, South Carolina facilities; increased pension and other post employment benefits expense of approximately $25 million; and lower depreciation and amortization expense of $30 million.  Operating results for 2002 were negatively impacted by several items:  approximately $39 million due to operational disruptions at the Companys Columbia, South Carolina and Rotterdam, the Netherlands facilities; costs pertaining to asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlement and other write offs recorded in 2002 totaling approximately $17 million; an unfavorable shift in product mix; and asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $5 million (as described more fully below and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements).  Net earnings for 2002 included the write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments and a loss of $12 million due to re measurement of an Argentine peso denominated tax receivable. 51    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      (Dollars in millions)   2003   2002   Change  Volume Effect  Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 5,800 $ 5,320 9 % (1) % 5 % 1 % 4 %  Sales revenue increased for 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to increased selling prices, particularly for the polymers and the PCI segments, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, of $275 million and $192 million, respectively. The increase in selling prices was primarily in response to an increase in raw material and energy costs.  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Gross Profit $ 810 $ 779 4 % As a percentage of sales 14.0 % 14.6 %  Gross profit for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices, continued cost reduction efforts, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. The higher raw material and energy costs were primarily attributable to the following raw materials: propane, paraxylene, ethylene glycol, and natural gas. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of sales is attributable to higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by selling price increases and had a negative impact on gross profit of approximately $100 million.  An insurance settlement of approximately $14 million related to the previously reported 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and Columbia, South Carolina had a positive impact on gross profit in 2003. In 2002, the same operational disruptions had a negative impact of $39 million. Both the charge in 2002 and the credit received in 2003 were reflected in cost of sales in the earnings statement of each year.  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Selling, General and Administrative Expenses $ 414 $ 407 2 % Research and Development Expenses 173 159 9 % $ 587 $ 566 As a percentage of sales 10.1% 10.6%  The increase in SG&A expenses for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher costs associated with the Companys growth initiatives, including the business building efforts within the DB segment. R&D expenses for 2003 were higher compared to 2002 primarily due to the costs related to the Companys increased efforts to develop certain operational efficiencies and efforts associated with new business initiatives.  52    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net Impairments and restructuring charges totaled $523 million during 2003, consisting of non cash asset impairments of $500 million and restructuring charges of $23 million. Effective January 1, 2004, certain commodity product lines were transferred from the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) segment to the CASPI segment, which resulted in the reclassification of asset impairment and severance charges of approximately $42 million for 2003. The following table summarizes the 2003 and 2002 charges:  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Eastman Division Segments: CASPI Segment: Fixed asset impairments $ 235 $ 2 Intangible asset impairments 175  Goodwill impairments 34  Severance charges 15  Site closure costs 3 3  PCI Segment: Fixed asset impairments 55 (1) Severance charges 2  SP Segment Severance charges 1  Total Eastman Division $ 520 $ 4 Voridian Division Segments: Polymers Segment: Fixed asset impairments 1 1 Severance charges 1  Fibers Segment:  Severance charges 1  Total Voridian Division $ 3 $ 1 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 523 $ 5 Total asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 489 5 Total goodwill impairments 34  Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 523 $ 5  2003  CASPI Segment  In the third quarter, the Company reorganized the operating structure within its CASPI segment and changed the segments business strategy in response to the financial performance of certain underlying product lines. Prior to the third quarter 2003, management was pursuing growth strategies aimed at significantly improving the financial performance of these product groups. However, due to the continued operating losses and deteriorating market conditions, management decided to pursue alternative strategies including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation. This change affected both the manner in which certain assets are used and the financial outlook for these product groups, thus triggering the impairments and certain restructuring charges. 53    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The third quarter fixed asset impairment charges of approximately $234 million primarily related to assets associated with the above mentioned underperforming product lines, and primarily impacted manufacturing sites in the North American and European regions that were part of the Lawter International, Inc. (Lawter), McWhorter Technologies, Inc. (McWhorter), and Chemicke Zavody Sokolov (Sokolov) acquisitions. Within these product lines, nine sites in North America and six sites in Europe were impaired. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the assets, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal.  The third quarter intangible asset impairment charges related to definite lived intangible assets of approximately $128 million and indefinite lived intangibles of approximately $47 million. The definite lived intangibles related primarily to developed technology and customer lists, and the indefinite lived intangibles primarily related to trademarks. These intangible assets were primarily associated with the acquisitions of Lawter and McWhorter. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the definite lived intangible assets, these assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal. Indefinite lived intangible assets were written down to fair value, as established by appraisal.  Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Company defined reporting units as one level below the operating segment level and considered the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. This resulted in the CASPI segment being deemed a single reporting unit. In the third quarter 2003, the reorganization of the operating structure within the CASPI segment resulted in new reporting units one level below the operating segment. Due to the change in strategy and lack of similar economic characteristics, these reporting units did not meet the criteria necessary for aggregation. As a result, the goodwill associated with the CASPI segment was reassigned to the new reporting units based upon relative fair values. The reporting unit that contained the above mentioned product lines was assigned $34 million of goodwill out of the total CASPI segment goodwill of $333 million. Because the Company determined that this reporting unit could no longer support the carrying value of its assigned goodwill, the full amount of that goodwill was impaired. The fair value of the other reporting unit within CASPI was sufficient to support the carrying value of the remainder of the goodwill.  In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized fixed asset impairments and site closure costs of $1 million and $3 million, respectively. The fixed asset impairments relate to additional impairments associated with the CASPI reorganization, as discussed above. The site closure charges relate primarily to additional costs related to the closure of the Companys Dusseldorf manufacturing site.  Other Segments  In the second quarter, the Company recorded an asset impairment charge of approximately $15 million related to the impairment of certain fixed assets used in certain of the PCI segments performance chemicals product lines that are located in Llangefni, Wales. In response to industry conditions, during the second quarter 2003 the Company revised its strategy and the earnings forecast for the products manufactured by these assets. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the asset, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by discounted future cash flows of the impacted assets.  In the third and fourth quarter, the PCI segment incurred charges of $40 million related to the impairment of fixed assets used in performance chemicals product lines as a result of increased competition and changes in business strategy in response to a change in market conditions and the financial performance of these product lines. The fixed asset impairments charge related to assets located at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility.  In the fourth quarter 2003, an asset impairment charge of $1 million was recorded related to certain research and development assets classified as held for sale. The fair value of these assets was determined using the estimated proceeds from sale less cost to sell. These charges impacted the Polymers segment.  During 2003, the Company recognized $20 million in severance costs for the actual and probable employee separations from consolidation and restructuring activities in the CASPI segment and ongoing cost reduction efforts throughout the Company. These changes are reflected in CASPI, PCI, SP, Polymers, and Fibers segments of $15 million, $2 million, $1 million, $1 million, and $1 million, respectively.  54    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  2002  CASPI Segment  A change in estimate for site closure costs for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon resulted in a $1 million credit to earnings in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized restructuring charges of approximately $4 million related to closure of plants in Dusseldorf, Germany; Rexdale, Canada; and LaVergne, Tennessee; and additionally recognized an asset impairment charge of approximately $2 million related to certain other European assets.  Other Segments  In the fourth quarter, a net $1 million credit to earnings was recorded for the PCI segment due to a $2 million credit associated with previously impaired fine chemicals product lines assets, and a charge of $1 million related to impaired assets used in certain research and development activities.  During 2002, the Company recorded charges related to the write down of underperforming polyethylene assets in the Polymers segment totaling approximately $1 million.  The following table summarizes the charges and changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges, the non cash reductions attributable to asset impairments, and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid:   (Dollars in millions) Balance at January 1, 2002 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2002 Noncash charges $ $ 2 $ (2 ) $ $ Severance costs 10 2 (10 ) 2 Site closure costs 13 3 (9 ) 7 Total $ 23 $ 7 $ (2 ) $ (19 ) $ 9  Balance at January 1, 2003 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2003 Noncash charges $ $ 500 $ (500 ) $ $ Severance costs 2 20 (12 ) 10 Site closure costs 7 3 (5 ) 5 Total $ 9 $ 523 $ (500 ) $ (17 ) $ 15  Substantially all severance and site closure costs are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year.  During 2003, terminations related to actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 500 employees. As of the end of 2003, approximately 350 of these terminations had occurred, with the remaining primarily relating to previously announced consolidation and restructuring activities of certain European CASPI manufacturing sites that were completed in early 2004.  55    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Other Operating Expense  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Other operating expense $ (33) $   Other operating income for 2003 totaled approximately $33 million and reflected gains of approximately $20 million on the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastic assets in first quarter, and approximately $13 million on the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets in fourth quarter. These items were reflected within the SP and CASPI segments, respectively.  Interest Expense, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Gross interest costs $ 133 $ 132 Less: capitalized interest 3 4 Interest expense 130 128 2 % Interest income 6 6 Interest expense, net $ 124 $ 122 2 %  Slightly higher gross interest costs for 2003 compared to 2002 reflected higher average debt levels due to bond offerings in June and November, with total proceeds of $495 million, in anticipation of the maturity of $500 million of 6 3/8% bonds due January 15, 2004, that were partially offset by lower average interest rates. For more information on the new bond issues and post year end bond retirements, see Notes 7 and 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  Other (Income) Charges, net  (dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Other Income $ (28) $ (14) Other Charges 18 16 Other (Income) Charges, net $ (10) $ 2  Included in other income are the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of non operating assets, royalty income, net gains on foreign exchange transactions, and other miscellaneous items. Included in other charges are net losses on foreign exchange transactions, the Companys portion of losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables, and other miscellaneous items.  Other income for 2003 primarily reflects net gains on foreign exchange transactions of $13 million and the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $10 million. Other charges for 2003 consist primarily of writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $4 million, fees on securitized receivables of $3 million, and other miscellaneous charges.  Other income for 2002 primarily reflects $9 million of earnings from the Companys equity investment in Genencor, net of a restructuring charge of $5 million. Additionally, other income included a net gain on foreign exchange transactions of $4 million. Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $8 million and fees on securitized receivables of $4 million.  For more information on the Companys equity investment in Genencor, see Item 1 Business Investment in Genencor and Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  56    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (108) $ 5 N/A Effective tax rate 28% 5%  The 2003 tax rate of 28% was impacted primarily by the treatment of the asset impairments and restructuring charges resulting in a lower expected tax benefit in certain foreign jurisdictions. This, coupled with non deductible goodwill impairments, resulted in an effective tax benefit rate lower than the statutory rate.  The 2002 effective tax rate was reduced by a net credit of $17 million resulting from the favorable resolution of prior periods tax contingencies, by a reduction in international taxes related to the implementation of the Companys divisional structure, and the elimination of nondeductible goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142.  In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from a foreign sales corporation or extraterritorial income exclusion.  Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net $ 3 $ (18)  SFAS No. 143  As required by SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, at January 1, 2003, the Company recognized existing asset retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of adoption, asset retirement costs capitalized as an increase to the carrying amount of the associated long lived asset and accumulated depreciation on those capitalized costs. As a result of adoption of this standard, the Company recognized an after tax credit to earnings of $3 million during the first quarter 2003, primarily related to a reduction in certain environmental liabilities.  If the asset retirement obligation measurement and recognition provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been in effect on January 1, 2002, the aggregate carrying amount of those obligations on that date would have been $27 million. If the amortization of asset retirement cost and accretion of asset retirement obligation provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been in effect during 2002, the impact on Earnings before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in 2002 would have been immaterial.  SFAS No. 142  The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," effective January 1, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 142 prohibit the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets; require that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment; require reporting units to be identified for the purpose of assessing potential future impairments of goodwill; and remove the forty year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite lives.  57   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows, was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an after tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter of 2002 to reflect lower than previously expected cash flows from certain related products. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), and Retained Earnings as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Additionally, the Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible assets related to assembled workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January 1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. The Company plans to continue its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter of each year, unless events warrant more frequent testing.  In 2003, the Company impaired certain goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the CASPI segment as discussed in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the Company completed its annual impairment review of the remaining goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. No further impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets was required due to this review.  SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT  EASTMAN DIVISION  CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003* 2002* Change External Sales $ 1,683 $ 1,601 5 % Volume effect (5) % Price effect 2 % Product mix effect 3 % Exchange rate effect 5 % Interdivisional sales   N/A Operating earnings (loss) (402) 51 N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 462 5 Other operating income (13)   * Sales revenue and operating earnings have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, improved product mix, and slightly higher selling prices that more than offset a decrease in sales volume. Foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact on sales revenue of $84 million primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. A favorable shift in product mix towards higher priced products had a positive impact on sales revenue of $48 million. Additionally, higher selling prices, as a result of increased raw material and energy costs had a positive impact on sales revenues of $34 million. The decline in sales volume, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $82 million, was primarily attributable to forgoing sales of certain low margin products and restructuring and divestiture actions that were taken during the year. 58    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Operating earnings for 2003 declined significantly compared to 2002 primarily due to the asset impairments and restructuring charges and goodwill impairments related to this segment of $462 million. Higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volume, which were partially offset by higher selling prices, cost reduction measures, and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates contributed to the decrease in operating earnings. Additionally, a gain of approximately $13 million from the sale of the segments colorant product lines contributed to earnings. For more information on the asset impairments and restructuring charges, see the discussion of impairments and restructuring charges above and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003* 2002* Change External Sales $ 1,098 $ 1,023 7 % Volume effect (1) % Price effect 7 % Product mix effect  % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional sales 495 383 29 % Operating earnings (loss) (45) 21 N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 57 (1)  * Sales revenue and operating earnings have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. The increase in selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $73 million and was primarily attributable to oxo chemical prices that increased in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Foreign currency exchange rates also had a positive impact on sales revenue of $12 million primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2003 was primarily due to higher selling prices as a result of higher raw material and energy costs.  The decrease in operating earnings 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charge of approximately $57 million. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs were largely offset by higher selling prices and cost reduction measures. For more information on the asset impairments and restructuring charges see the discussion of impairments and restructuring charges above and Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  59    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 559 $ 528 6 % Volume effect 1 % Price effect  % Product mix effect 1 % Exchange rate effect 4 % Interdivisional sales 49 45 9 % Operating earnings 63 34 85 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1  Other operating income 20   2003 Compared With 2002  External sales revenue for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates. These shifts, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro, contributed $20 million of the increased sales revenue. Additionally, slight increases in sales volume and some improvement in product mix contributed to the overall increase in revenues.  Operating earnings for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to a gain of $20 million on the sale of the segments high performance crystalline plastics assets, cost reduction measures, and favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.  VORIDIAN DIVISION  Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 1,756 $ 1,510 16 % Volume effect 2 % Price effect 11 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 4 % Interdivisional sales 68 55 24 % Operating earnings (loss) 62 35 77 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 2 1  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $162 million. A favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, also had a positive impact on sales revenue of $60 million. Additionally, new industry capacity in North America that began production earlier in 2003 than the Company had anticipated, resulted in a smaller than expected increase in sales revenue from volume.  60   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   Operating earnings for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to a $14 million insurance settlement recorded as a credit to cost of sales in the earnings statement of 2003. This settlement partially offsets the $39 million in charges to the cost of sales in 2002 for the operational disruptions that occurred in Europe and the United States. Other factors impacting operating earnings included higher selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, and the positive impact of a favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily for the euro. The positive shifts in selling prices and foreign currency exchange rates were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs, added PET polymers capacity in North America, which negatively impacted volumes, and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million.  Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 635 $ 642 (1) % Volume effect 4 % Price effect 1 % Product mix effect (9) % Exchange rate effect 3 % Interdivisional sales 80 72 11 % Operating earnings 125 133 (6) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1   2003 Compared With 2002  The slight decrease in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $57 million. The unfavorable shift in product mix was primarily due to a decrease in sales of acetate tow in North America partially offset by increased sales of acetate tow in other parts of the world. The shift in product mix was mostly offset by increases in sales volume, primarily for acetyl chemicals, and favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily for the euro, of $28 million and $16 million, respectively.  The decline in operating earnings for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily due to a decline of acetate tow demand in North America that was partially offset by increased acetate tow demand in other parts of the world.  DEVELOPING BUSINESSES DIVISION  Developing Businesses Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 69 $ 16 &gt;100 % Interdivisional sales $ 396 $ 330 20 % Operating loss $ (65) $ (70) 7 %  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to the continued implementation of customer contracts by Cendian and the implementation of gasification services contracts. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to geographic expansion of the logistics services provided by Cendian to Eastman Division and Voridian Division. 61    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Operating results for the DB segment improved in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily due to improved operating performance at Cendian that was partially offset by higher costs associated with other growth initiatives.  SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2003 COMPARED WITH 2002  Sales Revenue (excluding interdivisional sales)    (Dollars in millions)   2003   2002   Change   Volume Effect   Price Effect  Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect United States and Canada $  3,302 $  3,040  9 %  1 %  7 %  1 %   % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,368 1,170 17 % (1) %  % 2 % 16 % Asia Pacific 643 636 1 % (5) % 3 % 2 % 1 % Latin America 487 474 3 % (7) % 11 %  % (1) % $ 5,800 $ 5,320  The increase in sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $206 million. The higher selling prices mostly related to sales of intermediates chemicals, PET polymers, and polyethylene, and were primarily in response to increases in raw material and energy costs.  2003 sales revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa increased compared to 2002 due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $191 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro.  2003 sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region increased slightly compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in product mix that was offset by lower sales volume. Higher selling prices, particularly for intermediates products and PET polymers, and a favorable shift in product mix contributed $22 million and $13 million, respectively, to sales revenue. Lower sales volume, particularly for the PCI and Fibers segments, had a negative impact on sales revenue of $33 million.  2003 sales revenue in Latin America increased slightly compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices, primarily related to PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $52 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in sales volume, primarily attributable to lower sales of PET polymers and PCI segment intermediates chemicals, in the amount of approximately $34 million.  LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION  Cash Flows  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Net cash provided by (used in):   Operating activities $ 494 $ 244 $ 801 Investing activities (148) (160) (467) Financing activities (579) 397 (323) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (233) $ 481 $ 11     Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 325 $ 558 $ 77  62   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Cash provided by operating activities increased $250 million in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily as a result of changes in employee benefits and incentive pay liabilities as cash funding for U.S. defined benefit pension plans decreased $235 million. Increased net earnings in 2004 were due to higher gross margins and lower asset impairment charges, which were partially offset by changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable.  Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 decreased $557 million compared to 2002 primarily as a result of changes in employee benefits and incentive pay liabilities which had a year over year impact of $295 million on cash flows from operations. This impact largely reflected the change in the Companys contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans which were $238 million in 2003 versus $3 million in 2002. In addition, changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable, reduced year over year cash provided from operations by $123 million. The remaining decrease related to changes in other items.  Cash used in investing activities in 2004 decreased $12 million compared to 2003. In 2004, the Company sold certain businesses and product lines in its CASPI segment as well as Ariel, resulting in total net proceeds of $127 million. In 2003, the Company sold its high performance crystalline plastics assets and its colorant product lines and related assets for $70 million. The Company used an additional $18 million for additions to properties and equipment in 2004 as compared to 2003. In 2003, the Company received a return of a deposit of approximately $15 million.  Cash used in investing activities in 2003 decreased $307 million compared to 2002. In addition to the $70 million in proceeds from sales of assets in 2003 described above, additions to properties and equipment decreased $197 million in 2003. This decrease is primarily due to the 2002 purchase of $161 million of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. Cash used in investing activities in 2003 and 2002 also reflects other small acquisitions.  Cash used in financing activities in 2004 totaled $579 million and reflects the January 2004 repayment of $500 million of 6 3/8% notes and a decrease in commercial paper and credit facility borrowings of $50 million, offset by cash from stock option exercises of $77 million. Cash provided by financing activities in 2003 totaled $397 million primarily due to proceeds from long term borrowings of $495 million and an increase in commercial paper borrowings of $39 million. Cash used in financing activities in 2002 reflected a significant decrease in commercial paper and short term borrowings attributable to the use of proceeds from long term debt issued during 2002 and the use of cash generated from operations to repay indebtedness. The payment of dividends is also reflected in all periods.  The significant increase in cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2003 compared to 2002 is due to the issuance of two long term notes in 2003 in anticipation of the maturity of $500 million of 6 3/8% notes due January 2004. As described above, the debt was paid in January 2004.  In 2005, priorities for use of available cash will be to pay the dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings and fund targeted growth initiatives. On January 27, 2005, the Company announced that it has entered into an agreement with Danisco A/S under which Danisco will acquire all of Eastmans equity interest in Genencor for $419 million in cash as part of Daniscos acquisition of all the outstanding common stock of Genencor. Closing of this sale, which is subject to satisfaction of certain customary conditions, is targeted for first quarter 2005 and is expected to be completed by May 31, 2005.  Liquidity  Eastman has access to a $700 million revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") expiring in April 2009. Any borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility requires facility fees on the total commitment that vary based on Eastmans credit rating. The rate for such fees was 0.15% as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The Credit Facility contains a number of covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Eastman was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods presented.  Eastman typically utilizes commercial paper to meet its liquidity needs. The Credit Facility provides liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes. Accordingly, outstanding commercial  63   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   paper borrowings reduce borrowings available under the Credit Facility. Because the Credit Facility expires in April 2009, the Company has the ability to refinance commercial paper borrowings on a long term basis. Therefore, any commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit Facility are classified as long term borrowings. At December 31, 2004, the Companys commercial paper and revolving credit facility borrowings totaled $146 million at an effective interest rate of 2.98%. At December 31, 2003, the Companys commercial paper borrowings were $196 million at an effective interest rate of 1.85%.  The Company has effective shelf registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue a combined $1.1 billion of debt or equity securities.  On January 15, 2004, the Company retired $500 million of debt bearing interest at 6 3/8% per annum. These notes were reflected in borrowings due within one year in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2003. This debt was retired with a combination of cash generated from business activities, new long term borrowings and available short term borrowing capacity.  The Company contributed $3 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2004. The Company anticipates that additional funding of between $40 and $60 million may be required in 2005.  Cash flows from operations and the sources of capital described above are expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow requirements including those requirements related to the normal seasonal increase in working capital expected in the first half of the year. However, the Companys cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw materials availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastmans products, capacity utilization, and other factors described under "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors" below. Furthermore, the Company believes maintaining a financial profile consistent with an investment grade company is important to its long term strategic and financial flexibility.  Capital Expenditures  Capital expenditures were $248 million, $230 million, and $427 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2002 include $161 million related to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. The Company expects that 2005 capital spending will be approximately $340 million to $360 million which will exceed estimated 2005 depreciation and amortization of $310 million. In 2005, the Company will pursue projects that include the new PET facility in South Carolina, utilizing IntegRex technology, as well as other growth initiatives  Other Commitments  At December 31, 2004, the Companys obligations related to notes and debentures totaled approximately $1.9 billion to be paid over a period of 25 years. Other borrowings, related primarily to credit facility borrowings, totaled approximately $146 million.  The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2004 totaling approximately $1.9 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business. The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable, and month to month operating leases totaling approximately $183 million over a period of several years. Of the total lease commitments, approximately 20% relate to machinery and equipment, including computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately 55% relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities and land; and approximately 25% relate to railcars.  If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets. Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2004 totaled $90 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars, company aircraft, and other equipment. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.  64   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  In addition, the Company had other liabilities at December 31, 2004 totaling approximately $1.3 billion related to pension, retiree medical, and other postemployment obligations.  The obligations described above are summarized in the following table:  (Dollars in millions) Payments Due For    Period   Notes and Debentures Commercial Paper and Other Borrowings   Purchase Obligations   Operating Leases Other Liabilities (a)    Total 2005 $ 1 $  $ 279 $ 43 $ 144 $ 467 2006 4  274 34 146 458 2007   271 26 156 453 2008 250  166 15 118 549 2009 12 146 161 13 71 403 2010 and beyond 1,649  776 52 653 3,130 Total $ 1,916 $ 146 $ 1,927 $ 183 $ 1,288 $ 5,460   (a) Amounts represent the current estimated cash payments to be made by the Company for pension and other post employment benefits in the periods indicated. The amount and timing of such payments is dependent upon interest rates, health care trends, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, continuation or modification of the benefit plans, and other factors. Such factors can significantly impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company.  On January 15, 2004, the Company retired $500 million of 6 3/8% notes due in 2004.  The Company also had outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2004. Additional information related to these guarantees is included in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  Off Balance Sheet and Other Financing Arrangements  If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees in excess of the payments included above is remote. Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2004 totaled $90 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars, company aircraft, and other equipment.  As described in Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, Eastman has a 50% interest in and serves as the operating partner in Primester, a joint venture which manufactures cellulose acetate at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant. Eastman also owns a 50% interest in Nanjing Yangzi Eastman Chemical Ltd, a company which manufactures certain products for the adhesives market. The Company guarantees up to $125 million and $6 million, respectively, of the principal amount of these joint ventures third party borrowings, but believes, based on current facts and circumstances and the structure of the ventures, that the likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.  As described in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, Eastman entered into an agreement in 1999 that allows it to generate cash by reducing its working capital through the sale of undivided interests in certain domestic trade accounts receivable under a planned continuous sale program to a third party. Under this agreement, receivables sold to the third party totaled $200 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Undivided interests in designated receivable pools were sold to the purchaser with recourse limited to the purchased interest in the receivable pools.  The Company did not have any other material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including special purpose entities, for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements with contractually 65    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  narrow or limited purposes. Thus, Eastman is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk related to the above or any other such relationships.  The Company has evaluated material relationships including the guarantees related to the third party borrowings of joint ventures described above and has concluded that the entities are not Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) or, in the case of Primester, a joint venture that manufactures cellulose acetate at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant, the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the VIE. As such, in accordance with FIN 46R, the Company is not required to consolidate these entities. In addition, the Company has evaluated long term purchase obligations with two entities that may be VIEs at December 31, 2004. These potential VIEs are joint ventures from which the Company has purchased raw materials and utilities for several years and purchases approximately $40 million of raw materials and utilities on an annual basis. The Company has no equity interest in these entities and has confirmed that one party to each of these joint ventures does consolidate the potential VIE. However, due to competitive and other reasons, the Company has not been able to obtain the necessary financial information to determine whether the entities are VIEs, and if one or both are VIEs, whether or not the Company is the primary beneficiary.  In conjunction with the sale of certain businesses and product lines in the CASPI segment as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company accepted a variable interest in the form of a $50 million note receivable. The Company has evaluated the material relationships with the purchasing entity and concluded the Company is not the primary beneficiary. The Companys maximum exposure to loss is limited to the $50 million book value of the note receivable and unpaid interest, if any.  Guarantees and claims also arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers, and non consolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specified triggering events occur. Non performance under a contract could trigger an obligation of the Company. These potential claims include actions based upon alleged exposures to products, intellectual property and environmental matters, and other indemnifications. The ultimate effect on future financial results is not subject to reasonable estimation because considerable uncertainty exists as to the final outcome of these claims. However, while the ultimate liabilities resulting from such claims may be significant to results of operations in the period recognized, management does not anticipate they will have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position or liquidity.  Treasury Stock Transactions  The Company is currently authorized to repurchase up to $400 million of its common stock. No shares of Eastman common stock were repurchased by the Company during 2004, 2003 and 2002. A total of 2,746,869 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $112 million, or an average price of approximately $41 per share, have been repurchased under the authorization. Repurchased shares may be used to meet common stock requirements for compensation and benefit plans and other corporate purposes. In the first quarter 2002, the Company issued 126,614 previously repurchased shares as the annual Company contribution to the Eastman Investment and Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  Dividends  The Company declared cash dividends of $0.44 per share in the fourth quarters 2004, 2003 and 2002 and a total of $1.76 per share in 2004, 2003 and 2002.  ENVIRONMENTAL  Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes of which the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of which are regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure and postclosure under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Adequate 66    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  reserves for environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastmans policies as described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Companys preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, it does not believe its liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Companys assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $25 million to the maximum of $45 million at December 31, 2004.  In addition to remediation activities, the Company establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental assets it maintains. Environmental assets include but are not limited to landfills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds. When these types of assets are constructed, a reserve is established for the anticipated future environmental costs associated with the closure of the site asset based on its expected life. These future expenses are charged into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets. Reserves related to environmental assets accounted for approximately 55% of the total environmental reserve at December 31, 2004. Currently, the Companys environmental assets are expected to be no longer useable at various different times over the next 50 years. If the Company were to invest in numerous new environmental assets, or, these assets were to require closure a significant number of years before the Company anticipated they would, the amortization on them would increase, and could have a material negative impact on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Company views the likelihood of this occurrence to be remote, and does not anticipate, based on its past experience with this type of planned remediation, that an additional accrual related to environmental assets will be necessary.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had recognized environmental contingencies of approximately $56 million and $61 million, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for closure/postclosure costs, the amount accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives.  The Companys estimated cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were approximately $184 million, $187 million, and $195 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Cash expenditures estimated for 2005 are expected to remain at approximately $190 million. These amounts pertain primarily to operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also include expenditures for construction and development. The Company does not expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Companys planned level of capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.  INFLATION  In recent years, inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastmans costs. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market price, although derivative financial instruments may have been utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market price fluctuations.  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  In November, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4. The standard adopts the International Accounting Standards Boards view related to inventories that abnormal amounts of idle capacity and spoilage costs should be excluded from the cost of inventory and expensed when incurred. Additionally, the Statement clarifies the meaning of the term normal capacity. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal  67   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the effect SFAS No. 151 will have on its consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results from operations.  In December, 2004 the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29. SFAS No. 153 is based on the principle that nonmonetary asset exchanges should be recorded and measured at the fair value of the assets exchanged, with certain exceptions. This Statement requires exchanges of productive assets to be accounted for at fair value, rather than at carryover basis, unless neither the asset received nor the asset surrendered has a fair value that is determinable within reasonable limits or the transactions lack commercial substance as defined by the Statement. In addition, the Board decided to retain the guidance for assessing whether the fair value of a nonmonetary asset is determinable within reasonable limits. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the effect SFAS No. 153 will have on its consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results from operations.  In December, 2004 the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and other forms of stock based compensation. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for the Company as of the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005  SFAS No. 123R requires public companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the award of equity instruments based upon a grant date fair value using values obtained from public markets where such instruments are traded, or if not available, a mathematical pricing model. The cost is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. Effective with implementation, the Company will reflect this cost in its financial statements as a component of net income and earnings per share. Prior to implementation, public companies had the choice of early adoption of the standard or to continue reporting under the current requirements of APB Opinion No. 25 and to provide pro forma disclosure of this cost within the category of Significant Accounting Policies as a footnote to the financial statements. The Company is currently reporting under APB No. 25 until implementation in third quarter 2005.  Due to the concern for comparability of financial statements of prior years, SFAS No. 123R provides for two methods of implementation: (1) Modified Prospective Application and (2) Modified Retrospective Application. Modified Prospective Application provides for adoption of fair value cost recognition to all new, modified, repurchased, or cancelled awards after the effective date of the standard without retrospective application to prior interim and annual fiscal periods. The Modified Retrospective Application method provides for retrospective application to either the current fiscal year interim periods only or all prior years for which comparative financial statements are provided. While the Company has not yet decided which method of implementation will be selected, adequate disclosure of all comparative fiscal periods covered by financial statements will comply with requirements of the SFAS 123R.  OUTLOOK  For 2005, the Company expects:  that historically high raw material and energy costs will continue throughout much of 2005, and that the Company will continue to implement price increases intended to offset these higher costs;  strong volumes will continue in 2005 due to a strengthening economy, continued substitution of Eastman products for other materials, and new applications for existing products;  earnings improvement through discipline in pricing practices, a continued focus on profitable businesses and continued cost control initiatives;  that pension and other postemployment benefit expenses in 2005 will be similar to 2004 levels;  to contribute between $40 and $60 million to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2005;  net interest expense to decrease compared to 2004 as a result of anticipated lower average borrowings;  68   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  that SG&A and R&D costs within the DB segment combined with other R&D costs will be approximately 3 percent of revenue;  the effective tax rate to be approximately 30 percent, and certain tax benefits from the extraterritorial income exclusion to continue through 2005 or be offset;  to continue to evaluate its portfolio, which could lead to further restructuring, divestiture, or consolidations of product lines as it continues to focus on profitability, primarily in Eastman Division;  capital expenditures to increase to between $340 and $360 million and exceed estimated depreciation and amortization of $310 million; in 2005, the Company will pursue projects that include the new PET facility in South Carolina, utilizing IntegRex technology, as well as other targeted growth initiatives;  to complete the previously announced sale of Eastmans equity interest in Genencor to Danisco A/S targeted for first quarter 2005 with expected completion no later than May 31, 2005; and  that priorities for use of available cash will be to pay the quarterly cash dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings, and fund targeted growth initiatives.  See Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors below.  FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS  The expectations under "Outlook" and certain other statements in this Annual Report may be forward looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements and other written and oral forward looking statements made by the Company from time to time may relate to, among other things, such matters as planned and expected capacity increases and utilization; anticipated capital spending; expected depreciation and amortization; environmental matters; legal proceedings; exposure to, and effects of hedging of, raw material and energy costs and foreign currencies; global and regional economic, political, and business conditions; competition; growth opportunities; supply and demand, volume, price, cost, margin, and sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and other expected financial conditions; expectations, strategies, and plans for individual assets and products, businesses, segments and divisions as well as for the whole of Eastman Chemical Company; cash requirements and uses of available cash; financing plans; pension expenses and funding; credit ratings; anticipated restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activities; cost reduction and control efforts and targets; integration of acquired businesses; development, production, commercialization and acceptance of new products, services and technologies and related costs; asset, business and product portfolio changes; and expected tax rates and net interest costs.  These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions, including those mentioned with the specific statements. Such assumptions are in turn based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management plans and strategies, economic conditions and other factors. These plans and expectations and the assumptions underlying them are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions and expectations proves to be inaccurate or is unrealized. In addition to the factors described in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward looking statements:  The Company has deferred tax assets related to capital and operating losses. The Company establishes valuation allowances to reduce these deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Companys ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends on projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning strategies. Realization of these assets is expected to occur over an extended period of time. As a result, changes in tax laws, assumptions with respect to future taxable income and tax planning strategies could result in adjustments to these assets.  69   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The Company is endeavoring to exploit growth opportunities in certain core businesses by developing new products, expanding into new markets, and tailoring product offerings to customer needs. There can be no assurance that such efforts will result in financially successful commercialization of such products or acceptance by existing or new customers or new markets. The Company has made, and intends to continue making, strategic investments and enter into strategic alliances in technology, services businesses, and other ventures in order to build, diversify, and strengthen certain Eastman capabilities and to maintain high utilization of manufacturing assets. There can be no assurance that such investments will achieve their underlying strategic business objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Companys results of operations.  The Company owns assets in the form of equity in other companies, including joint ventures, technology investments and Genencor. Such investments are minority investments in companies which are not managed or controlled by the Company and are subject to all of the risks associated with changes in value of such investments including the market valuation of those companies whose shares are publicly traded. In addition, there can be no assurance that such investments will achieve the intended underlying strategic business objectives.   The Company has entered into an agreement with Danisco A/S under which Danisco will acquire all of Eastmans equity interest in Genencor as part of Daniscos acquisition of all the outstanding common stock of Genencor. In addition to being subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions, closing of the sale is also subject to the risk and uncertainties typically associated with such a public change in control transaction. There can be no assurance that the sale will close in a timely manner or at all. If the sale is not completed, available cash, and the Companys priority for use thereof, would be adversely impacted.  The Company has undertaken and will continue to undertake productivity and cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve performance and generate cost savings. There can be no assurance that these will be completed as planned or beneficial or that estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized.  In addition to productivity and cost reduction initiatives, the Company is striving to improve margins on its products through price increases where warranted and accepted by the market; however, the Companys earnings could be negatively impacted should such increases be unrealized, not be sufficient to cover increased raw material and energy costs, or have a negative impact on demand and volume. There can be no assurances that price increases will be realized or will be realized within the Companys anticipated timeframe.  The Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials for its operations and utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market fluctuations in raw material costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which the Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials.  While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are impacted by plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, and war or other outbreak of hostilities. Eastmans operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors.  70    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The Companys competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors in addition to those that the Company can impact. For example, supply and demand for certain of the Companys products is driven by end use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of the Companys products.  The Company has an extensive customer base; however, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced and no assurances can be made that the Company would be able to regain or replace any lost customers. In addition, the Companys competitive position may be adversely impacted by low cost competitors in certain regions and customers developing internal or alternative sources of supply.  Limitation of the Companys available manufacturing capacity due to significant disruption in its manufacturing operations could have a material adverse affect on sales revenue, expenses and results of operations and financial condition.  The Companys facilities and businesses are subject to complex health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations currently and in the future. The Companys accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. The amount accrued reflects the Companys assumptions about remedial requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.  The Company accesses the capital and credit markets on a regular basis. Access to these markets and the cost of capital is dependent in part upon the Companys credit rating received from independent credit rating agencies. An adverse change in the Companys credit rating could affect the renewal of existing credit facilities or the Companys ability to obtain access to new credit facilities or other debt financing in the future, could adversely affect the terms under which the Company can borrow, and could increase the cost of new borrowings, other debt, or capital.  The Companys operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company.  The foregoing list of important factors does not include all such factors nor necessarily present them in order of importance. This disclosure, including that under "Outlook" and "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors," and other forward looking statements and related disclosures made by the Company in this Annual Report and elsewhere from time to time, represents managements best judgment as of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in Company press releases) on related subjects.  71    ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT  MARKET RISK  The Company is exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal course of its business due to its use of certain financial instruments as well as transacting in various foreign currencies and funding foreign operations. To mitigate the Companys exposure to these market risks, Eastman has established policies, procedures, and internal processes governing its management of financial market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage its exposure to such risks.  The Company determines its market risk utilizing sensitivity analysis, which measures the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and or commodity prices.  The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing activities, which include long term borrowings used to maintain liquidity and to fund its business operations and capital requirements. Currently, these borrowings are predominately U.S. dollar denominated. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. For 2004 and 2003, the market risks associated with the fair value of interest rate sensitive instruments, assuming an instantaneous parallel relative shift in interest rates of 10% were approximately $91 million and $119 million, respectively, and an additional $10 million for each one percentage point change in interest rates thereafter. This exposure is primarily related to long term debt with fixed interest rates.  The Companys operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company continually evaluates its foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and the locations in which the Company conducts business. In order to mitigate the effect of foreign currency risk, the Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and currency options to hedge probable anticipated but not yet committed export sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than two years and denominated in foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of related exposures. It is the Companys policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency transactions for speculative purposes. For 2004, the market risks associated with forward exchange contracts utilizing a modified Black Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign currency hedged by the Company were approximately $15 million and an additional $1.4 million for each additional one percentage point adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2003, the Company had no outstanding forward exchange contracts or currency options. Further adverse movements in foreign currencies would create losses in fair value; however, such losses would not be linear to that disclosed above. This exposure, which is primarily related to foreign currency options purchased by the Company to manage fluctuations in foreign currencies, is limited to the dollar value of option premiums payable by the Company for the related financial instruments. Furthermore, since the Company utilizes currency sensitive derivative instruments for hedging anticipated foreign currency transactions, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying anticipated transactions.  The Company is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for certain of its major raw materials. To mitigate short term fluctuations in market prices for certain commodities, principally propane and natural gas, the Company enters into forwards and options contracts. For 2004 and 2003, the market risks associated with feedstock options and natural gas swaps assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in the underlying commodity price of 10% were $1 million and $4 million, respectively, and an additional $0.1 million and $0.3 million for each one percentage point move in closing prices thereafter.  72    
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements for Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company"), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. All references to earnings per share contained in this report are diluted earnings per share unless otherwise noted.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Companys management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, impaired assets, environmental costs, U.S. pension and other postemployment benefits, litigation and contingent liabilities, and income taxes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Companys management believes the critical accounting policies described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Companys financial condition and results. These policies require managements more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements.  Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. The Company believes, based on historical results, the likelihood of actual write offs having a material impact on financial results or earnings per share is low. However, if one of the Companys key customers were to file for bankruptcy, or otherwise be unable to make its required payments, or there was a significant continued slow down in the economy, the Company could be forced to increase its allowances. This could result in a material charge to earnings. The Companys allowances were $15 million and $28 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Impaired Assets  The Company evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets, including definite lived intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Such events and circumstances include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the asset, adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset is being used, significant changes in business climate, or current or projected cash flow losses associated with the use of the assets. The carrying value of a long lived asset is considered impaired when the total projected undiscounted cash flows from such assets are separately identifiable and are less than its carrying value. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long lived asset. For long lived assets to be held and used, fair value of fixed (tangible) assets and definite lived intangible assets is determined primarily using either the projected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved or appraisal. For long lived assets to be disposed of by sale or other than by sale, fair value is determined in a similar manner, except that fair values are reduced for disposal costs.  As the Companys assumptions related to long lived assets are subject to change, additional write downs may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are revised, the carrying amount of the related asset is adjusted, resulting in a charge to earnings. The Company recorded fixed (tangible) asset impairments of $134 million and definite lived intangible asset impairments of $5 million and indefinite lived intangible asset impairments of $1 million during 2004.  32   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Environmental Costs  The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Companys assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $25 million to the maximum of $45 million at December 31, 2004.  In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, the Company also establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental and other assets it maintains. Environmental assets include but are not limited to land fills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds. When these types of assets are constructed, a reserve is established for the future environmental costs anticipated to be associated with the closure of the site based on an expected life of the environmental assets. These future expenses are charged into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets. Currently, the Company estimates the useful life of each individual asset up to 50 years. If the Company changes its estimate of the asset retirement obligation costs or its estimate of the useful lives of these assets, the future expenses to be charged into earnings could increase or decrease.  The Companys reserve for environmental contingencies was $56 million and $61 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for asset retirement obligation costs, the amount accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives.  United States Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits  The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. Additionally, Eastman provides life insurance and health care benefits for eligible retirees and health care benefits for retirees eligible survivors. The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect the Companys assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase for employees and health care cost trends. At December 31, 2004, the Company assumed a discount rate of 5.75%; an expected return on assets of 9%; a rate of compensation increase of 3.75%; and an initial health care cost trend of 9% decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2009. The cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover, and plan participation. 33   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in the expected return on assets and assumed discount rate for U.S. pension plans and other postretirement welfare plans:  Change in Assumption  Impact on 2005 Pre tax U.S. Pension Expense Impact on December 31, 2004 Projected Benefit Obligation for U.S. Pension Plans Impact on December 31, 2004 Benefit Obligation for Other U.S. Postretirement Plans 25 basis point decrease in discount rate   +$5 Million   +$51 Million   +$23 Million 25 basis point increase in discount rate    $5 Million    $49 Million    $22 Million 25 basis point decrease in expected return on assets   +$2 Million   No Impact   N/A 25 basis point increase in expected return on assets    $2 Million   No Impact   N/A  The expected return on assets and assumed discount rate used to calculate the Companys pension and other postemployment benefit obligations are established each December 31. The expected return on assets is based upon the long term expected returns in the markets in which the pension trust invests its funds, primarily the domestic, international, and private equities markets. The assumed discount rate is based upon an index of high quality, long term corporate borrowing rates. If actual experience differs from these assumptions, the difference is recorded as an unrecognized gain (loss) and then amortized into earnings over a period of time, which may cause the cost of providing these benefits to increase or decrease. The charges applied to earnings in 2004, 2003, and 2002 due to the amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses were $44 million, $32 million, and $20 million, respectively.  The Company does not anticipate that a change in pension and other post employment obligations caused by a change in the assumed discount rate will impact the cash contributions to be made to the pension plans during 2005. However, an after tax charge or credit will be recorded directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity, as of December 31, 2005 for the impact on the pensions projected benefit obligation of the change in interest rates, if any. While the amount of the change in these obligations does not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication of the amount the Company will be required to contribute to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such cash contributions is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirement, and attrition rates of employees, and other factors.  Litigation and Contingent Liabilities  From time to time, the Company and its operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues a liability for such matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes the amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company. 34   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Income Taxes  The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The ability to realize the deferred tax assets is evaluated through the forecasting of taxable income using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. In the event that the actual outcome of future tax consequences differs from our estimates and assumptions, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material adverse impact on the consolidated results of operations and statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2004, a valuation allowance of $221 million has been provided against the deferred tax assets.  2004 OVERVIEW  Since the beginning of 2002, the Company has been implementing a turnaround strategy to improve profitability, which included an evaluation of its portfolio and implementation of initiatives to reduce costs. In 2004, the evaluation led to restructuring, divestitures, and consolidation within the Company, including the sale of underperforming businesses, product lines and related assets within the Companys Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks (CASPI) segment; the rationalization of capacity and consolidation of production in the Specialty Plastics (SP) segment; the implementation of a more integrated organizational structure in the Polymers segment; and restructuring of the Developing Businesses (DB) segment. These actions resulted in asset impairments and restructuring charges in 2004 of $206 million. Further, in January 2005, the Company announced that it has entered into an agreement with Danisco A/S to sell Eastmans equity interest in Genencor International, Inc., (Genencor), which is targeted for first quarter 2005 and is expected to be completed by May 31, 2005.  In full year 2004, operating earnings were $175 million, an improvement from the $267 million operating loss in 2003 and the best since 2000. These results included the impact of asset impairments and restructuring charges and a tax benefit received, both described in Notes 15 and 18 of the consolidated financial statements. The improved results were also accomplished through increased sales volume primarily attributed to a strengthening economy, new applications of certain products and increased substitution of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) polymers for other materials; increased selling prices, particularly in the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) and Polymers segments; a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, particularly in the Companys Eastman Division; ongoing labor and benefits reduction measures; and the application of process improvement technologies.  The Company also improved its cash flow from operations in 2004 by $250 million compared with 2003. The increased cash flow from operations, combined with proceeds from the divestiture of assets, resulted in the reduction of net debt (long and short term debt minus cash and cash equivalents) of approximately $300 million. In addition, during 2004 the Company continued to maintain its financial discipline while improving profitability. This was demonstrated by keeping selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses below 10 percent of sales revenue; having capital expenditures below depreciation and amortization; and maintaining a strong dividend.  The Company has also taken several initiatives to continue to improve margins in 2005, including the improvement of pricing processes and pricing strategies, particularly to recover historically high costs of raw materials and energy, and reduction of the labor force by approximately 20 percent. These actions, combined with a strengthening economy, have positioned the Company to enter a period of growth with increased profitability and financial flexibility.  35   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2004 COMPARED WITH 2003  The Companys results of operations as presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report are summarized and analyzed below:  Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2004 2003 Operating earnings (loss) $ 175 $ (267)  Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle  170    (273)  Net earnings (loss) 170  (270)  Earnings (loss) per share  Basic 2.20 (3.50)  Diluted 2.18 (3.50) Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 206 489 Goodwill impairments  34 Other operating income (7) (33)  Operating results for 2004 increased $442 million over results for 2003. This improvement included a $317 million reduction in asset impairments and restructuring charges partially offset by lower other operating income of $26 million. In addition, earnings were positively impacted by the following factors:  increased selling prices of approximately $350 million; increased volumes, excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated businesses and product lines; focus on more profitable product lines and the impact of favorable product mix; improved cost structure; and favorable impact of foreign exchange.  The above items more than offset an estimated $600 million increase in raw materials and energy costs.  Other operating income of $7 million in 2004 resulted from the sale of Ariel Research Corporation (Ariel), formerly part of the Companys DB segment. Other operating income in 2003 included a $20 million gain from the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastics assets, which were formerly a part of the SP segment, and a gain of $13 million for the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets, which were formerly part of the CASPI segment.  Operating results for 2003 were impacted by a reduction in costs of approximately $40 million as a result of the previously reported change in vacation policy. This policy was part of cost reduction measures implemented by the Company in the first quarter 2003. This change in policy impacted 2003 only. Also positively impacting 2003 results was a gain of approximately $14 million recorded as a credit to cost of sales on the earnings statement from the insurance settlement related to the previously disclosed 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina facilities. 36   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      (Dollars in millions)   2004   2003   Change  Volume Effect  Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 6,580 $ 5,800 13% 4% 6% 1% 2%  Sales revenue increased for 2004 compared to 2003 primarily due to increased selling prices, particularly for the polymers and the PCI segments, increased sales volumes, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, of approximately $363 million, $243 million, and $128 million, respectively. The increase in selling prices was primarily in response to an increase in raw material and energy costs and the Companys efforts to improve profitability.  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Gross Profit $ 978 $ 810 21 % As a percentage of sales 14.9% 14.0 %  Gross profit for 2004 increased compared to 2003 primarily due to the following factors:  increased selling prices in response to higher raw materials, particularly in PCI and Polymers, and the Companys continued efforts to improve profitability; volumes, excluding restructured, divested, and consolidated businesses and product lines, increased across all segments due to strengthening general economic conditions and the substitution of other materials with SPBO and Polymers products; focus on more profitable product lines, achieved by a variety of actions, including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activity, as well as improving product mix, particularly in CASPI, SPBO, and Fibers; and improved cost structure through restructuring efforts and cost reduction programs.  The above items more than offset higher raw material and energy costs primarily attributable to paraxylene, ethylene glycol, propane, coal, and natural gas.  The Company expects that higher raw material and energy costs will continue to negatively impact gross profit during 2005, mitigated to the extent the Company is able to continue to offset this impact in part through higher selling prices for certain of its products and through various cost reduction measures.  The Company continues to implement a variety of cost control measures to manage discretionary spending. Of the measures taken, a change in vacation policy favorably impacted 2003 results by approximately $40 million. This change in vacation policy did not have a significant impact on 2004 results.   (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) $ 450 $ 414 9 % Research and Development Expenses (R&D) 154 173 (11) % $ 604 $ 587 As a percentage of sales 9.2% 10.1%  The increase in SG&A expenses for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher compensation and employee related costs as well as higher professional service fees. Research and Development (R&D) expenses for 2004 were lower compared to 2003 primarily due to reduced labor costs as well as reduced project spending within Voridian Division. The Company continues to view the majority of the costs within the DB segment as an extension of its R&D efforts, and management expects for 2005 that these DB and R&D costs combined will be approximately 3 percent of revenue. 37   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net  Impairments and restructuring charges totaled $206 million during 2004, consisting of non cash asset impairments of $140 million and restructuring charges of $66 million. Effective January 1, 2004, certain commodity product lines were transferred from the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) segment to the CASPI segment, which resulted in the reclassification of asset impairment and severance charges of approximately $42 million for 2003. The following table summarizes the 2004 and 2003 charges:  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Eastman Division segments: CASPI segment: Fixed asset impairments $ 57 $ 235 Intangible asset impairments 6 175 Goodwill impairments 34 Severance charges 12 15 Site closure costs 6 3  PCI segment: Fixed asset impairments 27 55 Severance charges 10 2  Site closure costs 1 SP segment Fixed asset impairments 41 Severance charges 10 1  Site closure costs 2 Total Eastman Division $ 172 $ 520 Voridian Division segments: Polymers Segment: Fixed asset impairments 1 Severance charges 13 1 Fibers segment:  Severance charges 1 Total Voridian Division $ 13 $ 3 Developing Businesses Division segment:  Fixed asset impairments 9  Severance costs 8  Restructuring charges 4 Total Developing Businesses segment $ 21 $ Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 206 $ 523 Total asset impairments and restructuring charges, net $ 206 $ 489 Total goodwill impairments 34 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 206 $ 523  38   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  2004  Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges  During the fourth quarter 2004, the Company recorded asset impairments of $9 million and site closure and other restructuring charges of $9 million. The non cash asset impairments relate to the adjustment to fair value of assets at Cendian Corporation (Cendian), the Companys logistics subsidiary, impacting the DB segment, resulting from a decision to reintegrate Cendians logistics activities into Eastman. In addition, the Company recognized restructuring charges of $9 million primarily related to actual and expected severance of Cendian and other employees, as well as site closure charges primarily related to previously announced manufacturing plant closures.  In the third quarter 2004, the Company recognized asset impairments of approximately $27 million, primarily related to assets at the Companys Batesville, Arkansas and Longview, Texas manufacturing facilities. These impairments primarily relate to certain fixed assets in the performance chemicals product lines in the PCI segment that management decided to rationalize due to increased foreign competition. Also in third quarter, the CASPI segment incurred approximately $2 million in site closure charges primarily related to previously announced manufacturing plant closures, while the DB segment incurred approximately $3 million in restructuring charges related to the reorganization of Cendian.  In the second quarter 2004, the Company recognized $62 million in asset impairment charges related to assets held for sale. The assets were part of the Companys sale of certain businesses and product lines within the CASPI segment, which was completed July 31, 2004. The charges reflect adjustment of the recorded values of these assets to the expected sales proceeds. Also in second quarter 2004, the Company recognized an additional $4 million of site closure costs related primarily to previously announced manufacturing plant closures. These charges had an impact of approximately $2 million each to the CASPI and SP segments.  In the first quarter 2004, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $41 million and severance charges of $5 million primarily related to the closure of its copolyester manufacturing facility in Hartlepool, United Kingdom. The decision to close the Hartlepool site, which manufactured products that are within the Companys SP segments product lines, was made in order to consolidate production at other sites to create a more integrated and efficient global manufacturing structure. Accordingly, the carrying value of the manufacturing fixed assets was written down to fair value as established by appraisal and available market data. In addition, the Company recognized $1 million of fixed asset impairments and $1 million of site closure costs related to additional impairments within the CASPI reorganization and changes in estimates for previously accrued amounts.  In addition to the items discussed above, during 2004 the Company recognized $43 million in severance charges from ongoing cost reduction efforts throughout the Company and costs related to the Companys employee separation programs announced in April 2004, resulting in severance charges to the CASPI, PCI, SP, Polymers, and DB segments of $12 million, $10 million, $5 million, $13 million, and $3 million, respectively.  39   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges  2003  CASPI Segment  In the third quarter, the Company reorganized the operating structure within its CASPI segment and changed the segments business strategy in response to the financial performance of certain underlying product lines. Prior to the third quarter 2003, management was pursuing growth strategies aimed at significantly improving the financial performance of these product groups. However, due to the continued operating losses and deteriorating market conditions, management decided to pursue alternative strategies including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation. This change affected both the manner in which certain assets are used and the financial outlook for these product groups, thus triggering the impairments and certain restructuring charges.  The third quarter fixed asset impairment charges of approximately $234 million primarily related to assets associated with the above mentioned underperforming product lines, and primarily impacted manufacturing sites in the North American and European regions that were part of the Lawter International, Inc. (Lawter), McWhorter Technologies, Inc. (McWhorter), and Chemicke Zavody Sokolov (Sokolov) acquisitions. Within these product lines, nine sites in North America and six sites in Europe were impaired. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the assets, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal.  The third quarter intangible asset impairment charges related to definite lived intangible assets of approximately $128 million and indefinite lived intangibles of approximately $47 million. The definite lived intangibles related primarily to developed technology and customer lists, and the indefinite lived intangibles primarily related to trademarks. These intangible assets were primarily associated with the acquisitions of Lawter and McWhorter. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the definite lived intangible assets, these assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal. Indefinite lived intangible assets were written down to fair value, as established by appraisal.  Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Company defined reporting units as one level below the operating segment level and considered the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. This resulted in the CASPI segment being deemed a single reporting unit. In the third quarter 2003, the reorganization of the operating structure within the CASPI segment resulted in new reporting units one level below the operating segment. Due to the change in strategy and lack of similar economic characteristics, these reporting units did not meet the criteria necessary for aggregation. As a result, the goodwill associated with the CASPI segment was reassigned to the new reporting units based upon relative fair values. The reporting unit that contained the above mentioned product lines was assigned $34 million of goodwill out of the total CASPI segment goodwill of $333 million. Because the Company determined that this reporting unit could no longer support the carrying value of its assigned goodwill, the full amount of that goodwill was impaired. The fair value of the other reporting unit within CASPI was sufficient to support the carrying value of the remainder of the goodwill.  In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized fixed asset impairments and site closure costs of $1 million and $3 million, respectively. The fixed asset impairments relate to additional impairments associated with the CASPI reorganization, as discussed above. The site closure charges relate primarily to additional costs related to the closure of the Companys Dusseldorf manufacturing site.  Other Segments  In the second quarter, the Company recorded an asset impairment charge of approximately $15 million related to the impairment of certain fixed assets used in certain of the PCI segments performance chemicals product lines that are located in Llangefni, Wales. In response to industry conditions, during the second quarter 2003 the Company revised its strategy and the earnings forecast for the products manufactured by these assets. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the asset, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by discounted future cash flows of the impacted assets. 40   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  In the third and fourth quarter, the PCI segment incurred charges of $40 million related to the impairment of fixed assets used in performance chemicals product lines as a result of increased competition and changes in business strategy in response to a change in market conditions and the financial performance of these product lines. The fixed asset impairments charge related to assets located at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility.  In the fourth quarter 2003, an asset impairment charge of $1 million was recorded related to certain research and development assets classified as held for sale. The fair value of these assets was determined using the estimated proceeds from sale less cost to sell. These charges impacted the Polymers segment.  During 2003, the Company recognized $20 million in severance costs for the actual and probable employee separations from consolidation and restructuring activities in the CASPI segment and ongoing cost reduction efforts throughout the Company. These changes are reflected in CASPI, PCI, SP, Polymers, and Fibers segments of $15 million, $2 million, $1 million, $1 million, and $1 million, respectively.  The following table summarizes the charges and changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges, the non cash reductions attributable to asset impairments and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid:   (Dollars in millions) Balance at January 1, 2003 Provision/ Adjustments Non cash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2003 Noncash charges $ $ 500 $ (500 ) $ $ Severance costs 2 20 (12 ) 10 Site closure costs 7 3 (5 ) 5 Total $ 9 $ 523 $ (500 ) $ (17 ) $ 15  Balance at January 1, 2004 Provision/ Adjustments Non cash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2004 Noncash charges $ $ 140 $ (140 ) $ $ Severance costs 10 53 (37 ) 26 Site closure costs 5 13 (9 ) 9 Total $ 15 $ 206 $ (140 ) $ (46 ) $ 35  Substantially all severance and site closure costs are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year.  Actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 1,200 employees during 2004. As of the end of 2004, substantially all separations accrued for were completed.  During 2003, terminations related to actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 500 employees. As of the end of 2003, approximately 350 of these terminations had occurred, with the remaining primarily relating to previously announced consolidation and restructuring activities of certain European CASPI manufacturing sites that were completed in early 2004. 41   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Other Operating Income  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Other operating income $ (7 ) $ (33 )  Other operating income for 2004 totaled approximately $7 million for the gain on sale of Ariel in the fourth quarter, reflected in the DB segment.  Other operating income for 2003 totaled approximately $33 million and reflected gains of approximately $20 million on the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastic assets in first quarter, and approximately $13 million on the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets in fourth quarter. These items were reflected within the SP and CASPI segments, respectively.  Interest Expense, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Gross interest costs $ 126 $ 133 Less: capitalized interest 3 3 Interest expense 123 130 (5) % Interest income 8 6 Interest expense, net $ 115 $ 124 (7) %  Lower gross interest costs for 2004 compared to 2003 reflected lower average debt levels due to paydown of debt throughout the year, which were partially offset by higher average interest rates.  For 2005, the Company expects net interest expense to decrease compared to 2004 due to lower expected gross interest costs as a result of lower average borrowings.  Other (Income) Charges, net  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Other income $ (24 ) $ (28 ) Other charges 20 18 Other (income) charges, net $ (4 ) $ (10 )  Included in other income are the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of non operating assets, royalty income, net gains on foreign exchange transactions and other miscellaneous items. Included in other charges are net losses on foreign exchange transactions, the Companys portion of losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables and other miscellaneous items.  Other income for 2004 primarily reflects the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $14 million. Other charges for 2004 consist primarily of net losses on foreign exchange transactions of $7 million, fees on securitized receivables of $4 million, and writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $3 million.  Other income for 2003 primarily reflects net gains on foreign exchange transactions of $13 million and the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $10 million. Other charges for 2003 consist primarily of writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $4 million, fees on securitized receivables of $3 million, and other miscellaneous charges.  For more information on the Companys equity investment in Genencor, see Item 1 Business Investment in Genencor and Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. 42   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (106) $ (108) (2.0) % Effective tax rate N/A 28%  The 2004 effective tax rate was impacted by $90 million of deferred tax benefits resulting from the expected utilization of a capital loss resulting from the sale of certain businesses and product lines and related assets in the CASPI segment and $26 million of tax benefit resulting from the favorable resolution of a prior year capital loss refund claim. In addition, the effective tax rates for both 2004 and 2003 were impacted by the treatment of asset impairments and restructuring charges resulting in lower expected tax benefits in certain jurisdictions. The 2003 effective tax rate was also impacted by non deductible goodwill impairments.  Excluding the above items, the effective tax rate for 2004 and 2003 was 26 percent and 28 percent, respectively. These rates reflect the impact of foreign rate variances and extraterritorial income exclusion benefits on normal taxable earnings.  In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from the extra territorial income (ETI) exclusion. On October 22, 2004, the President of the United States signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act). The Jobs Act provides a deduction for income from qualified domestic production activities, which will be phased in from 2005 through 2010. The Jobs Act also provides for a two year phase out of the ETI exclusion. The domestic manufacturing benefit has no effect on deferred tax assets or liabilities existing at the enactment date. Rather, the impact of this deduction will be reported in the period in which the deduction is claimed on the Companys federal income tax return. The Company is currently assessing the details of the Jobs Act and the net effect of the phase out of the ETI exclusion and the phase in of this new deduction. This analysis is expected to be completed in mid 2005. Until such time, it is not possible to determine what impact this legislation will have on the Companys consolidated tax accruals or effective tax rate.  The Act also creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations. The Company is not yet in a position to decide whether, and to what extent, foreign earnings might be repatriated. Based upon analysis to date, however, it is reasonably possible that some amount up to $500 million might be repatriated considering the limitation under section 965 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code. The related income tax effects of any such repatriation cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The Company has not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on $318 million of undistributed earnings from non U.S. operations as of December 31, 2004. Until the Companys analysis of the Act is completed, the Company will continue to permanently reinvest those earnings. The Company expects to be in a position to finalize this assessment by mid 2005.  The Company expects its effective tax rate in 2005 will be approximately 30 percent.  Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net $  $ 3  SFAS No. 143  As required by SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, at January 1, 2003, the Company recognized existing asset retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of adoption, asset  43   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  retirement costs capitalized as an increase to the carrying amount of the associated long lived asset and accumulated depreciation on those capitalized costs. As a result of adoption of this standard, the Company recognized an after tax credit to earnings of $3 million during the first quarter 2003, primarily related to a reduction in certain environmental liabilities.  SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT  The Companys products and operations are managed and reported in three divisions comprising six operating segments. Eastman Division consists of the CASPI segment, the PCI segment, and the SP segment. Voridian Division contains the Polymers segment and the Fibers segment. The Developing Businesses Division consists of the DB segment.  The Companys divisional structure allows it to align costs more directly with the activities and businesses that generate them. Goods and services are transferred between the divisions at predetermined prices that may be in excess of cost. Accordingly, the divisional structure results in the recognition of interdivisional sales revenue and operating earnings. Such interdivisional transactions are eliminated in the Companys consolidated financial statements.  The CASPI segment manufactures raw materials, additives and specialty polymers, primarily for the paints and coatings, inks, and adhesives markets. The CASPI segments products consist of liquid vehicles, coatings additives, and hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters. Liquid vehicles, such as ester, ketone and alcohol solvents, maintain the binders in liquid form for ease of application. Coatings additives, such as cellulosic polymers, Texanol ester alcohol and chlorinated polyolefins, enhance the rheological, film formation and adhesion properties of paints, coatings and inks. Hydrocarbon resins and rosins and rosin esters are used in adhesive, ink, and polymers compounding applications. Additional products are developed in response to, or in anticipation of, new applications where the Company believes significant value can be achieved. On July 31, 2004, the Company completed the sale of certain businesses, product lines and related assets within the CASPI segment. The divested businesses and product lines were composites (unsaturated polyester resins), certain acrylic monomers, inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins, and textile chemicals.  The PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are used in a variety of markets and industrial and consumer applications, including chemicals for agricultural intermediates, fibers, food and beverage ingredients, photographic chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates, polymer compounding and chemical manufacturing intermediates. The PCI segment also offers custom manufacturing services through its custom synthesis business.  The SP segments key products include engineering and specialty polymers, specialty film and sheet products, and packaging film and fiber products. Included in these are highly specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics that possess unique performance properties for value added end uses such as appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronic packaging, medical packaging, personal care and cosmetics, performance films, tape and labels, fiber, photographic and optical film, graphic arts, and general packaging.  The Polymers segment manufactures and supplies PET polymers for use in beverage and food packaging and other applications such as custom care and cosmetics packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products and industrial. PET polymers serve as source products for packaging a wide variety of products including carbonated soft drinks, water, beer and personal care items and food containers that are suitable for both conventional and microwave oven use. The Polymers segment also manufactures low density polyethylene and linear low density polyethylene, which are used primarily in extrusion coating, film and molding applications.  The Fibers segment manufactures Estron acetate tow and Estrobond triacetin plasticizers which are used primarily in cigarette filters; Estron and Chromspun acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; acetate flake for use by other acetate tow producers; and acetyl chemicals.  The DB segment includes new businesses and certain investments in growth opportunities that leverage the Companys technology expertise, intellectual property and know how into business models that extend to new customers and markets. The segment includes, among other new and developing businesses, Centrus, a new  44    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  business in food safety diagnostics, and Eastmans gasification services. The DB segment also includes the results of Cendian, which is being reintegrated back into Eastman, and Ariel, which was sold in fourth quarter, 2004.  Effective January 1, 2004, certain commodity product lines were transferred from the PCI segment to the CASPI segment, which resulted in the reclassification of asset impairment charges of approximately $42 million for 2003.  Effective January 1, 2003, sales and operating results for developing businesses activities were moved from the CASPI, PCI, and SP segments to the DB segment. During 2002, these amounts were included within the CASPI, PCI, and SP segments. During 2001, these amounts had been split among all segments.  Accordingly, the prior year amounts for sales and operating earnings have been reclassified for all periods presented. These revisions had no effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements.  For additional information concerning an analysis of the results of the Companys operating segments, see Note 20 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 to this Annual Report.  45   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  EASTMAN DIVISION  CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change Total external sales $ 1,554 $ 1,683 (8) % Volume effect (11) % Price effect 2 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 2 % Sales restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines (1) 441 719 (39) % Sales continuing product lines 1,113 964 15 % Interdivisional Sales 1 % Total operating earnings (loss) 67 (402 ) &gt; 100 % Operating earnings (loss) restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines (1) (2) (85 ) (538 ) 84 % Operating earnings continuing product lines 152 136 12 %  Total asset impairments and restructuring charges 81 462 Asset impairments and restructuring charges restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines (1) 72 457 Asset impairments and restructuring charges continuing product lines 9 5 Other operating income 13 (1) These businesses and product lines include acrylate ester monomers, composites (unsaturated polyester resins), inks and graphic arts raw materials, liquid resins, powder resins and textile chemicals divested on July 31, 2004 as well as other restructuring, divestiture and consolidation activities that the Company has completed related to these businesses and product lines.  (2) Includes allocated costs consistent with the Companys historical practices, some of which remain and were reallocated to the remainder of the segment and other segments subsequent to restructure, consolidation and divestiture.  On July 31, 2004, the Company completed the sale of certain businesses, product lines and related assets within the CASPI segment. This sale includes portions of the resins and monomers, and inks and graphic arts product groups. As a result, the Company has presented CASPI segment sales revenue, operating earnings, and asset impairments and restructuring charges for restructured, divested, and consolidated product lines and continuing product lines. For additional information, see Exhibits 99.01 and 99.02 filed with this report.  External sales revenue decreased $129 million due to lower sales volume resulting from the divestiture discussed above. Excluding the sales from these sources for both 2004 and 2003, sales revenue increased by 15 percent primarily due to an 11 percent increase in volume. Continuing businesses benefited from improved end market demand attributable to strong economic growth and successful marketing of existing products in new applications.  Operating earnings increased $469 million due to lower asset impairment and restructuring charges of approximately $381 million as well as a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, increased 46   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  sales volume, and continued cost reduction efforts that were partially offset by higher raw materials and energy costs, especially propane.  PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 1,347 $ 1,098 23 % Volume effect 12 % Price effect 11 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional sales 583 495 18 % Operating earnings (loss) 16 (45 ) &gt;100 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 38 57  The increase in external sales revenue of $249 million is primarily due to increased sales volume and higher selling prices. The increase in volume had a positive impact on sales revenue of $133 million and was attributable to improved end market demand as a result of strong economic growth and implementation of long term supply arrangements with key customers. Additionally, higher selling prices, as a result of significantly increased raw material and energy costs, had a positive impact on sales revenues of $117 million. The increase in interdivisional sales was due to both higher selling prices as a result of higher raw material and energy costs and increased volume.  Operating earnings increased $61 million, partially due to a decrease in asset impairment and restructuring charges of $19 million. Operating earnings were also favorably impacted by higher sales volume, higher selling prices, and continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw materials and energy prices. Volume growth was primarily due to improved end market demand as a result of strong economic growth, implementation of long term supply arrangements with key customers and debottlenecking of production capacity at the Longview, Texas site. Asset impairment and restructuring charges of $38 million in 2004 relate to manufacturing facilities in the Companys Batesville, Arkansas and Longview, Texas sites. Asset impairment and restructuring charges of $57 million in 2003 related to the Companys manufacturing site in Llangefni, Wales.  SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 644 $ 559 15 % Volume effect 12 % Price effect 1 % Product mix effect % Exchange rate effect 2 % Interdivisional sales 51 49 4 % Operating earnings 13 63 (79) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 53 1 Other operating income 20  47   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The increase in external sales revenue of $85 million for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher sales volume attributed to strong market demand for products in both new and existing applications including eyewear, housewares, and cosmetics packaging in North America and Asia Pacific regions. The increase in volume had a positive impact on sales revenue of $65 million.  Operating earnings for 2004 decreased $50 million compared to 2003 primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charges of $53 million related primarily to the closure of the Hartlepool, United Kingdom manufacturing site as well as severance charges related to the Companys employee separation programs. Operating earnings in 2003 included a gain of $20 million on the sale of the segments high performance crystalline plastics assets. In addition, the operating earnings improved year over year due to increased sales volumes, a continued focus on more profitable businesses and product lines, and continued cost reduction efforts that more than offset higher raw materials and energy costs.  VORIDIAN DIVISION   Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 2,183 $ 1,756 24 % Volume effect 9 % Price effect 12 % Product mix effect % Exchange rate effect 3 % Interdivisional sales 69 68 1 % Operating earnings 25 62 (60) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 13 2  External sales revenue increased $427 million primarily due to higher selling prices and increased sales volume. Higher selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $211 million, primarily in response to higher raw material and energy costs and improving market conditions in the second half of 2004. The volume increase is mostly a result of continued strong end market demand for PET polymers and continued substitution for other competitive materials in North America, Latin America, and Europe and had a positive impact on sales revenue of $156 million.  Operating earnings decreased $37 million, including an asset impairment and restructuring charge increase of $11 million. Operating earnings were also impacted by increased selling prices and higher sales volumes that were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs, particularly, paraxylene and ethylene glycol. Included in the 2003 results is a $14 million gain in 2003 from an insurance settlement related to the 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands and Columbia, South Carolina facilities. 48   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 731 $ 635 15 % Volume effect 13 % Price effect (2) % Product mix effect 3 % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional sales 88 80 10 % Operating earnings 146 125 17 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1 External sales revenue increased $96 million. Increased sales volume had a positive impact of $83 million and improved product mix had a $17 million impact on revenue. The increase in sales volume and favorable shift in product mix were primarily attributable to acetyl chemicals in North America and acetate tow in the Asia Pacific region.  Operating earnings increased $21 million primarily due to increased sales volume that was partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.  DEVELOPING BUSINESSES DIVISION  Developing Businesses Segment (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Change External sales $ 121 $ 69 75 % Interdivisional sales 424 396 7 % Operating loss (86 ) (65 ) (32) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 21 Other operating income 7  External sales revenue increased $52 million primarily due to the continuing implementation of third party contracts at Cendian, the Companys logistics subsidiary. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2004 was primarily due to the increase in logistics services provided by Cendian to Eastman Division and Voridian Division business segments and the increase in sales volumes in those segments.  Operating losses increased $21 million primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charges of $21 million mainly related to the restructuring of Cendian. Also included in 2004 operating results is a $7 million gain from the sale of Ariel, a wholly owned subsidiary and provider of chemical regulatory products and services.  In 2004, the operating results for the DB segment were below the Companys expectations, primarily due to the inability of Cendian to achieve sufficient margins to offset operating costs. As a result, the Company announced Cendian will not be pursuing new customers or renewing contracts with existing customers, and the Company will  49  MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   reintegrate its logistics function. Reintegration is expected to be completed by the end of first quarter, 2005, which will result in elimination of associated interdivisional sales revenue.  The Company continues to view the majority of the SG&A and R&D costs within the DB segment as an extension of its R&D efforts, and management expects for 2005 that these combined R&D costs will be approximately 3 percent of revenue.  SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2004 COMPARED WITH 2003  Sales Revenue (excluding interdivisional sales)   (Dollars in millions)   2004   2003   Change   Volume Effect   Price Effect  Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect United States and Canada $  3,723 $  3,302  13 %  6 %  8 %  (1) %   % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,467 1,368 7 % (5) % 2 % 1 % 9 % Asia Pacific 785 643 22 % 9 % 6 % 6 % 1 % Latin America 605 487 24 % 11 % 11 % 1 % 1% $ 6,580 $ 5,800  The increase in sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $247 million. The higher selling prices mostly related to sales of intermediates chemicals, PET polymers, and polyethylene, and were primarily in response to increases in raw material and energy costs and high industry wide capacity utilization. While the impact of the restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activities in the CASPI segment had a negative impact on sales revenue, overall higher sales volumes, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, had a positive impact on sales revenue of $192 million.  2004 sales revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa increased compared to 2003 due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $119 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. 2004 sales volume declined 4% due to the impact of the restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activities in the CASPI segment. In all other segments, 2004 sales volumes increased compared to 2003.  2004 sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region increased significantly compared to 2003 primarily due to higher sales volume, particularly in the Fibers segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $57 million. A favorable shift in product mix and higher selling prices, particularly for intermediates products in the PCI segment, contributed $42 million and $36 million, respectively, to sales revenue.  2004 sales revenue in Latin America increased significantly compared to 2003 primarily due to higher sales volumes and higher selling prices, primarily related to PET polymers, each of which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $55 million.  With a substantial portion of sales to customers outside the United States of America, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars and euros. In addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is appropriate. For more information on these practices, see Note 8 to the Companys consolidated financial statements and Part II Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 50    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 2003 COMPARED WITH 2002  Earnings (Loss) (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2003 2002 Operating earnings (loss) $ (267) $ 208 Net earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (273)   79 Net earnings (loss) (270) 61 Earnings (loss) per share  Basic (3.50) 0.79  Diluted (3.50) 0.79 Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 489 5 Goodwill impairments 34  Other operating income (33)   Operating results for 2003 declined to a loss of $267 million compared to operating earnings for 2002 of $208 million. The decline in operating earnings was primarily attributable to asset impairments and restructuring charges and goodwill impairments of $489 million and $34 million, respectively. Other operating income related to a gain of $20 million for the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastics assets, which were formerly a part of the SP segment, and a gain of $13 million for the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets, which were formerly part of the CASPI segment. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs partially offset by higher selling prices had a negative impact on gross profit of approximately $100 million. Continued cost reduction efforts and favorable foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact on earnings.  Other factors impacting operating earnings for 2003 include:  a reduction in costs of approximately $40 million as a result of the previously reported change in vacation policy which was part of cost reduction measures implemented by the Company in the first quarter 2003; a gain of approximately $14 million recognized in the earnings statement as a credit to cost of sales from the insurance settlement related to the previously disclosed 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and Columbia, South Carolina facilities; increased pension and other post employment benefits expense of approximately $25 million; and lower depreciation and amortization expense of $30 million.  Operating results for 2002 were negatively impacted by several items:  approximately $39 million due to operational disruptions at the Companys Columbia, South Carolina and Rotterdam, the Netherlands facilities; costs pertaining to asset charges relating primarily to equipment dismantlement and other write offs recorded in 2002 totaling approximately $17 million; an unfavorable shift in product mix; and asset impairments and restructuring charges totaling approximately $5 million (as described more fully below and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements).  Net earnings for 2002 included the write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments and a loss of $12 million due to re measurement of an Argentine peso denominated tax receivable. 51    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      (Dollars in millions)   2003   2002   Change  Volume Effect  Price Effect Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect Sales $ 5,800 $ 5,320 9 % (1) % 5 % 1 % 4 %  Sales revenue increased for 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to increased selling prices, particularly for the polymers and the PCI segments, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, of $275 million and $192 million, respectively. The increase in selling prices was primarily in response to an increase in raw material and energy costs.  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Gross Profit $ 810 $ 779 4 % As a percentage of sales 14.0 % 14.6 %  Gross profit for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices, continued cost reduction efforts, and favorable foreign currency exchange rates that more than offset higher raw material and energy costs. The higher raw material and energy costs were primarily attributable to the following raw materials: propane, paraxylene, ethylene glycol, and natural gas. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of sales is attributable to higher raw material and energy costs that were partially offset by selling price increases and had a negative impact on gross profit of approximately $100 million.  An insurance settlement of approximately $14 million related to the previously reported 2002 operational disruptions at the Companys plants in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and Columbia, South Carolina had a positive impact on gross profit in 2003. In 2002, the same operational disruptions had a negative impact of $39 million. Both the charge in 2002 and the credit received in 2003 were reflected in cost of sales in the earnings statement of each year.  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Selling, General and Administrative Expenses $ 414 $ 407 2 % Research and Development Expenses 173 159 9 % $ 587 $ 566 As a percentage of sales 10.1% 10.6%  The increase in SG&A expenses for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher costs associated with the Companys growth initiatives, including the business building efforts within the DB segment. R&D expenses for 2003 were higher compared to 2002 primarily due to the costs related to the Companys increased efforts to develop certain operational efficiencies and efforts associated with new business initiatives.  52    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net Impairments and restructuring charges totaled $523 million during 2003, consisting of non cash asset impairments of $500 million and restructuring charges of $23 million. Effective January 1, 2004, certain commodity product lines were transferred from the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates (PCI) segment to the CASPI segment, which resulted in the reclassification of asset impairment and severance charges of approximately $42 million for 2003. The following table summarizes the 2003 and 2002 charges:  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Eastman Division Segments: CASPI Segment: Fixed asset impairments $ 235 $ 2 Intangible asset impairments 175  Goodwill impairments 34  Severance charges 15  Site closure costs 3 3  PCI Segment: Fixed asset impairments 55 (1) Severance charges 2  SP Segment Severance charges 1  Total Eastman Division $ 520 $ 4 Voridian Division Segments: Polymers Segment: Fixed asset impairments 1 1 Severance charges 1  Fibers Segment:  Severance charges 1  Total Voridian Division $ 3 $ 1 Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 523 $ 5 Total asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 489 5 Total goodwill impairments 34  Total Eastman Chemical Company $ 523 $ 5  2003  CASPI Segment  In the third quarter, the Company reorganized the operating structure within its CASPI segment and changed the segments business strategy in response to the financial performance of certain underlying product lines. Prior to the third quarter 2003, management was pursuing growth strategies aimed at significantly improving the financial performance of these product groups. However, due to the continued operating losses and deteriorating market conditions, management decided to pursue alternative strategies including restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation. This change affected both the manner in which certain assets are used and the financial outlook for these product groups, thus triggering the impairments and certain restructuring charges. 53    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The third quarter fixed asset impairment charges of approximately $234 million primarily related to assets associated with the above mentioned underperforming product lines, and primarily impacted manufacturing sites in the North American and European regions that were part of the Lawter International, Inc. (Lawter), McWhorter Technologies, Inc. (McWhorter), and Chemicke Zavody Sokolov (Sokolov) acquisitions. Within these product lines, nine sites in North America and six sites in Europe were impaired. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the assets, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal.  The third quarter intangible asset impairment charges related to definite lived intangible assets of approximately $128 million and indefinite lived intangibles of approximately $47 million. The definite lived intangibles related primarily to developed technology and customer lists, and the indefinite lived intangibles primarily related to trademarks. These intangible assets were primarily associated with the acquisitions of Lawter and McWhorter. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the definite lived intangible assets, these assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by appraisal. Indefinite lived intangible assets were written down to fair value, as established by appraisal.  Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the Company defined reporting units as one level below the operating segment level and considered the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 142 in aggregating the reporting units. This resulted in the CASPI segment being deemed a single reporting unit. In the third quarter 2003, the reorganization of the operating structure within the CASPI segment resulted in new reporting units one level below the operating segment. Due to the change in strategy and lack of similar economic characteristics, these reporting units did not meet the criteria necessary for aggregation. As a result, the goodwill associated with the CASPI segment was reassigned to the new reporting units based upon relative fair values. The reporting unit that contained the above mentioned product lines was assigned $34 million of goodwill out of the total CASPI segment goodwill of $333 million. Because the Company determined that this reporting unit could no longer support the carrying value of its assigned goodwill, the full amount of that goodwill was impaired. The fair value of the other reporting unit within CASPI was sufficient to support the carrying value of the remainder of the goodwill.  In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized fixed asset impairments and site closure costs of $1 million and $3 million, respectively. The fixed asset impairments relate to additional impairments associated with the CASPI reorganization, as discussed above. The site closure charges relate primarily to additional costs related to the closure of the Companys Dusseldorf manufacturing site.  Other Segments  In the second quarter, the Company recorded an asset impairment charge of approximately $15 million related to the impairment of certain fixed assets used in certain of the PCI segments performance chemicals product lines that are located in Llangefni, Wales. In response to industry conditions, during the second quarter 2003 the Company revised its strategy and the earnings forecast for the products manufactured by these assets. As the undiscounted future cash flows could not support the carrying value of the asset, the fixed assets were written down to fair value, as established primarily by discounted future cash flows of the impacted assets.  In the third and fourth quarter, the PCI segment incurred charges of $40 million related to the impairment of fixed assets used in performance chemicals product lines as a result of increased competition and changes in business strategy in response to a change in market conditions and the financial performance of these product lines. The fixed asset impairments charge related to assets located at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility.  In the fourth quarter 2003, an asset impairment charge of $1 million was recorded related to certain research and development assets classified as held for sale. The fair value of these assets was determined using the estimated proceeds from sale less cost to sell. These charges impacted the Polymers segment.  During 2003, the Company recognized $20 million in severance costs for the actual and probable employee separations from consolidation and restructuring activities in the CASPI segment and ongoing cost reduction efforts throughout the Company. These changes are reflected in CASPI, PCI, SP, Polymers, and Fibers segments of $15 million, $2 million, $1 million, $1 million, and $1 million, respectively.  54    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  2002  CASPI Segment  A change in estimate for site closure costs for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Portland, Oregon resulted in a $1 million credit to earnings in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, the Company recognized restructuring charges of approximately $4 million related to closure of plants in Dusseldorf, Germany; Rexdale, Canada; and LaVergne, Tennessee; and additionally recognized an asset impairment charge of approximately $2 million related to certain other European assets.  Other Segments  In the fourth quarter, a net $1 million credit to earnings was recorded for the PCI segment due to a $2 million credit associated with previously impaired fine chemicals product lines assets, and a charge of $1 million related to impaired assets used in certain research and development activities.  During 2002, the Company recorded charges related to the write down of underperforming polyethylene assets in the Polymers segment totaling approximately $1 million.  The following table summarizes the charges and changes in estimates described above, other asset impairments and restructuring charges, the non cash reductions attributable to asset impairments, and the cash reductions in shutdown reserves for severance costs and site closure costs paid:   (Dollars in millions) Balance at January 1, 2002 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2002 Noncash charges $ $ 2 $ (2 ) $ $ Severance costs 10 2 (10 ) 2 Site closure costs 13 3 (9 ) 7 Total $ 23 $ 7 $ (2 ) $ (19 ) $ 9  Balance at January 1, 2003 Provision/ Adjustments Noncash Reductions Cash Reductions Balance at December 31, 2003 Noncash charges $ $ 500 $ (500 ) $ $ Severance costs 2 20 (12 ) 10 Site closure costs 7 3 (5 ) 5 Total $ 9 $ 523 $ (500 ) $ (17 ) $ 15  Substantially all severance and site closure costs are expected to be applied to the reserves within one year.  During 2003, terminations related to actual and probable involuntary separations totaled approximately 500 employees. As of the end of 2003, approximately 350 of these terminations had occurred, with the remaining primarily relating to previously announced consolidation and restructuring activities of certain European CASPI manufacturing sites that were completed in early 2004.  55    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Other Operating Expense  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Other operating expense $ (33) $   Other operating income for 2003 totaled approximately $33 million and reflected gains of approximately $20 million on the sale of the Companys high performance crystalline plastic assets in first quarter, and approximately $13 million on the sale of the Companys colorant product lines and related assets in fourth quarter. These items were reflected within the SP and CASPI segments, respectively.  Interest Expense, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Gross interest costs $ 133 $ 132 Less: capitalized interest 3 4 Interest expense 130 128 2 % Interest income 6 6 Interest expense, net $ 124 $ 122 2 %  Slightly higher gross interest costs for 2003 compared to 2002 reflected higher average debt levels due to bond offerings in June and November, with total proceeds of $495 million, in anticipation of the maturity of $500 million of 6 3/8% bonds due January 15, 2004, that were partially offset by lower average interest rates. For more information on the new bond issues and post year end bond retirements, see Notes 7 and 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  Other (Income) Charges, net  (dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Other Income $ (28) $ (14) Other Charges 18 16 Other (Income) Charges, net $ (10) $ 2  Included in other income are the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investments, gains on sales of non operating assets, royalty income, net gains on foreign exchange transactions, and other miscellaneous items. Included in other charges are net losses on foreign exchange transactions, the Companys portion of losses from its equity investments, losses on sales of nonoperating assets, fees on securitized receivables, and other miscellaneous items.  Other income for 2003 primarily reflects net gains on foreign exchange transactions of $13 million and the Companys portion of earnings from its equity investment in Genencor of $10 million. Other charges for 2003 consist primarily of writedowns to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $4 million, fees on securitized receivables of $3 million, and other miscellaneous charges.  Other income for 2002 primarily reflects $9 million of earnings from the Companys equity investment in Genencor, net of a restructuring charge of $5 million. Additionally, other income included a net gain on foreign exchange transactions of $4 million. Other charges for 2002 primarily reflected a write down to fair value of certain technology business venture investments due to other than temporary declines in value of $8 million and fees on securitized receivables of $4 million.  For more information on the Companys equity investment in Genencor, see Item 1 Business Investment in Genencor and Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  56    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (108) $ 5 N/A Effective tax rate 28% 5%  The 2003 tax rate of 28% was impacted primarily by the treatment of the asset impairments and restructuring charges resulting in a lower expected tax benefit in certain foreign jurisdictions. This, coupled with non deductible goodwill impairments, resulted in an effective tax benefit rate lower than the statutory rate.  The 2002 effective tax rate was reduced by a net credit of $17 million resulting from the favorable resolution of prior periods tax contingencies, by a reduction in international taxes related to the implementation of the Companys divisional structure, and the elimination of nondeductible goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142.  In both years, the Company has recorded benefits from a foreign sales corporation or extraterritorial income exclusion.  Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles, Net  (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net $ 3 $ (18)  SFAS No. 143  As required by SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, at January 1, 2003, the Company recognized existing asset retirement obligations adjusted for cumulative accretion to the date of adoption, asset retirement costs capitalized as an increase to the carrying amount of the associated long lived asset and accumulated depreciation on those capitalized costs. As a result of adoption of this standard, the Company recognized an after tax credit to earnings of $3 million during the first quarter 2003, primarily related to a reduction in certain environmental liabilities.  If the asset retirement obligation measurement and recognition provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been in effect on January 1, 2002, the aggregate carrying amount of those obligations on that date would have been $27 million. If the amortization of asset retirement cost and accretion of asset retirement obligation provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been in effect during 2002, the impact on Earnings before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in 2002 would have been immaterial.  SFAS No. 142  The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," effective January 1, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 142 prohibit the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets; require that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment; require reporting units to be identified for the purpose of assessing potential future impairments of goodwill; and remove the forty year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite lives.  57   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company completed in the first quarter 2002 the impairment test for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. As a result of this impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain trademarks related to the CASPI segment, as established by appraisal and based on discounted future cash flows, was less than the recorded value. Accordingly, the Company recognized an after tax impairment charge of approximately $18 million in the first quarter of 2002 to reflect lower than previously expected cash flows from certain related products. This charge is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), and Retained Earnings as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Additionally, the Company reclassified $12 million of its intangible assets related to assembled workforce and the related deferred tax liabilities of approximately $5 million to goodwill. During the second quarter 2002, the Company performed the transitional impairment test on its goodwill as required upon adoption of this Statement, and determined that no impairment of goodwill existed as of January 1, 2002. The Company completed its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter 2002 and determined that no impairment existed as of September 30, 2002. The Company plans to continue its annual testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment in the third quarter of each year, unless events warrant more frequent testing.  In 2003, the Company impaired certain goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the CASPI segment as discussed in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the Company completed its annual impairment review of the remaining goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. No further impairment of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets was required due to this review.  SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT  EASTMAN DIVISION  CASPI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003* 2002* Change External Sales $ 1,683 $ 1,601 5 % Volume effect (5) % Price effect 2 % Product mix effect 3 % Exchange rate effect 5 % Interdivisional sales   N/A Operating earnings (loss) (402) 51 N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 462 5 Other operating income (13)   * Sales revenue and operating earnings have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, improved product mix, and slightly higher selling prices that more than offset a decrease in sales volume. Foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact on sales revenue of $84 million primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. A favorable shift in product mix towards higher priced products had a positive impact on sales revenue of $48 million. Additionally, higher selling prices, as a result of increased raw material and energy costs had a positive impact on sales revenues of $34 million. The decline in sales volume, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $82 million, was primarily attributable to forgoing sales of certain low margin products and restructuring and divestiture actions that were taken during the year. 58    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Operating earnings for 2003 declined significantly compared to 2002 primarily due to the asset impairments and restructuring charges and goodwill impairments related to this segment of $462 million. Higher raw material and energy costs and lower sales volume, which were partially offset by higher selling prices, cost reduction measures, and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates contributed to the decrease in operating earnings. Additionally, a gain of approximately $13 million from the sale of the segments colorant product lines contributed to earnings. For more information on the asset impairments and restructuring charges, see the discussion of impairments and restructuring charges above and in Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  PCI Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003* 2002* Change External Sales $ 1,098 $ 1,023 7 % Volume effect (1) % Price effect 7 % Product mix effect  % Exchange rate effect 1 % Interdivisional sales 495 383 29 % Operating earnings (loss) (45) 21 N/A Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 57 (1)  * Sales revenue and operating earnings have been realigned to reflect certain product movements between CASPI and PCI segments effective in the first quarter 2004.  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. The increase in selling prices had a positive impact on sales revenue of $73 million and was primarily attributable to oxo chemical prices that increased in response to higher raw material and energy costs. Foreign currency exchange rates also had a positive impact on sales revenue of $12 million primarily due to the strengthening of the euro. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2003 was primarily due to higher selling prices as a result of higher raw material and energy costs.  The decrease in operating earnings 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to asset impairments and restructuring charge of approximately $57 million. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs were largely offset by higher selling prices and cost reduction measures. For more information on the asset impairments and restructuring charges see the discussion of impairments and restructuring charges above and Note 15 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  59    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   SP Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 559 $ 528 6 % Volume effect 1 % Price effect  % Product mix effect 1 % Exchange rate effect 4 % Interdivisional sales 49 45 9 % Operating earnings 63 34 85 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1  Other operating income 20   2003 Compared With 2002  External sales revenue for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates. These shifts, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro, contributed $20 million of the increased sales revenue. Additionally, slight increases in sales volume and some improvement in product mix contributed to the overall increase in revenues.  Operating earnings for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to a gain of $20 million on the sale of the segments high performance crystalline plastics assets, cost reduction measures, and favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates that were partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs.  VORIDIAN DIVISION  Polymers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 1,756 $ 1,510 16 % Volume effect 2 % Price effect 11 % Product mix effect (1) % Exchange rate effect 4 % Interdivisional sales 68 55 24 % Operating earnings (loss) 62 35 77 % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 2 1  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $162 million. A favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the euro, also had a positive impact on sales revenue of $60 million. Additionally, new industry capacity in North America that began production earlier in 2003 than the Company had anticipated, resulted in a smaller than expected increase in sales revenue from volume.  60   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   Operating earnings for 2003 increased compared to 2002 primarily due to a $14 million insurance settlement recorded as a credit to cost of sales in the earnings statement of 2003. This settlement partially offsets the $39 million in charges to the cost of sales in 2002 for the operational disruptions that occurred in Europe and the United States. Other factors impacting operating earnings included higher selling prices, for both PET polymers and polyethylene, and the positive impact of a favorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily for the euro. The positive shifts in selling prices and foreign currency exchange rates were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs, added PET polymers capacity in North America, which negatively impacted volumes, and asset impairments and restructuring charges of $2 million.  Fibers Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 635 $ 642 (1) % Volume effect 4 % Price effect 1 % Product mix effect (9) % Exchange rate effect 3 % Interdivisional sales 80 72 11 % Operating earnings 125 133 (6) % Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net 1   2003 Compared With 2002  The slight decrease in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, which had a negative impact on sales revenue of $57 million. The unfavorable shift in product mix was primarily due to a decrease in sales of acetate tow in North America partially offset by increased sales of acetate tow in other parts of the world. The shift in product mix was mostly offset by increases in sales volume, primarily for acetyl chemicals, and favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily for the euro, of $28 million and $16 million, respectively.  The decline in operating earnings for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, primarily due to a decline of acetate tow demand in North America that was partially offset by increased acetate tow demand in other parts of the world.  DEVELOPING BUSINESSES DIVISION  Developing Businesses Segment (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 Change External Sales $ 69 $ 16 &gt;100 % Interdivisional sales $ 396 $ 330 20 % Operating loss $ (65) $ (70) 7 %  2003 Compared With 2002  The increase in external sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to the continued implementation of customer contracts by Cendian and the implementation of gasification services contracts. The increase in interdivisional sales revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to geographic expansion of the logistics services provided by Cendian to Eastman Division and Voridian Division. 61    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Operating results for the DB segment improved in 2003 compared to 2002, primarily due to improved operating performance at Cendian that was partially offset by higher costs associated with other growth initiatives.  SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION 2003 COMPARED WITH 2002  Sales Revenue (excluding interdivisional sales)    (Dollars in millions)   2003   2002   Change   Volume Effect   Price Effect  Product Mix Effect Exchange Rate Effect United States and Canada $  3,302 $  3,040  9 %  1 %  7 %  1 %   % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,368 1,170 17 % (1) %  % 2 % 16 % Asia Pacific 643 636 1 % (5) % 3 % 2 % 1 % Latin America 487 474 3 % (7) % 11 %  % (1) % $ 5,800 $ 5,320  The increase in sales revenue in the United States and Canada for 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to higher selling prices, particularly for the Polymers and PCI segment, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $206 million. The higher selling prices mostly related to sales of intermediates chemicals, PET polymers, and polyethylene, and were primarily in response to increases in raw material and energy costs.  2003 sales revenue in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa increased compared to 2002 due to favorable shifts in foreign currency exchange rates which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $191 million, primarily due to the strengthening of the euro.  2003 sales revenue in the Asia Pacific region increased slightly compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in product mix that was offset by lower sales volume. Higher selling prices, particularly for intermediates products and PET polymers, and a favorable shift in product mix contributed $22 million and $13 million, respectively, to sales revenue. Lower sales volume, particularly for the PCI and Fibers segments, had a negative impact on sales revenue of $33 million.  2003 sales revenue in Latin America increased slightly compared to 2002 primarily due to higher selling prices, primarily related to PET polymers, which had a positive impact on sales revenue of $52 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in sales volume, primarily attributable to lower sales of PET polymers and PCI segment intermediates chemicals, in the amount of approximately $34 million.  LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION  Cash Flows  (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Net cash provided by (used in):   Operating activities $ 494 $ 244 $ 801 Investing activities (148) (160) (467) Financing activities (579) 397 (323) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (233) $ 481 $ 11     Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 325 $ 558 $ 77  62   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Cash provided by operating activities increased $250 million in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily as a result of changes in employee benefits and incentive pay liabilities as cash funding for U.S. defined benefit pension plans decreased $235 million. Increased net earnings in 2004 were due to higher gross margins and lower asset impairment charges, which were partially offset by changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable.  Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 decreased $557 million compared to 2002 primarily as a result of changes in employee benefits and incentive pay liabilities which had a year over year impact of $295 million on cash flows from operations. This impact largely reflected the change in the Companys contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans which were $238 million in 2003 versus $3 million in 2002. In addition, changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable, reduced year over year cash provided from operations by $123 million. The remaining decrease related to changes in other items.  Cash used in investing activities in 2004 decreased $12 million compared to 2003. In 2004, the Company sold certain businesses and product lines in its CASPI segment as well as Ariel, resulting in total net proceeds of $127 million. In 2003, the Company sold its high performance crystalline plastics assets and its colorant product lines and related assets for $70 million. The Company used an additional $18 million for additions to properties and equipment in 2004 as compared to 2003. In 2003, the Company received a return of a deposit of approximately $15 million.  Cash used in investing activities in 2003 decreased $307 million compared to 2002. In addition to the $70 million in proceeds from sales of assets in 2003 described above, additions to properties and equipment decreased $197 million in 2003. This decrease is primarily due to the 2002 purchase of $161 million of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. Cash used in investing activities in 2003 and 2002 also reflects other small acquisitions.  Cash used in financing activities in 2004 totaled $579 million and reflects the January 2004 repayment of $500 million of 6 3/8% notes and a decrease in commercial paper and credit facility borrowings of $50 million, offset by cash from stock option exercises of $77 million. Cash provided by financing activities in 2003 totaled $397 million primarily due to proceeds from long term borrowings of $495 million and an increase in commercial paper borrowings of $39 million. Cash used in financing activities in 2002 reflected a significant decrease in commercial paper and short term borrowings attributable to the use of proceeds from long term debt issued during 2002 and the use of cash generated from operations to repay indebtedness. The payment of dividends is also reflected in all periods.  The significant increase in cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2003 compared to 2002 is due to the issuance of two long term notes in 2003 in anticipation of the maturity of $500 million of 6 3/8% notes due January 2004. As described above, the debt was paid in January 2004.  In 2005, priorities for use of available cash will be to pay the dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings and fund targeted growth initiatives. On January 27, 2005, the Company announced that it has entered into an agreement with Danisco A/S under which Danisco will acquire all of Eastmans equity interest in Genencor for $419 million in cash as part of Daniscos acquisition of all the outstanding common stock of Genencor. Closing of this sale, which is subject to satisfaction of certain customary conditions, is targeted for first quarter 2005 and is expected to be completed by May 31, 2005.  Liquidity  Eastman has access to a $700 million revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") expiring in April 2009. Any borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility requires facility fees on the total commitment that vary based on Eastmans credit rating. The rate for such fees was 0.15% as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The Credit Facility contains a number of covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Eastman was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods presented.  Eastman typically utilizes commercial paper to meet its liquidity needs. The Credit Facility provides liquidity support for commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes. Accordingly, outstanding commercial  63   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   paper borrowings reduce borrowings available under the Credit Facility. Because the Credit Facility expires in April 2009, the Company has the ability to refinance commercial paper borrowings on a long term basis. Therefore, any commercial paper borrowings supported by the Credit Facility are classified as long term borrowings. At December 31, 2004, the Companys commercial paper and revolving credit facility borrowings totaled $146 million at an effective interest rate of 2.98%. At December 31, 2003, the Companys commercial paper borrowings were $196 million at an effective interest rate of 1.85%.  The Company has effective shelf registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue a combined $1.1 billion of debt or equity securities.  On January 15, 2004, the Company retired $500 million of debt bearing interest at 6 3/8% per annum. These notes were reflected in borrowings due within one year in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2003. This debt was retired with a combination of cash generated from business activities, new long term borrowings and available short term borrowing capacity.  The Company contributed $3 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2004. The Company anticipates that additional funding of between $40 and $60 million may be required in 2005.  Cash flows from operations and the sources of capital described above are expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow requirements including those requirements related to the normal seasonal increase in working capital expected in the first half of the year. However, the Companys cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw materials availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastmans products, capacity utilization, and other factors described under "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors" below. Furthermore, the Company believes maintaining a financial profile consistent with an investment grade company is important to its long term strategic and financial flexibility.  Capital Expenditures  Capital expenditures were $248 million, $230 million, and $427 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2002 include $161 million related to the purchase of certain machinery and equipment previously utilized under an operating lease. The Company expects that 2005 capital spending will be approximately $340 million to $360 million which will exceed estimated 2005 depreciation and amortization of $310 million. In 2005, the Company will pursue projects that include the new PET facility in South Carolina, utilizing IntegRex technology, as well as other growth initiatives  Other Commitments  At December 31, 2004, the Companys obligations related to notes and debentures totaled approximately $1.9 billion to be paid over a period of 25 years. Other borrowings, related primarily to credit facility borrowings, totaled approximately $146 million.  The Company had various purchase obligations at December 31, 2004 totaling approximately $1.9 billion over a period of approximately 15 years for materials, supplies and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business. The Company also had various lease commitments for property and equipment under cancelable, noncancelable, and month to month operating leases totaling approximately $183 million over a period of several years. Of the total lease commitments, approximately 20% relate to machinery and equipment, including computer and communications equipment and production equipment; approximately 55% relate to real property, including office space, storage facilities and land; and approximately 25% relate to railcars.  If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets. Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2004 totaled $90 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars, company aircraft, and other equipment. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.  64   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  In addition, the Company had other liabilities at December 31, 2004 totaling approximately $1.3 billion related to pension, retiree medical, and other postemployment obligations.  The obligations described above are summarized in the following table:  (Dollars in millions) Payments Due For    Period   Notes and Debentures Commercial Paper and Other Borrowings   Purchase Obligations   Operating Leases Other Liabilities (a)    Total 2005 $ 1 $  $ 279 $ 43 $ 144 $ 467 2006 4  274 34 146 458 2007   271 26 156 453 2008 250  166 15 118 549 2009 12 146 161 13 71 403 2010 and beyond 1,649  776 52 653 3,130 Total $ 1,916 $ 146 $ 1,927 $ 183 $ 1,288 $ 5,460   (a) Amounts represent the current estimated cash payments to be made by the Company for pension and other post employment benefits in the periods indicated. The amount and timing of such payments is dependent upon interest rates, health care trends, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, continuation or modification of the benefit plans, and other factors. Such factors can significantly impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company.  On January 15, 2004, the Company retired $500 million of 6 3/8% notes due in 2004.  The Company also had outstanding guarantees at December 31, 2004. Additional information related to these guarantees is included in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements.  Off Balance Sheet and Other Financing Arrangements  If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in disposing of the related assets. The Company believes, based on current facts and circumstances, that a material payment pursuant to such guarantees in excess of the payments included above is remote. Under these operating leases, the residual value guarantees at December 31, 2004 totaled $90 million and consisted primarily of leases for railcars, company aircraft, and other equipment.  As described in Note 5 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, Eastman has a 50% interest in and serves as the operating partner in Primester, a joint venture which manufactures cellulose acetate at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant. Eastman also owns a 50% interest in Nanjing Yangzi Eastman Chemical Ltd, a company which manufactures certain products for the adhesives market. The Company guarantees up to $125 million and $6 million, respectively, of the principal amount of these joint ventures third party borrowings, but believes, based on current facts and circumstances and the structure of the ventures, that the likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.  As described in Note 10 to the Companys consolidated financial statements, Eastman entered into an agreement in 1999 that allows it to generate cash by reducing its working capital through the sale of undivided interests in certain domestic trade accounts receivable under a planned continuous sale program to a third party. Under this agreement, receivables sold to the third party totaled $200 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Undivided interests in designated receivable pools were sold to the purchaser with recourse limited to the purchased interest in the receivable pools.  The Company did not have any other material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including special purpose entities, for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements with contractually 65    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  narrow or limited purposes. Thus, Eastman is not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risk related to the above or any other such relationships.  The Company has evaluated material relationships including the guarantees related to the third party borrowings of joint ventures described above and has concluded that the entities are not Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) or, in the case of Primester, a joint venture that manufactures cellulose acetate at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant, the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the VIE. As such, in accordance with FIN 46R, the Company is not required to consolidate these entities. In addition, the Company has evaluated long term purchase obligations with two entities that may be VIEs at December 31, 2004. These potential VIEs are joint ventures from which the Company has purchased raw materials and utilities for several years and purchases approximately $40 million of raw materials and utilities on an annual basis. The Company has no equity interest in these entities and has confirmed that one party to each of these joint ventures does consolidate the potential VIE. However, due to competitive and other reasons, the Company has not been able to obtain the necessary financial information to determine whether the entities are VIEs, and if one or both are VIEs, whether or not the Company is the primary beneficiary.  In conjunction with the sale of certain businesses and product lines in the CASPI segment as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company accepted a variable interest in the form of a $50 million note receivable. The Company has evaluated the material relationships with the purchasing entity and concluded the Company is not the primary beneficiary. The Companys maximum exposure to loss is limited to the $50 million book value of the note receivable and unpaid interest, if any.  Guarantees and claims also arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers, and non consolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specified triggering events occur. Non performance under a contract could trigger an obligation of the Company. These potential claims include actions based upon alleged exposures to products, intellectual property and environmental matters, and other indemnifications. The ultimate effect on future financial results is not subject to reasonable estimation because considerable uncertainty exists as to the final outcome of these claims. However, while the ultimate liabilities resulting from such claims may be significant to results of operations in the period recognized, management does not anticipate they will have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position or liquidity.  Treasury Stock Transactions  The Company is currently authorized to repurchase up to $400 million of its common stock. No shares of Eastman common stock were repurchased by the Company during 2004, 2003 and 2002. A total of 2,746,869 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $112 million, or an average price of approximately $41 per share, have been repurchased under the authorization. Repurchased shares may be used to meet common stock requirements for compensation and benefit plans and other corporate purposes. In the first quarter 2002, the Company issued 126,614 previously repurchased shares as the annual Company contribution to the Eastman Investment and Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  Dividends  The Company declared cash dividends of $0.44 per share in the fourth quarters 2004, 2003 and 2002 and a total of $1.76 per share in 2004, 2003 and 2002.  ENVIRONMENTAL  Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous wastes of which the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal of which are regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs for environmental remediation and closure and postclosure under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Adequate 66    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  reserves for environmental contingencies have been established in accordance with Eastmans policies as described in Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Companys preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, it does not believe its liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  The Company accrues environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company accrues the minimum amount. This undiscounted accrued amount reflects the Companys assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for remediation costs range from the minimum or best estimate of $25 million to the maximum of $45 million at December 31, 2004.  In addition to remediation activities, the Company establishes reserves for closure/postclosure costs associated with the environmental assets it maintains. Environmental assets include but are not limited to landfills, water treatment facilities, and ash ponds. When these types of assets are constructed, a reserve is established for the anticipated future environmental costs associated with the closure of the site asset based on its expected life. These future expenses are charged into earnings over the estimated useful life of the assets. Reserves related to environmental assets accounted for approximately 55% of the total environmental reserve at December 31, 2004. Currently, the Companys environmental assets are expected to be no longer useable at various different times over the next 50 years. If the Company were to invest in numerous new environmental assets, or, these assets were to require closure a significant number of years before the Company anticipated they would, the amortization on them would increase, and could have a material negative impact on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Company views the likelihood of this occurrence to be remote, and does not anticipate, based on its past experience with this type of planned remediation, that an additional accrual related to environmental assets will be necessary.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had recognized environmental contingencies of approximately $56 million and $61 million, respectively, representing the minimum or best estimate for remediation costs and, for closure/postclosure costs, the amount accrued to date over the facilities estimated useful lives.  The Companys estimated cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were approximately $184 million, $187 million, and $195 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. Cash expenditures estimated for 2005 are expected to remain at approximately $190 million. These amounts pertain primarily to operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also include expenditures for construction and development. The Company does not expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Companys planned level of capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.  INFLATION  In recent years, inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastmans costs. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market price, although derivative financial instruments may have been utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market price fluctuations.  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  In November, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Chapter 4. The standard adopts the International Accounting Standards Boards view related to inventories that abnormal amounts of idle capacity and spoilage costs should be excluded from the cost of inventory and expensed when incurred. Additionally, the Statement clarifies the meaning of the term normal capacity. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal  67   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the effect SFAS No. 151 will have on its consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results from operations.  In December, 2004 the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 29. SFAS No. 153 is based on the principle that nonmonetary asset exchanges should be recorded and measured at the fair value of the assets exchanged, with certain exceptions. This Statement requires exchanges of productive assets to be accounted for at fair value, rather than at carryover basis, unless neither the asset received nor the asset surrendered has a fair value that is determinable within reasonable limits or the transactions lack commercial substance as defined by the Statement. In addition, the Board decided to retain the guidance for assessing whether the fair value of a nonmonetary asset is determinable within reasonable limits. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the effect SFAS No. 153 will have on its consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results from operations.  In December, 2004 the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and other forms of stock based compensation. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for the Company as of the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005  SFAS No. 123R requires public companies to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the award of equity instruments based upon a grant date fair value using values obtained from public markets where such instruments are traded, or if not available, a mathematical pricing model. The cost is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. Effective with implementation, the Company will reflect this cost in its financial statements as a component of net income and earnings per share. Prior to implementation, public companies had the choice of early adoption of the standard or to continue reporting under the current requirements of APB Opinion No. 25 and to provide pro forma disclosure of this cost within the category of Significant Accounting Policies as a footnote to the financial statements. The Company is currently reporting under APB No. 25 until implementation in third quarter 2005.  Due to the concern for comparability of financial statements of prior years, SFAS No. 123R provides for two methods of implementation: (1) Modified Prospective Application and (2) Modified Retrospective Application. Modified Prospective Application provides for adoption of fair value cost recognition to all new, modified, repurchased, or cancelled awards after the effective date of the standard without retrospective application to prior interim and annual fiscal periods. The Modified Retrospective Application method provides for retrospective application to either the current fiscal year interim periods only or all prior years for which comparative financial statements are provided. While the Company has not yet decided which method of implementation will be selected, adequate disclosure of all comparative fiscal periods covered by financial statements will comply with requirements of the SFAS 123R.  OUTLOOK  For 2005, the Company expects:  that historically high raw material and energy costs will continue throughout much of 2005, and that the Company will continue to implement price increases intended to offset these higher costs;  strong volumes will continue in 2005 due to a strengthening economy, continued substitution of Eastman products for other materials, and new applications for existing products;  earnings improvement through discipline in pricing practices, a continued focus on profitable businesses and continued cost control initiatives;  that pension and other postemployment benefit expenses in 2005 will be similar to 2004 levels;  to contribute between $40 and $60 million to the Companys U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2005;  net interest expense to decrease compared to 2004 as a result of anticipated lower average borrowings;  68   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  that SG&A and R&D costs within the DB segment combined with other R&D costs will be approximately 3 percent of revenue;  the effective tax rate to be approximately 30 percent, and certain tax benefits from the extraterritorial income exclusion to continue through 2005 or be offset;  to continue to evaluate its portfolio, which could lead to further restructuring, divestiture, or consolidations of product lines as it continues to focus on profitability, primarily in Eastman Division;  capital expenditures to increase to between $340 and $360 million and exceed estimated depreciation and amortization of $310 million; in 2005, the Company will pursue projects that include the new PET facility in South Carolina, utilizing IntegRex technology, as well as other targeted growth initiatives;  to complete the previously announced sale of Eastmans equity interest in Genencor to Danisco A/S targeted for first quarter 2005 with expected completion no later than May 31, 2005; and  that priorities for use of available cash will be to pay the quarterly cash dividend, reduce outstanding borrowings, and fund targeted growth initiatives.  See Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors below.  FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS  The expectations under "Outlook" and certain other statements in this Annual Report may be forward looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements and other written and oral forward looking statements made by the Company from time to time may relate to, among other things, such matters as planned and expected capacity increases and utilization; anticipated capital spending; expected depreciation and amortization; environmental matters; legal proceedings; exposure to, and effects of hedging of, raw material and energy costs and foreign currencies; global and regional economic, political, and business conditions; competition; growth opportunities; supply and demand, volume, price, cost, margin, and sales; earnings, cash flow, dividends and other expected financial conditions; expectations, strategies, and plans for individual assets and products, businesses, segments and divisions as well as for the whole of Eastman Chemical Company; cash requirements and uses of available cash; financing plans; pension expenses and funding; credit ratings; anticipated restructuring, divestiture, and consolidation activities; cost reduction and control efforts and targets; integration of acquired businesses; development, production, commercialization and acceptance of new products, services and technologies and related costs; asset, business and product portfolio changes; and expected tax rates and net interest costs.  These plans and expectations are based upon certain underlying assumptions, including those mentioned with the specific statements. Such assumptions are in turn based upon internal estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management plans and strategies, economic conditions and other factors. These plans and expectations and the assumptions underlying them are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the forward looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions and expectations proves to be inaccurate or is unrealized. In addition to the factors described in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward looking statements:  The Company has deferred tax assets related to capital and operating losses. The Company establishes valuation allowances to reduce these deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Companys ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends on projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning strategies. Realization of these assets is expected to occur over an extended period of time. As a result, changes in tax laws, assumptions with respect to future taxable income and tax planning strategies could result in adjustments to these assets.  69   MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The Company is endeavoring to exploit growth opportunities in certain core businesses by developing new products, expanding into new markets, and tailoring product offerings to customer needs. There can be no assurance that such efforts will result in financially successful commercialization of such products or acceptance by existing or new customers or new markets. The Company has made, and intends to continue making, strategic investments and enter into strategic alliances in technology, services businesses, and other ventures in order to build, diversify, and strengthen certain Eastman capabilities and to maintain high utilization of manufacturing assets. There can be no assurance that such investments will achieve their underlying strategic business objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Companys results of operations.  The Company owns assets in the form of equity in other companies, including joint ventures, technology investments and Genencor. Such investments are minority investments in companies which are not managed or controlled by the Company and are subject to all of the risks associated with changes in value of such investments including the market valuation of those companies whose shares are publicly traded. In addition, there can be no assurance that such investments will achieve the intended underlying strategic business objectives.   The Company has entered into an agreement with Danisco A/S under which Danisco will acquire all of Eastmans equity interest in Genencor as part of Daniscos acquisition of all the outstanding common stock of Genencor. In addition to being subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions, closing of the sale is also subject to the risk and uncertainties typically associated with such a public change in control transaction. There can be no assurance that the sale will close in a timely manner or at all. If the sale is not completed, available cash, and the Companys priority for use thereof, would be adversely impacted.  The Company has undertaken and will continue to undertake productivity and cost reduction initiatives and organizational restructurings to improve performance and generate cost savings. There can be no assurance that these will be completed as planned or beneficial or that estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized.  In addition to productivity and cost reduction initiatives, the Company is striving to improve margins on its products through price increases where warranted and accepted by the market; however, the Companys earnings could be negatively impacted should such increases be unrealized, not be sufficient to cover increased raw material and energy costs, or have a negative impact on demand and volume. There can be no assurances that price increases will be realized or will be realized within the Companys anticipated timeframe.  The Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials for its operations and utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short term market fluctuations in raw material costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which the Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials.  While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are impacted by plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, and war or other outbreak of hostilities. Eastmans operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors.  70    MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The Companys competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors in addition to those that the Company can impact. For example, supply and demand for certain of the Companys products is driven by end use markets and worldwide capacities which, in turn, impact demand for and pricing of the Companys products.  The Company has an extensive customer base; however, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations until such business is replaced and no assurances can be made that the Company would be able to regain or replace any lost customers. In addition, the Companys competitive position may be adversely impacted by low cost competitors in certain regions and customers developing internal or alternative sources of supply.  Limitation of the Companys available manufacturing capacity due to significant disruption in its manufacturing operations could have a material adverse affect on sales revenue, expenses and results of operations and financial condition.  The Companys facilities and businesses are subject to complex health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations currently and in the future. The Companys accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. The amount accrued reflects the Companys assumptions about remedial requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.  The Company accesses the capital and credit markets on a regular basis. Access to these markets and the cost of capital is dependent in part upon the Companys credit rating received from independent credit rating agencies. An adverse change in the Companys credit rating could affect the renewal of existing credit facilities or the Companys ability to obtain access to new credit facilities or other debt financing in the future, could adversely affect the terms under which the Company can borrow, and could increase the cost of new borrowings, other debt, or capital.  The Companys operations from time to time are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, asbestos, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are handled and defended in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes amounts reserved are adequate for such pending matters; however, results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company.  The foregoing list of important factors does not include all such factors nor necessarily present them in order of importance. This disclosure, including that under "Outlook" and "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors," and other forward looking statements and related disclosures made by the Company in this Annual Report and elsewhere from time to time, represents managements best judgment as of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in Company press releases) on related subjects.  71    ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT  MARKET RISK  The Company is exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal course of its business due to its use of certain financial instruments as well as transacting in various foreign currencies and funding foreign operations. To mitigate the Companys exposure to these market risks, Eastman has established policies, procedures, and internal processes governing its management of financial market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage its exposure to such risks.  The Company determines its market risk utilizing sensitivity analysis, which measures the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and or commodity prices.  The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing activities, which include long term borrowings used to maintain liquidity and to fund its business operations and capital requirements. Currently, these borrowings are predominately U.S. dollar denominated. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt may vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. For 2004 and 2003, the market risks associated with the fair value of interest rate sensitive instruments, assuming an instantaneous parallel relative shift in interest rates of 10% were approximately $91 million and $119 million, respectively, and an additional $10 million for each one percentage point change in interest rates thereafter. This exposure is primarily related to long term debt with fixed interest rates.  The Companys operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company continually evaluates its foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and the locations in which the Company conducts business. In order to mitigate the effect of foreign currency risk, the Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and currency options to hedge probable anticipated but not yet committed export sales and purchase transactions expected within no more than two years and denominated in foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of related exposures. It is the Companys policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency transactions for speculative purposes. For 2004, the market risks associated with forward exchange contracts utilizing a modified Black Scholes option pricing model and a 10% adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign currency hedged by the Company were approximately $15 million and an additional $1.4 million for each additional one percentage point adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 2003, the Company had no outstanding forward exchange contracts or currency options. Further adverse movements in foreign currencies would create losses in fair value; however, such losses would not be linear to that disclosed above. This exposure, which is primarily related to foreign currency options purchased by the Company to manage fluctuations in foreign currencies, is limited to the dollar value of option premiums payable by the Company for the related financial instruments. Furthermore, since the Company utilizes currency sensitive derivative instruments for hedging anticipated foreign currency transactions, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally offset by increases in the value of the underlying anticipated transactions.  The Company is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for certain of its major raw materials. To mitigate short term fluctuations in market prices for certain commodities, principally propane and natural gas, the Company enters into forwards and options contracts. For 2004 and 2003, the market risks associated with feedstock options and natural gas swaps assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in the underlying commodity price of 10% were $1 million and $4 million, respectively, and an additional $0.1 million and $0.3 million for each one percentage point move in closing prices thereafter.  72    
 
