FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20020515115136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in registrant's certifying accountant	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in registrant's certifying accountant
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM 4. CHANGES IN REGISTRANT'S CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANT.
     Pursuant to a recommendation by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") and approval by the Board of Directors, effective May 15, 2002, the Company dismissed Arthur Andersen LLP as the Company's independent public accountants and has engaged Ernst & Young to serve as the Company's independent public accountants for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002.
     Arthur Andersen's reports on Coventry's consolidated financial statements for each of the past two years ended December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were they qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.
     During the two most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, and through the date of this Form 8-K, there were no disagreements with Arthur Andersen on any matter of accounting principle or practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure which, if not resolved to Arthur Andersen's satisfaction, would have caused them to make reference to the subject matter in connection with their report on Coventry's consolidated financial statements for such years; and there were no reportable events as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
     Coventry provided Arthur Andersen with a copy of the foregoing disclosures. Attached as Exhibit 16 is a copy of Arthur Andersen's letter, dated May 15, 2002, stating its agreement with such statements.
     During the two most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, and through the date of this Form 8-K, Coventry did not consult Ernst & Young with respect to the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on Coventry's consolidated financial statements, or any other matters or reportable events as set forth in Items 304(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     c)  Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 16
May 15, 2002
Office of the Chief Accountant Securities and Exchange Commission 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20549
Dear Sir/Madam:
We have read the five paragraphs of Item 4 included in the Form 8-K of Coventry Health Care, Inc. to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are in agreement with the statements contained therein.
Very truly yours,
Cc:   Mr. Dale Wolf, Coventry Health Care, Inc.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
6705 Rockledge Drive, Suite 900 Bethesda, MD 20817-1850 (301) 581-0600
     FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Bethesda, Maryland (May 15, 2002)  Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Ernst & Young LLP as the company's independent auditors. Ernst & Young will replace Arthur Andersen LLP as the independent auditors for the company effective with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2002.
     The decision to replace Arthur Andersen was made after careful evaluation by the company's management, Audit Committee, and Board of Directors. The decision to replace Arthur Andersen was not the result of any disagreement between the company and Arthur Andersen on any accounting principles, financial statement presentations, or any other accounting matters.
"We are pleased to be working with Ernst & Young as our new independent auditors," said Allen F. Wise, President and Chief Executive Officer of Coventry. "I would also like to thank Arthur Andersen for their professionalism and the high quality of work performed during their tenure with Coventry."
Coventry Health Care is a managed health care company based in Bethesda, Maryland operating health plans and insurance companies under the names Coventry Health Care, Coventry Health and Life, Carelink Health Plans, Group Health Plan, HealthAmerica, HealthAssurance, HealthCare USA, Southern Health and WellPath. The Company provides a full range of managed care products and services including HMO, PPO, POS, Medicare+Choice and Medicaid to 1.8 million members in a broad cross section of employer and government-funded groups in 12 markets throughout the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic and Southeast United States. More information is available on the Internet at http://www.cvty.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to future events or future financial performance and may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


