FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20040128163053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     As described in the Company's December 31, 2002 Form 10-K, on February 1, 2002 the Company completed a transaction to sell $175.0 million original 8.125% senior notes.
     On January 27, 2004 Standard & Poor's Ratings Service raised its counterparty credit rating on Coventry Health Care Inc. (NYSE:CVH) to BBB' from BB+', which puts the rating into the investment grade level. Standard & Poor's said that the outlook on Coventry is stable. The release, in its entirety, can be found as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     c)      Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1 Standard & Poor's Press Release dated January 27, 2004
Tue January 27, 2004 11:31 AM ET (The following statement was released by the rating agency)
S&P raises Coventry Health Care's rating to BBB'
NEW YORK, Jan 27  Standard & Poor's Ratings Services said today that it raised its counterparty credit rating on Coventry Health Care Inc. (NYSE:CVH) to BBB' from BB+', which puts the rating into the investment-grade level. Standard & Poor's also said that the outlook on Coventry is stable.
"This rating action is based on the company's improved capital adequacy, stronger earnings profile, and enhanced financial flexibility/liquidity," said Standard & Poor's credit analyst Joseph Marinucci. "However, Standard & Poor's remains cautious about the company's acquisitionbased growth strategy."
Coventry's enrollment, excluding network rental and acquisitions, is expected to increase moderately to 2.5 million2.6 million members for 2004. Standard & Poor's expects Coventry's operating performance to remain extremely strong in 2004 but could be pressured somewhat by aggressive competitor pricing in certain core markets. Despite Standard & Poor's expectation of extremely strong profitability in 2004, Coventry's consolidated capital adequacy is expected to decrease moderately because of higher planned dividend distribution to the holding company. Accordingly, consolidated statutory surplus is expected to increase by about $40 million. If Coventry meets Standard & Poor's earnings expectations for 2004, debt leverage and interest coverage metrics would be considered very conservative for the rating level.
Through Sept. 30, 2003, Coventry's consolidated pretax income was $282.4 million, which significantly exceeded Standard & Poor's expectation and was also well in excess of that achieved for the same prioryear period. This improvement was attributed mainly to a combination of sustained rate increases that exceeded underlying medical cost trends and ongoing administrative costcontainment initiatives. Furthermore, Standard & Poor's believes that Coventry has enhanced it earnings profile by realizing stronger returns on revenue and achieving profitable performance in almost all of its geographic markets. Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of Ratings Direct, Standard & Poor's Webbased credit analysis system, at www.ratingsdirect.com. All ratings affected by this rating action can be found on Standard & Poor's public Web site at www.standardandpoors.com; under Credit Ratings in the left navigation bar, select Credit Ratings Actions.


