FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20050225133418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") hereby amends this Current Report on Form 8-K, which was initially filed on January 28, 2005, to include the financial statements required by 9.01 hereof. These financial statements are filed as Exhibits 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Except for the filing of the financial statements required by Item 9.01 hereof, this Current Report on Form 8-K is not being amended or updated in any manner.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On January 28, 2005, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") closed the private placement of $250 million aggregate principal amount of its 5 7/8% senior notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes") and $250 million aggregate principal amount of its 6 1/8% senior notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes" and, together with the 2012 Notes, collectively, the "Notes"), which was previously announced on January 14, 2005. The Notes were issued pursuant to two separate indentures, each dated as of January 28, 2005 (collectively, the "Indentures"), between the Company and Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The description of the material terms of the Indentures governing the Notes included in Item 2.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this item.
     In addition to the Indentures, the Company entered into two separate registration rights agreements for the Notes, each dated as of January 28, 2005 (collectively, the "Registration Rights Agreements"), by and among the Company and Lehman Brothers Inc., CIBC World Markets Corp., ABN AMRO Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Wachovia Securities, BNP Paribas, BNY Capital Markets, Inc. and Piper Jaffray & Co. (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"). Under the Registration Rights Agreements, the Company has agreed to file within 120 days and use its best efforts to cause to become effective a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for notes registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), having substantially identical terms as the Notes (except that additional interest provisions and transfer restrictions pertaining to the Notes will be deleted). If the Company fails to cause the registration statement relating to the exchange offer to become effective within the time period specified in the Registration Rights Agreements, the Company will be required to pay additional interest on the Notes until the registration statement is declared effective.
     In addition, the Company entered into a $450 million Credit Agreement dated as of January 28, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement") with the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto (the "Lenders"), Bank of America, N.A., Lasalle Bank National Association and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as documentation agents (in such capacity, the "Documentation Agents"), Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as syndication agent (in such capacity, the "Syndication Agent"), and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year term loan of $300 million and a five-year revolving credit facility of $150 million. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are general unsecured obligations of the Company. The description of the material terms of the Credit Agreement included in Item 2.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this item.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On January 28, 2005, the Company completed its acquisition of First Health Group Corp. ("First Health"), a Delaware corporation. First Health merged with and into Coventry Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 13, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement"), among the Company, Merger Sub and First Health (the "Merger"). First Health is a full-service national health benefits service company headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois, that
Table of Contents
specializes in providing large payors with integrated managed care solutions. First Health is a national managed care company serving the group health, workers' compensation and state agency markets. As of September 30, 2004, First Health had total assets of $1.0 billion, total liabilities of $543.8 million and total equity of $478.3 million. Each outstanding share of First Health common stock was converted into a right to receive $9.375 cash and 0.1791 shares of the Company's common stock. As a result of the Merger, the Company is issuing approximately 16.5 million shares of common stock.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     As discussed above, on January 28, 2005, the Company completed an offering of the Notes. The Notes were offered to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S. The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future senior debt, including its existing 8.125% senior notes due 2012 and its new credit facilities. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state laws.
     The 2012 Notes will mature on January 15, 2012 and the 2015 Notes will mature on January 15, 2015. Interest will accrue on the Notes at a rate of 5 7/8% per annum on the 2012 Notes and 6 1/8% per annum on the 2015 Notes and will be payable semi-annually in arrears on each January 15 and July 15, commencing on July 15, 2005. The Company will pay interest to those persons who were holders of record on January 1 or July 1 immediately preceding each interest payment date. Interest will accrue on the Notes from the date of original issuance or, if interest has already been paid, from the date it was most recently paid. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
     The Company is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes. The Company is required to offer to purchase the Notes at 101% of their aggregate principal amount, plus accrued interest, if it experiences specific kinds of changes in control.
     The Indentures under which the Notes have been issued, among other things, restrict the Company's ability and the ability of the Company's restricted subsidiaries to: make investments; incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock; create liens; incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and merge or consolidate with other entities. From and after the date on which the Notes receive investment grade ratings from two designated rating agencies, certain covenants related to the Notes will terminate and a covenant relating to sale and leaseback transactions will become effective.
     If an event of default with respect to a series of Notes shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee or the registered holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of such series of Notes then outstanding may declare to be immediately due and payable the principal amount of
Table of Contents
all the Notes of such series then outstanding, plus accrued but unpaid interest to the date of acceleration.
     As discussed above, on January 28, 2005, the Company also entered into new senior credit facilities providing for a term loan in the principal amount of $300 million and a revolving credit facility in the maximum principal amount of $150 million.
     The term loan facility has a maturity of five years and requires regularly scheduled quarterly payments of principal and interest. Unless terminated earlier, the revolving credit facility will mature five years after closing and is payable in full upon its maturity on the termination date.
     Loans under the new senior credit facilities bear interest at a margin or spread in excess of either (1) the one-, two-, three- or six-month rate for the Eurodollar deposits (the "Eurodollar Rate") or (2) the greater of the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or the prime rate of the Administrative Agent ("ABR"), as selected by the Company. The margin or spread depends on the debt ratings assigned to the new credit facilities and the Company's consolidated leverage ratio and varies from 0.750% to 2.000% for Eurodollar Rate loans and from 0.000% to 1.000% for ABR loans. Commitment fees will accrue and be payable quarterly in arrears at an initial rate of 0.375% per annum, and subsequently at a rate ranging from 0.250% to 0.500% depending on the debt ratings assigned to the new credit facilities and the Company's consolidated leverage ratio, multiplied by the daily average undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility.
     The revolving credit facility provides for a $40 million subfacility for letters of credit. Letter of credit fees are payable in respect of outstanding letters of credit at a rate per annum equal to the applicable margin for Eurodollar Rate loans. A fronting fee of 0.125% per annum on the undrawn amount is payable to the issuer of each letter of credit.
     The Credit Agreement contains covenants, including, among other things, covenants that restrict the Company's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to: incur additional indebtedness; incur guarantee obligations; create or permit liens on assets, engage in mergers or consolidations; dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions, purchase or redeem the Company's equity securities or those of its subsidiaries and make other restricted payments; make loans, advances or other investments (including acquisitions); engage in certain transactions with affiliates; agree with others to limit their ability to grant liens on assets; agree with others to limit the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to pay dividends or other restricted payments or to make loans or transfer assets to the Company or another of its subsidiaries. The new senior credit facilities also require compliance with specified financial ratios and tests, including a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum net worth requirement.
     If an event of default under the new senior credit facilities shall occur and be continuing, the commitments under the new senior credit facilities may be terminated and the principal amount outstanding under the new senior credit facilities, together with all accrued unpaid interest and other amounts owing under the Credit Agreement and related loan documents, may be declared immediately due and payable.
     The Company used the net proceeds of the offering and sale of the Notes, together with borrowings under the new senior credit facilities, to acquire First Health, repay First Health's
Table of Contents
outstanding bank debt, and pay transaction fees and expenses in connection with the First Health acquisition.
     The description set forth above in Item 1.01 and this Item 2.03 is qualified by the Indentures, the Registration Rights Agreements and the Credit Agreement, which are filed as exhibits herewith.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The Company issued a press release today announcing the completion of the Merger and related financing transactions described in Items 1.01, 2.01 and 2.03 above. The press release is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
     The required financial statements of First Health as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference. The required financial statements of First Health as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
     (b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     The required pro forma financial information as of September 30, 2004 and for the twelve and nine months ended December 31, 2003 and September 30, 2004, respectively, is attached as Exhibit 99.4 and is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
*Denotes documents previously filed.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
*Denotes documents previously filed.

Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We consent to the use in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") dated February 25, 2005 of our report dated March 8, 2004 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company's change in its method of accounting for goodwill and intangible assets in 2002), related to the consolidated financial statements of First Health Group Corp. as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, and to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-71806, 33-57014, 33-81356, 33-81358, 33-82562, 33-87114, 33-90268, 33-95084, 33-97246, 333-39581, 333-36735, 333-47239, 333-75615, 333-107064, 333-117966 of Coventry on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-75675 and 333-74280 of Coventry on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933. /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chicago, IL February 24, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.2 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of First Health Group Corp. Downers Grove, Illinois We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of First Health Group Corp. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive income, of cash flows and of stockholders' equity, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of First Health Group Corp. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill and intangible assets to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chicago, Illinois March 8, 2004
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: The Company: First Health Group Corp. ("the Company") is a full-service national health benefits services company. The Company specializes in providing large payors with integrated managed care solutions. The Company is a unique national managed care company serving the group health, workers' compensation and state agency markets. Principles of consolidation: The financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Cash and cash equivalents and investments: Cash and cash equivalents are defined as all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at date of purchase. Investments with maturities between three months and 12 months, equity investments and other investments needed for current cash requirements are classified as short-term investments. All remaining investments are classified as long-term. Investments, which are classified as available-for-sale securities, are reported at fair value. The fair value of marketable securities is estimated based on quoted market prices, when available. If a quoted price is not available, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices for similar financial instruments. The difference between amortized cost and fair value is recorded as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable deferred taxes. Realized gains and losses from sales of investments are based upon the specific identification method. Property and equipment: Property and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for the maintenance and repair of property and equipment are charged to expense as incurred. Expenditures for major replacement or betterment are capitalized. In accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"), "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," certain internal payroll and payroll-related costs are capitalized during the application development stage of a project and depreciated over the computer software's useful life. The Company capitalized approximately $10.2 million of such internal costs during 2003, $8.1 million of such costs during 2002 and $5.3 million of such costs during 2001 that would have otherwise been expensed. In accordance with SOP 98-1, the Company also capitalizes external consulting costs related to software development. The total of the internal and external costs are considered work-in-progress until the software is put into use. Computer equipment and software includes approximately $21.3 million of work-in-progress as of December 31, 2003 related to internally developed software programs. There were approximately $16.6 million of such work-in-progress amounts as of December 31, 2002. The Company recorded amortization expense related to developed software in the amount of $23.0 million, $21.8 million and $13.5 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the related assets using the straight-line method. These lives range from 5 years to 31.5 years for buildings and improvements, 1.5 years to 5 years for computer equipment and software and 3 years to 5 years for office furniture and equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the term of the lease. Long-lived assets: The carrying amount of all long-lived assets is evaluated periodically to determine if adjustment to the depreciation and amortization period or to the unamortized balance is warranted. Such evaluation is based principally on the expected utilization of the long-lived assets and the projected, undiscounted cash flows of the operations in which the long-lived assets are deployed.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Fair value of financial instruments: The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable are reasonable estimates of their fair value. The fair value of marketable securities and investments is discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. The carrying value of long-term debt is a reasonable estimate of its fair value as amounts are borrowed at current market rates. Revenue recognition: The Company's proprietary, national PPO network, The First Health(R) Network, includes hospitals, physicians and other health care providers that offer services at prenegotiated rates to health care payors. PPO services are provided at varying fee structures to our clients based on specific contractual arrangements. PPO revenues are earned based on either a percentage of savings in medical costs achieved by our clients when their covered participants utilize our national network of health care providers or on a per-employee, per-month basis (capitated basis). Percentage of savings revenue is determined using the difference between charges billed by contracted medical providers and the contracted reimbursement rates for the services billed. Contracted rates are specified in our contracts and are maintained in the Company's claims repricing systems. The Company recognizes revenue, on a contractual basis per client, as a portion of savings achieved (the difference between provider billings and provider reimbursement). Revenue for claims administrative services is recognized based on a contractual per-member, per-month rate using client-provided enrollment data. This rate is based on a number of factors including the number of participants, length of contract, products selected and services purchased. Revenue for fee schedule services is recognized on a per-transaction basis. Revenue for clinical management services is recognized either on a capitated basis or on a time and material basis. In a limited number of cases, contracts include performance guarantees. Performance guarantees are client specific and are of two basic types: administrative guarantees and financial guarantees. Administrative guarantees relate to an obligation to meet certain claims administration metrics agreed to by the client and First Health such as telephonic response time for member calls and claim payment turnaround. If these contractual metrics are not met, there are certain penalties that apply. Penalties paid by the Company for failure to meet certain performance guarantees were less than $50,000 in each of the years between 2001 and 2003. Financial guarantees take various forms including, among others, achieving an annual aggregate savings threshold, achieving a targeted level of savings per-member, per-month or achieving overall network penetration in defined demographic markets. Only 25 client contracts include performance guarantees. Negative revenue adjustments related to performance guarantees are recorded in the quarter they are known. Positive revenue adjustments related to performance guarantees are recorded in the quarter they are billed to the client. Performance guarantees are structured and measured annually. Guarantees in subsequent years can be recalculated to protect the Company from unforeseen changes in the various parameters used in calculating performance guarantees. Other adjustments to PPO revenues are recorded related to member eligibility and other client resubmission of repricing information. Adjustments to revenue are recorded on a client-specific and aggregated basis based on empirical adjustment data. In addition, an allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded based on an evaluation of client-specific financial risks and aging of receivables. Total accounts receivable reserves were $57.6 million, $56.0 million and $32.5 million as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and are netted against the gross accounts receivable balance in the consolidated balance sheets. Insurance operations: Claims Reserves -- Claims reserves include traditional life insurance, such as whole life insurance, term life insurance, stop-loss insurance and accident and health insurance, as well as universal life insurance policies and annuity contracts that do not have significant mortality or morbidity risk. A substantial portion of life insurance reserves represents business ceded to National Farmers Union Life Insurance Company ("National Farmers"). Stop-loss reserves and accident and health reserves are established based on medical claims payment history adjusted for specific benefit plan elements (such as deductibles) and expected savings generated by utilization of the First Health(R) Network.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Reinsurance Recoverable -- Reinsurance recoverable represents the amount due from other insurance companies as a result of the cession of a portion of the Company's insurance risk to such companies. Reinsurance recoverable is divided between current amounts ($1.4 million and $14.5 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively) and noncurrent amounts ($26.2 million and $24.3 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively). The current portion has increased significantly as the Company has entered into several new ceding arrangements in its small group insurance business. The current amounts are included in the "Other current assets" line on the consolidated balance sheets. The noncurrent portion is all due from National Farmers in a prior business arrangement. Net income per common share: Net income per common share-basic is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Net income per common share-diluted is based on the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the period. In calculating earnings per share, earnings are the same for the basic and diluted calculations. Weighted average shares outstanding increased for diluted earnings per share by 4,722,000, 3,561,000 and 2,316,000 for 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively, due to the effect of stock options. Diluted net income per share was lower than basic by $0.05 for 2001 and by $0.04 for 2002 and 2003 as a result of the increased weighted average shares outstanding due to the effect of stock options. All historical common share data have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock distribution paid on June 25, 2001, to stockholders of record on June 4, 2001. Treasury shares were not split. However, an adjustment was made to the stockholders' equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet to split the cost of treasury stock (in effect, a cancellation of treasury shares by reducing paid-in-capital and retained earnings). New Accounting Pronouncements: In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which the Company adopted effective January 1, 2002. SFAS 142 specifies that goodwill and certain intangible assets will not be amortized but rather are subject to periodic impairment testing. Consequently, goodwill acquired in business combinations completed before July 1, 2001, was amortized through December 31, 2001. Goodwill acquired in business combinations subsequent to July 1, 2001 has not been amortized. The following table reflects the effect of SFAS 142 on net income and earnings per share as if SFAS 142 had been in effect for all periods presented: Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 146 ("SFAS 146"), "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," which requires companies to recognize costs associated with
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Examples of costs covered by the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance costs that are associated with a restructuring, discontinued operation, or other exit or disposal activity. The adoption of SFAS 146 had no impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 148 ("SFAS 148"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure," which amends SFAS No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." The Company accounts for its stock-based employee compensation plans under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net income as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price at least equal to the market value of the stock at date of grant. As permitted by SFAS 123, and amended by SFAS 148, the Company follows the disclosure requirements only of SFAS 123 and SFAS 148. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123. Effective July 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 150 ("SFAS 150"), "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity," which establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The adoption of SFAS 150 had no impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 2. ACQUISITIONS: On August 16, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of CCN Managed Care, Inc. ("CCN") and Preferred Works, Inc. ("PW" and together with CCN, the "CCN Companies") from HCA-The Healthcare Company and VH Holdings, Inc. (collectively, the "Sellers") for a purchase price of $195 million in cash, plus a working capital adjustment that increased the purchase price to approximately $198 million. The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method of
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) accounting. The integration of the CCN operations was substantially completed by December 31, 2003. The allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed was as follows: The following unaudited pro forma information reflects the results of the Company's operations as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of 2001 adjusted for (i) the effect of recurring charges related to the acquisition, primarily the amortization of intangible assets over estimated useful lives of 15 or 20 years, as appropriate, and the recording of interest expense on borrowings to finance the acquisition; (ii) the reduction of depreciation expense due to the write-down to fair value of fixed assets, the elimination of amortization expense related to the CCN Companies' preexisting goodwill at the date of acquisition and the elimination of compensation and benefit expenses for certain executives of the CCN Companies who were terminated at or immediately subsequent to the acquisition and were not replaced, and (iii) the removal of revenues and related cost of services and expenses for acquired businesses that were held for sale. These pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of what operating results would have been had the acquisition actually taken place at the beginning of 2001, nor do they purport to represent results of future operations of the merged companies. On May 1, 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of HealthCare Value Management ("HCVM") for an initial purchase price of $24 million. The Company paid an additional $6.5 million in 2003 for contractual obligations based on financial performance measures that HCVM has met. HCVM is a New England-based PPO company, headquartered in suburban Boston. The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and was financed from borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The integration of the HCVM operations was substantially completed by December 31, 2002. The results of operations and assets acquired are immaterial to the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Consequently, no pro forma financial results are included herein.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Purchase price has been allocated as follows:
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $ 161 Goodwill.................................................... 23,568 Intangible assets........................................... 5,658 Liabilities assumed......................................... (239) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (100) ------- $29,048 =======
On July 1, 2002, the Company acquired the stock of Claims Administration Corporation ("CAC") for a purchase price of approximately $18 million. Included in this transaction was the transfer of approximately 1,000 CAC employees and related assets that support the Mail Handlers Benefit Plan (the "Plan"). The acquisition relates to long-term contracts that the Company was awarded in April 2002 to provide its comprehensive health plan services to the Plan. The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and was financed with borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The results of operations and assets acquired are immaterial to the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Consequently, no pro forma financial results are included herein. Purchase price has been allocated as follows:
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $ 9,111 Goodwill.................................................... 4,507 Intangible assets........................................... 9,155 Liabilities assumed......................................... (5,024) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (185) ------- $17,564 =======
On October 31, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Health Net Employer Services, Inc. ("Health Net") from Health Net, Inc. for approximately $79 million. The purchase also includes Health Net Plus Managed Care Services, Inc. and Health Net CompAmerica, Inc. Health Net Employer Services, Inc. is a workers' compensation managed care company based in Irvine, California. The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and was financed with borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The results of operations and assets acquired are immaterial to the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Consequently, no pro forma financial results are included herein. Purchase price has been allocated, on a preliminary basis, as follows:
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $17,070 Goodwill.................................................... 43,524 Intangible assets........................................... 29,512 Liabilities assumed......................................... (7,968) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (2,950) ------- $79,188 =======
On October 31, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of PPO Oklahoma for a purchase price of $10 million, subject to certain purchase price considerations. PPO Oklahoma operates almost exclusively in the state of Oklahoma. The acquisition was accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and was financed with borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The results of operations and assets acquired are immaterial to the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Consequently, no pro forma financial results are included herein.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Purchase price has been allocated, on a preliminary basis, as follows:
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $ 622 Goodwill.................................................... 6,499 Intangible assets........................................... 3,726 Liabilities assumed......................................... (172) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (350) ------- $10,325 =======
3. ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS The following table summarizes the intangible asset amounts as of December 31, 2002 and 2003: Customer contracts and relationships represent added value to the Company's business for existing long-term contracts and long-term business relationships. Provider contracts represent additions to The First Health(R) Network that the Company has acquired. The aggregate amortization expense recorded in 2002 and 2003 was $3.6 million and $4.7 million, respectively. The estimated amortization expense for each of the years ending December 31, 2004 through 2007 is $7.3 million. The estimated amortization expense for the year ending December 31, 2008 is $6.6 million. The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, are as follows: The goodwill acquired during 2003 represents $43.5 million acquired in the Health Net acquisition and $6.5 million acquired in the PPO Oklahoma acquisition. The other goodwill adjustments represent a reduction of $5.2 million in tax and other liabilities related to the CCN acquisition and a $1.9 million reduction related to the finalization of the allocation of the purchase price related to the CAC and HCVM acquisitions partially offset by $2.0 million in financial performance payments made related to the HCVM acquisition. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142, the Company completed an annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2003. There was no impairment in goodwill amounts as a result of the annual impairment test.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) 4. MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND INVESTMENTS: Information related to the Company's marketable securities and investments at December 31 is as follows: Gross unrealized gains and (losses) were $2,863,000 and $(830,000), respectively, at December 31, 2002, and $1,945,000 and $(263,000) respectively, at December 31, 2003. Contractual maturities of marketable debt securities at December 31 are as follows: Gross realized gains and (losses) on sales or maturities of marketable securities were $672,000 and $(1,071,000), respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2001; $1,045,000 and $(643,000) respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2002, and $2,207,000 and $(580,000) respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2003. The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2003.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The Company continually monitors the market values of its marketable securities to determine if any unrealized holding loss should be classified as other than a temporary impairment. Securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than 12 months are generally written down to their fair value. All of the securities that represent the $263,000 in unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 are considered to have immaterial and temporary declines in market value due to fluctuations in interest rates. These securities are all high-grade bonds spread over a variety of investment vehicles. Included in other long-term investments at December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 is an investment in a limited liability company ("LLC") which invests in equipment that is leased to third parties. The investment is accounted for on the equity method. The total investment in this LLC was $54.0 million at December 31, 2002 and $59.0 million at December 31, 2003, including $6.7 million invested during 2003. The Company's proportionate share of the partnership's income was $2.9 million in 2001, $3.1 million in 2002 and $3.0 million in 2003, and is included in interest income. This LLC recorded an unrealized loss on interest rates swaps in 2003, of which the Company recorded its equity portion of $2.2 million, net of $1.3 million in related taxes. The Company recorded this unrealized loss in its Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2003 and as part of its accumulated comprehensive income on its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003. A member of the Company's Board of Directors is associated with a group that owns approximately 90% of this partnership. The Company has between a 20% and 33% interest in each individual tranche of the partnership. 5. REINSURANCE: On October 1, 1996, in anticipation of being acquired by the Company, First Health Life and Health Insurance Company, formerly known as Loyalty Life Insurance Company ("Loyalty"), entered into a reinsurance agreement whereby it ceded 100% of its life insurance and annuity contracts in force ("pre- acquisition business") to a former affiliate, National Farmers. Under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, all premiums and deposits received by Loyalty that relate to pre-acquisition business are transferred to National Farmers. Additionally, the cash and investments transferred by Loyalty to National Farmers, which support ceded insurance liabilities, are held in escrow for the benefit of Loyalty's policyholders. Premiums and policy benefits, which are not material in amount, are ceded to National Farmers and shown net of such cessions in the consolidated statements of operations. Loyalty has received approvals from the insurance regulators to transfer the pre-acquisition business. As the policyholders of each state agree to the legal replacement of Loyalty by National Farmers, Loyalty will be released from future liability for its pre- acquisition business, and that will result in the removal of such policy liabilities from the Company's consolidated balance sheets. These liabilities are included in long-term claims reserves on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The Company also assumes and cedes reinsurance with other insurance companies in the normal course of business. Reinsurance is ceded primarily to limit losses from large exposures and to permit recovery of a portion of direct losses. The Company continues to have primary liability as the direct insurer for all ceded risks. In 2003, the Company entered into a reinsurance agreement with New England Financial ("NEF") whereby the Company ceded 80% of the premiums and related policy benefits (to a highly-rated carrier) on a new block of small group, multi-sited business. The NEF agreement substantially increased the recoverable amount at December 31, 2003. Reinsurance is assumed to increase the Company's revenues and to provide
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) additional diversification of its insured risks. The effects of reinsurance on premiums and contract charges earned are as follows: The recoverable amounts at December 31, 2003 include $34.1 million estimated by the Company with respect to ceded unpaid losses (including claims incurred but not reported), which are not billable until the losses are paid. Estimating amounts of reinsurance recoverable is impacted by the uncertainties involved in the establishment of loss reserves. Management believes the recoverables are appropriately established; however, the amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts currently recorded. 6. CLAIMS RESERVES: The Company establishes claims reserves on reported and unreported medical claims pertaining to insured losses. These reserve estimates are based on known facts and circumstances including historical trends and claims payment history adjusted for specific benefit plan elements (such as deductibles) and expected savings generated by utilization of the First Health(R) Network. The Company classifies claims reserves as either short or long-term based on whether a claim is expected to be settled within the next 12 months. The short-term reserves are composed primarily of either stop-loss or small group accident and health reserves. The long-term reserves represent the pre-acquisition business discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed and updated, using the most current information available. Any resulting adjustments, which may be material, are reflected in current operations. The following table summarizes claims reserve activity for the years ending December 31:
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Management believes that the claims reserves as of December 31, 2003 are appropriate and adequate to cover the ultimate cost of reported and unreported claims. 7. ACCRUED EXPENSES: Accrued expenses at December 31, 2002 include approximately $11. 4 million for merger-related restructuring expenses; $22.6 million for accrued salaries, wages and benefits; and $6.0 million for insurance accruals. Accrued expenses at December 31, 2003 include approximately $5.1 million for merger-related restructuring expenses; $27.0 million for accrued salaries, wages and benefits; and $5.3 million for insurance accruals. 8. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS: The Company has a $400 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, $120 million and $270 million, respectively, was outstanding under the facility. The credit facility has a five-year term and provides for interest at a Euro-dollar rate (which approximates LIBOR) plus a variable margin that fluctuates based on the Company's debt rating. The facility also has a corresponding fee calculated at a variable rate of the available facility balance depending on the debt rating of the Company. As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, the effective marginal interest rate was approximately 3.5% and 2% per annum, respectively. No principal payments are due on this facility until its maturity. The agreement contains provisions that require the Company to maintain a specified level of net worth and comply with various financial ratios and includes, among other provisions, restrictions on investments, dividend payments, acquisitions and incurrence of additional indebtedness. At December 31, 2003, $471 million was available for dividend distributions under these provisions. The Company was in compliance with all provisions as of December 31, 2003. 9. INCOME TAXES: Components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Deferred tax assets and (liabilities) comprise the following, as of December 31: Income tax benefits associated with the exercise of stock options were $16,634,000 in 2001, $16,521,000 in 2002 and $8,920,000 in 2003. Such amounts are credited to additional paid-in-capital. 10. EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS: The Company has employment agreements that expire between 2004 and 2008 with certain officers and key employees. The agreements provide for, among other things, annual base salaries aggregating $2.8 million plus additional incentive compensation. The Company recorded incentive compensation to certain key officers and employees in the aggregate amount of $3,150,000, $4,100,000 and $3,250,000 in 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively. 11. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY: Employee Stock Purchase Plan: The Company maintains an Employee Stock Purchase Plan that allows employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to purchase shares of common stock on the last day of two six-month purchase periods (i.e., February 28 or 29 and August 31 of each year) at a purchase price that is 85% of the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the NASDAQ national market on the first or last day
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) of such purchase period, whichever is lower. A maximum of 4.0 million shares has been authorized for issuance under the plan. As of December 31, 2003, 3.5 million shares had been issued pursuant to the plan with approximately 0.2 million shares issued during each of years from 2001 to 2003. Stock options: The Company maintains an Employee Stock Option Plan that provides for the granting of options to employees and consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries to purchase common stock at a price not less than 100% of fair market value at date of grant. These grants have contractual lives that range from 5 to 10 years. The Company also maintains a Stock Option Plan that provides for the granting of options to purchase common stock at or above fair market value at date of grant to nonemployee members of its Board of Directors. These grants have a 10-year contractual life. The Company has also granted options to certain of its employees and members of its Board of Directors under individual option agreements, which expire between 2006 and 2008. The Company had extended loans to various members of management to enable them to exercise options to purchase shares of Company common stock. Each loan was secured by the common stock purchased and the Company had full recourse in the event of default. There were $0.3 million of such loans outstanding at December 31, 2002. No such loans are outstanding at December 31, 2003. Such loans were classified as an offset to stockholders' equity. The Company no longer grants these loans to executive officers. The following table summarizes changes in common stock under option plans. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2003:
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The weighted average fair values at date of grant for options granted during 2001, 2002 and 2003 were $12.20, $11.69 and $9.05, respectively, and were estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: Treasury Stock: In 2002, the Company's Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. In 2003, the Board approved a new authorization to repurchase up to an additional 5 million shares of common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time depending on market conditions and other relevant factors. The Company had approximately 6.1 million shares available for repurchase under these repurchase authorizations as of December 31, 2003. The Company did not repurchase any common stock shares during 2001. During 2002, the Company repurchased 4.5 million shares of its outstanding common stock in the open market for a total cost of $109.3 million. During 2003, the Company repurchased 9.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock in the open market for a total cost of $216.6 million. The repurchased stock was recorded as treasury stock, at cost, and is available for general corporate purposes. In connection with the exercise of options to purchase 8,000 shares of common stock during 2002, a certain employee paid the exercise price by delivering to the Company approximately 2,000 shares of previously acquired stock. In connection with the exercise of options to purchase 94,000 shares of common stock during 2003, a certain employee paid the exercise price by delivering to the Company approximately 20,000 shares of previously acquired stock. Employee Benefit Plan: The Company maintains a Savings and Investment Plan that allows eligible employees to allocate up to 15% of their salary, through payroll deductions, among various mutual funds. The Company matches 85% of the employee's contribution, up to 6% of his or her salary. The cost of this plan (net of forfeitures) was $4.2 million in 2001, $5.3 million in 2002 and $7.1 million in 2003. 12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to various claims arising in the ordinary course of business and are parties to various legal proceedings that constitute litigation incidental to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company does not believe that the outcome of such matters will have a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations. The Company's largest client (Mail Handlers Benefit Plan) generated revenue of approximately $236 million in 2003, or 27% of total revenues. This amount is net of a reserve established by the Company for various issues associated with the potential disallowance of certain expenses charged to the Plan. In addition, the provisions of the contract with the Plan's sponsor, the National Postal Mail Handlers Union, require that the Company fund any deficits in the Plan after the Plan's reserves have been fully utilized. As of December 31, 2003, the Plan has approximately $346 million in reserves to cover Plan expenses, which may exceed the premiums charged and collected from the Plan participants by the Plan sponsor. Management believes that these reserves are adequate to cover any Plan deficits as of December 31, 2003. There are no known Plan deficits as of December 31, 2003. Financial Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others," requires the Company to disclose certain guarantees, including contractual indemnifications, it has assumed. The Company generally declines to provide indemnification to its customers. In limited circumstances, to secure long-term customer contracts at favorable rates, the Company may negotiate risk allocation through
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) mutual indemnification provisions that, in the Company's judgment, appropriately allocate risk relative to the value of the customer. Management believes that any liability under these indemnification provisions would not be material. Leases: The Company leases office facilities under leases through 2010. At December 31, 2003, future minimum annual rental commitments, gross of $1.4 million in future income under noncancelable contractual sublease agreements, were as follows: Total rent expense, recognized under the straight-line method, was $9.9 million in 2001, $13.3 million in 2002 and $13.9 million in 2003. Agreement with EDS: The Company has an agreement (the "EDS Agreement") with Electronic Data Systems Corporation ("EDS"), primarily for the purpose of developing and jointly marketing medical and administrative cost management services to workers' compensation payors. The initial term of the EDS Agreement was scheduled to end on January 1, 2005, and has been extended to at least 2010. EDS provides data processing, electronic claims transmission and marketing support services to the Company. Fees paid by the Company to EDS for its medical cost management services are based upon a per-bill charge plus percentage of savings method. 13. MAJOR CUSTOMERS: During 2001, 2002 and 2003, the Company had one customer (Mail Handlers Benefit Plan) that accounted for 13%, 21% and 27%, respectively, of revenues. 14. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The use of derivatives by the Company has not been material, although they have been used from time to time to reduce interest rate risks, potentially increase the return on invested funds and manage the cost of common stock repurchase programs. Investments in derivative financial instruments are approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The Company invests in an LLC that uses interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk. The Company recorded its equity portion of the unrealized loss on these derivatives in 2003, in the amount of $2.2 million, net of $1.3 million in related taxes, in its Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. The Company has no other derivatives as of December 31, 2003. 15. SEGMENT INFORMATION: The Company operates in two segments: Commercial and Public Sector. In the Commercial segment, the Company often bundles its products and services to offer a comprehensive health benefits solution to the customer centered around the First Health(R) Network. In the Public Sector segment, the Company offers products and services more specialized to the needs of the individual customer as public sector health programs move toward more efficient utilization of health services. The Company has one executive management team who reviews and approves all strategic and resource allocations for each of the two
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) segments. Discreet financial information is available for each of the two segments and is reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker. The Company calculates income from operations and net income for each segment consistent with the accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements. Interest expense for the Company's credit facility is charged solely to the Commercial segment. The Commercial segment also includes the Company's treasury, legal, tax and other similar corporate functions. Income taxes are computed using the consolidated income tax rate of the Company. Summarized segment financial information for the years ended December 31 is as follows:
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) 16. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED): The following is a summary of unaudited results of operations (in thousands except per share data) for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003.

. . . EXHIBIT 99.3 FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 1. The unaudited financial statements herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The accompanying interim financial statements have been prepared under the presumption that users of the interim financial information have either read or have access to the audited financial statements for the latest fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. Accordingly, footnote disclosures which would substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in the December 31, 2003 audited financial statements have been omitted from these interim financial statements. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. In our opinion, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation. Although the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, it is suggested that these interim financial statements be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's latest Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2. On October 31, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Health Net Employer Services, Inc. ("Employer Services"), from Health Net, Inc. for approximately $79 million. Health Net Employer Services, Inc. has been renamed First Health Employer Services, Inc. The acquisition was financed with borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The allocation of the purchase price is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2004. Purchase price has been allocated, on a preliminary basis, as follows (in millions):
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $17.1 Goodwill.................................................... 43.5 Intangible assets........................................... 29.5 Liabilities assumed......................................... (8.0) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (2.9) ----- $79.2 =====
On October 31, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of PPO Oklahoma for an initial purchase price of approximately $10 million, subject to certain purchase price considerations. The acquisition was financed with borrowings under the Company's credit facility. The Company paid an additional $1 million in the third quarter of 2004 based on those purchase price considerations and increased goodwill. Additional purchase price may be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004 when the contingent purchase provisions are resolved. Purchase price has been allocated, on a preliminary basis, as follows (in millions):
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $ 0.6 Goodwill.................................................... 7.6 Intangible assets........................................... 3.7 Liabilities assumed......................................... (0.2) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (0.3) ----- $11.4 =====
On April 7, 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of COMP Medical for a purchase price of approximately $6 million, subject to certain purchase price considerations depending on future performance. COMP Medical has been renamed First Health Priority Services, Inc. ("FHPS"). The acquisition was funded with cash from operating activities. Additional goodwill may be recognized as the annual contingent purchase provisions are resolved.
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) Purchase price has been allocated, on a preliminary basis, as follows (in millions):
Fair value of tangible assets acquired...................... $ 3.2 Goodwill.................................................... 3.5 Intangible assets........................................... 2.5 Liabilities assumed......................................... (2.8) Liability for restructuring and integration costs........... (0.1) ----- $ 6.3 =====
3. Acquired Intangible Assets Customer contracts and relationships represent added value to the Company's business for existing long-term contracts and long-term business relationships. Provider contracts represent additions to the First Health(R) Network that the Company has acquired. The aggregate amortization expense recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, was $5.9 million and $3.1 million. The estimated amortization expense for each of the years ending December 31, 2004 through 2007 is approximately $7.4 million. The estimated amortization expense for the year ending December 31, 2008 is approximately $6.9 million. The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 are as follows: The goodwill acquired in 2004 represents the goodwill from the FHPS acquisition. The other goodwill adjustments in 2004 represent payments for purchase price consideration related to the acquisition of PPO Oklahoma. The goodwill acquired in 2003 represents goodwill from the Employer Services and PPO Oklahoma acquisitions. The other goodwill adjustments in 2003 represented finalization of the allocation of the purchase price related to prior acquisitions. 4. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 ("SFAS 148"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure," which amends SFAS No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." The Company accounts for these plans under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related Interpretations. No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net income (other than compensation cost for consultants), as all options granted under these plans had an exercise price at least equal to the market value of the underlying common
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) stock on the date of grant. As permitted by SFAS 123, and amended by SFAS 148, the Company follows only the disclosure requirements of SFAS 123 and SFAS 148. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions to all outstanding and unvested awards in each period: 5. Accounts receivable valuation allowances for client-specific items were $39.4 million and $36.5 million as of September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. These valuation allowances for matters such as performance guarantees and claim, eligibility and data adjustments, are netted against the gross accounts receivable balance in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company's largest client, Mail Handlers Benefit Plan ("MHBP" or the "Plan"), generated revenue of approximately $51.3 million and $152.9 million (23% of total revenue) during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004, respectively, compared to $63.2 million and $169.3 million in revenues (29% and 26% of total revenues, respectively) during the comparable periods of 2003. As previously reported, the Company recorded $8 million of revenue in third quarter of 2003 related to the internal reconciliation of 2002 MHBP claims and the Company recorded $3 million of revenue in the second quarter of 2004 related to the internal reconciliation of 2003 MHBP claims. 6. Allowances for doubtful accounts were $17.5 million and $21.1 million as of September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively. The allowances for doubtful accounts are established based on historical experience and current economic circumstances and are adjusted monthly based upon updated information. 7. The Company's investments in marketable securities, which are classified as available for sale, had a net unrealized loss in market value of $0.3 million, net of deferred income taxes, for the nine month period ended September 30, 2004. The accumulated net unrealized loss as of September 30, 2004, included as a component of stockholders' equity, was $0.2 million, net of deferred income taxes. The Company has eight separate investments in a limited liability company that invests in equipment that is leased to third parties. The total investment as of September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003 was $62.6 million and $59.0 million, respectively, and is accounted for using the equity method. The Company's proportionate share of the partnership's income was $2.5 million and $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and is included in interest income. The total investment recorded at September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2003 is net of an unrealized loss on interest rate swaps of $0.5 million (net of $0.2 million in related taxes) and $2.2 million (net of $1.3 million in related taxes), respectively, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. A member of the Company's Board of Directors is associated with
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) a group that owns approximately 90% of this partnership. The Company has between a 20% and 25% interest in the limited partners share of each individual tranche of the partnership (approximately 10% of the total partnership). The partnership had $1.3 billion in total assets as of September 30, 2004. 8. In 2003 the Company's Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 5 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. The Board had previously approved the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of common stock. Purchases may be made from time to time, depending on market conditions and other relevant factors. The Company did not repurchase any shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2004. During the nine months ended September 30, 2003, the Company repurchased 6.2 million shares (1.0 million shares in the third quarter) on the open market for approximately $153.3 million ($27.8 million in the third quarter). The actual cash paid of $149.8 million excludes $3.4 million for trades dated in September that were settled in the first 3 days of October. As of September 30, 2004, approximately 6.1 million shares remain available for repurchase under the Company's current repurchase authorization. The Company has agreed that it will not repurchase any common stock prior to the closing of its proposed Merger (See Note 13). 9. Weighted average shares outstanding for the diluted earnings per share calculation increased by 1.0 million and 1.4 million and by 2.3 million and 2.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, due to the effect of stock options outstanding. Diluted net income per share was the same as basic net income per share for the three months ended September 30, 2004. Diluted net income per share was $.01 less than basic net income per share for the three months ended September 30, 2003, due to the effect of stock options outstanding. Diluted net income per share was $.01 less than basic net income per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and $.03 less than basic net income per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2003, due to the effect of stock options outstanding. 10. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146 ("SFAS 146"), "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", which requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Examples of costs covered by the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance costs that are associated with a restructuring, discontinued operation, or other exit or disposal activity. During the quarter ended March 31, 2004, the Company initiated a plan to terminate approximately 200 employees for a total cost of $1.4 million in termination benefits. The plan was completed in the third quarter of 2004. Substantially all of the termination costs were incurred in the first quarter of 2004. This termination plan was solely for the Commercial segment of the Company. 11. A purported class action lawsuit was filed on October 20, 2004 against Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry"), the Company and the Company's Board of Directors in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois following the announcement that the Company had entered into the Merger Agreement with Coventry (See Note 13). The plaintiff in this litigation alleges, among other things, that the Company and its Board of Directors breached their fiduciary duties by entering into the Merger Agreement with Coventry and seeks to represent a class consisting of all of the Company's stockholders who were allegedly harmed by such action. The plaintiff seeks to enjoin the consummation of the Merger Agreement, the imposition of a constructive trust in favor of the plaintiff, and an award of attorneys' and experts' fees. The Company believes the plaintiff's allegations are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this litigation. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to various claims arising in the ordinary course of business and are parties to various legal proceedings that constitute litigation incidental to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company does not believe that the outcome of such matters will have a material effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) The provisions of the contract with the Plan's sponsor, the National Postal Mail Handlers Union, require that the Company fund any deficits in the Plan after the Plan's reserves have been fully utilized. As of September 30, 2004, the Plan has approximately $378 million in reserves to cover Plan expenses, which may exceed the premiums charged and collected from the Plan participants by the Plan sponsor. The Plan had approximately $346 million in such reserves as of December 31, 2003. There are no known Plan deficits as of September 30, 2004. FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others," requires the Company to disclose certain guarantees, including contractual indemnifications, it has assumed. The Company generally declines to provide indemnification to its customers. In limited circumstances, to secure long-term customer contracts at favorable rates, the Company may negotiate risk allocation through mutual indemnification provisions that, in the Company's judgment, appropriately allocate risk relative to the value of the customer. Management believes that any liability under these indemnification provisions would not be material. 12. The Company operates in two segments: Commercial and Public Sector. In the Commercial segment, the Company often bundles its products and services to offer a comprehensive health benefits solution to the customer centered around the First Health(R) Network. In the Public Sector segment, the Company offers products and services more specialized to the needs of the individual customer as public sector health programs move toward more efficient utilization of health services. The Company has one executive management team that reviews and approves all strategic and resource allocations for each of the two segments. Discreet financial information is available for each of the two segments and is reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker. The Company calculates income from operations and net income for each segment consistent with the accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements. Interest expense for the Company's credit facility is charged primarily to the Commercial segment. The Commercial segment also includes the Company's treasury, legal, tax and other similar corporate functions. Income taxes are computed using the consolidated income tax rate of the Company. Summarized segment financial information for the three and nine months ended September 30 is as follows: Included in the Commercial segment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004, is $0.8 million, net of related taxes, of expenses related to the Company's proposed merger (see Note 13).
FIRST HEALTH GROUP CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED) 13. On October 14, 2004, the Company announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated October 13, 2004 (the "Merger Agreement"), with Coventry pursuant to which the Company will merge with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of Coventry (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Company common stock will be converted (except for shares held in the treasury of the Company or owned by a stockholder who properly demands appraisal rights) into and represent the right to receive 0.1791 shares of Coventry common stock and $9.375 in cash. The Merger Agreement has been approved by the Company's Board of Directors and the Merger is expected to close in the first quarter of 2005, subject to the approval of the Company stockholders, regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.

EXHIBIT 99.4 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On October 13, 2004, Coventry, Merger Sub and First Health entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which First Health will be merged with and into Merger Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Coventry, with Merger Sub being the surviving entity. Under the terms of the merger agreement, holders of First Health common stock will receive 0.1791 shares of Coventry common stock and $9.375 in cash for each share of First Health common stock they own. Total consideration for the transaction, to be issued upon closing, is comprised of approximately 16.5 million shares of Coventry common stock, valued at approximately $782.7 million based upon the average of Coventry's share closing prices from October 12, 2004 through October 18, 2004, and approximately $904.9 million in cash. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, it is assumed that 100% of the outstanding options to purchase First Health common stock will be tendered for cash pursuant to First Health's option tender offer. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements give effect to the acquisition of First Health by Coventry as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2003 and January 1, 2004 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 and the nine months ended September 30, 2004, respectively. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements give effect to the acquisition of First Health by Coventry as if the acquisition had occurred on September 30, 2004 for purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2004. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price is allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets of an acquired entity based on their estimated fair values as of the completion of the transaction. A final determination of these fair values will include management's consideration of a valuation prepared by an independent valuation specialist. This valuation will be based on the actual net tangible and intangible assets of First Health that exist as of the closing date of the merger, currently estimated to occur in the first quarter of 2005. Because this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values, the actual amounts recorded as of the completion of the merger may differ materially from the information presented in this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. In addition to the final valuation, the impact of any integration activities, the timing of completion of the transaction and other changes in First Health's net tangible and intangible assets that occur prior to completion of the merger could cause material differences from the information presented below. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Coventry, the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of First Health included in First Health's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Coventry that would have been reported had the transaction been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Coventry. This information is for illustrative purposes only. Coventry and First Health would likely have performed differently had they always been combined. You should not rely on this information as being indicative of future results after the merger.
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED BALANCE SHEET AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2004 (IN THOUSANDS)
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2004 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (1) While Coventry has conducted preliminary reviews of accounting and financial reporting policy differences relating to First Health, this review is ongoing and will continue throughout the merger process. As such, reclassifications or additional pro forma adjustments may be identified. (2) The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements give effect to the issuance of Coventry common stock and cash based upon the exchange ratio of 0.1791 shares of Coventry common stock and $9.375 of cash for each outstanding share of First Health common stock. The cash and stock components of the merger consideration could change as explained under the caption "Market Price and Dividend Information" beginning on page 16. The average market price per share of Coventry common stock of $47.56 is based upon the average of the closing prices on the New York Stock Exchange for a range of trading days (October 12, 2004 through October 18, 2004) around the announcement date (October 14, 2004) of the merger. This results in an estimated purchase price of $1,726 million ($783 million in stock, $905 million in cash, and $38 million of estimated transaction costs) as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
STOCK CONSIDERATION Coventry market price per share (measured as described above).................................................... $47.56 Exchange ratio.............................................. 0.1791 ------ Equivalent per share consideration.......................... $ 8.52 Outstanding shares of First Health common stock............. 91,887 ------ Fair value of shares of Coventry common stock to be issued.................................................... $ 782,693 CASH CONSIDERATION Per share cash consideration................................ $9.375 Outstanding shares of First Health common stock............. 91,887 ------ Cash to be paid to stockholders............................. $ 861,441 Cash to be paid for tendered options (assuming 100% are tendered)................................................. $ 43,473 ---------- Total cash to be paid....................................... $ 904,914 Estimated transaction costs................................. $ 38,200 ---------- Estimated purchase price.................................... $1,725,807 ==========
The estimated purchase price of $1,726 million has been preliminarily allocated to acquired tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair values as of September 30, 2004 as detailed below (in thousands):
Estimated purchase price.................................... $1,725,807 First Health net tangible assets -- September 30, 2004...... $ (70,256) ---------- Total excess purchase price................................. $1,655,551 Estimated finite-lived intangible assets.................... $ (275,000) Deferred tax liability for finite-lived intangible assets... $ 96,250 Cost of debt issuance (as described in note 14)............. $ (10,300) ---------- Estimated goodwill.......................................... $1,466,501 ==========
(3) Finite lived intangible assets relating to the First Health acquisition have been estimated at approximately $275 million, consisting of primarily customer lists, membership lists and provider networks. The estimated weighted average useful life is approximately 18 years and the estimated annual amortization expense is approximately $15.3 million.
(4) Represents the use of free cash of $225 million to finance the transaction, less unpaid transaction costs (see note 9). The effective interest rate used for the foregone interest income is 2.0% based upon estimated current interest rates on Coventry's short term investments. The foregone interest income is estimated at $4.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2003 and $3.4 million for the nine months ending September 30, 2004. (5) Represents the estimated interest expense associated with borrowing the approximate $913 million to be paid as part of the merger consideration (see note 10). The effective interest rates include the amortization of estimated deferred issuance costs and are based upon the issuance of $500 million of senior notes at approximately 6.25% and $413 million of variable rate debt (based on LIBOR) with interest rates of 2.88% for the year ending December 31, 2003 and 2.94% for the nine months ending September 30, 2004. The cost of the unused portion of the revolving credit facility is .3%. The associated interest expense for the borrowings described above is estimated at $43.3 million for the year ending December 31, 2003 and $32.6 million for the nine months ending September 30, 2004. (6) Represents the pro forma tax effect of the pro forma adjustments based upon the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%. (7) Represents the increase in weighted average shares outstanding following the completion of the merger assuming the issuance of 16.5 million shares of Coventry common stock at the beginning of the period presented. The share issuance is based upon the 91.9 million outstanding shares of First Health common stock multiplied by the 0.1791 exchange ratio as described in note 2. (8) Represents the elimination of First Health's equity, goodwill and other intangible assets accounts. (9) Represents an accrual of $38.2 million for estimated merger expenses (including advisory fees, debt issuance costs and other transaction related costs). (10) Anticipated sources of cash for the merger are as follows (in thousands):
Issuance of senior notes.................................... $ 500,000 Term loan ($30 million due within one year after closing)... $ 300,000 $150 million revolving line of credit, remainder unused..... $ 113,114 Cash on hand................................................ $ 225,000 Less: Payoff of First Health debt........................... $(195,000) --------- Cash to be paid............................................. $ 943,114 =========
(11) Represents the issuance of Coventry's common stock as consideration in the merger as described in note 2. (12) Represents the payoff of the First Health debt and the corresponding estimated reduction in interest expense. (13) Represents the elimination of First Health transaction expenses reported for the nine months ended September 30, 2004. (14) Represents deferred financing costs associated with borrowings to finance the merger and related transactions that were reclassified to other long-term assets.


