FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20081002094501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
October 2,
2008 (September 26, 2008)
 
COVENTRY HEALTH CARE, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter).
 
 
 
6705 Rockledge Drive, Suite 900, Bethesda, Maryland 20817
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(301) 581-0600
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Precommencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Precommencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02
          
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(e)       On September 26, 2008, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") granted restricted shares of the Company's common stock to each of its named executive officers, in the amounts reported by each officer on Form 4 pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act of 1934. These grants were made in connection with an overall program designed to retain and motivate management level
employees throughout the Company who also received awards of restricted shares.
 
 
           The Committee granted the restricted shares to the named executive officers pursuant to restricted stock award agreements between the Company and each officer entered into as of September 26, 2008. As a condition to the grant of the award, each officer was also required to enter into a restrictive covenants agreement with the Company on the September 26, 2008 grant date.
 
           The Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement entered into between the Company and each named executive officer contains terms with respect to the lapse of restriction on such restricted shares (which is to occur in four equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date); the acceleration of the lapse of the restrictions on such shares in the event of a change of control, death or disability; and the forfeiture of such shares with restrictions remaining upon the termination of employment.
 
           The Form of Restrictive Covenants Agreement contains terms requiring the award recipient to comply with covenants regarding nondisclosure of the Company's confidential information; to refrain from competition with the Company and from soliciting the employment of the Company's employees and customers for a period of one year following termination of employment; pursuant to a "claw-back" provision, in the event of breach of the nocompetition covenant by the award recipient, to pay to the Company the fair market value of any shares granted pursuant to the restricted stock award agreement with respect to which the restrictions have lapsed within the last 12 months of employment, less any taxes paid with respect to such shares (with fair market value based on the Company's stock price the date restrictions lapsed); and with respect to the inapplicability of the noncompetition covenant in the event of a change in control of the Company.
 
           The foregoing summary of the restricted stock award agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement attached to this current report as Exhibit 10.1. The foregoing summary of the restrictive covenants agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Form of Restrictive Covenants Agreement attached to this current report as Exhibit 10.2.
 
Item 9.01
          
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Signature(s)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
COVENTRY HEALTH CARE, INC.
 
 
Date: October 2, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
("Agreement") is made and entered into as of September 26, 2008 by and between
COVENTRY HEALTH CARE, INC
., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") and __________ ("Holder").
 
1.
     
Restricted Stock Award
. The Company hereby awards Holder __________ shares of the Company's Common Stock (the "Common Stock"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the 2004 Incentive Plan (hereinafter the "Restricted Stock," which shall include any additional shares or other securities received in respect of the Restricted Stock through stock splits or stock dividends pursuant to Section 3 below or under the Company's 2004 Incentive Plan). If the terms of this Agreement conflict with or are inconsistent with the terms of the 2004 Incentive Plan, the 2004 Incentive Plan shall control.
 
2.       
Restrictions, Covenants and Conditions
: (a)(i)
Restrictions.
Commencing with the date hereof, Holder agrees that Holder has no right to, and shall not, sell, transfer, pledge or assign, in whole or in part, the Restricted Stock until (x) the Restrictive Covenants Agreement (see below) has been executed within the prescribed time period allowed and (y) the required time period with respect to each increment of Restricted Stock shall have lapsed.
 
(ii) 
Restrictive Covenants Agreement.
This award of Restricted Stock is contingent upon the Holder entering into a Restrictive Covenants Agreement within the prescribed time period set forth therein. In the event the Holder fails to enter into the Restrictive Covenants Agreement prior to or concurrently with the acceptance of this Agreement, then this award of Restricted Stock shall be forfeited, and this Agreement shall become null and void.
 
(iii) 
Lapse of Restrictions.
If Holder has entered into the Restrictive Covenants Agreement set forth in Subsection 2(a)(ii) above, then the restrictions set forth in Section 2(a)(i)(x) above shall lapse and be no longer in force and effect, and the required time period referenced in Section 2(a)(i)(y) above shall lapse in annual cumulative increments of
one-fourth
the number of shares of Restricted Stock awarded herein, with the first annual increment beginning on September 26, 2009. From and after each annual date, the shares as to which the above restrictions have lapsed shall be owned by Holder free and clear of all restrictions or limitations of this Agreement. As soon as reasonably practicable after each date the restrictions shall lapse, the Company shall deliver the unrestricted shares to Holder, either by issuing a stock certificate for the unrestricted shares or by transferring the unrestricted shares electronically to Holder's brokerage account.
 
(b)    Except as provided in this Agreement to the contrary, the Holder shall have, with respect to the Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a shareholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares and the right to receive any cash dividends. Pursuant to Section 3 below, stock or other security dividends or stock splits issued with respect to Restricted Stock shall be treated as additional Restricted Stock that are subject to the same restrictions and other terms and conditions that apply to the Restricted Stock with respect to which such dividends or splits are issued.
 
(c)    Upon termination of Holder's service as an employee of the Company for any reason during the term of this Agreement, all shares still subject to restriction will be forfeited, unless such termination is the result of Holder's death or Disability, in which case the Restricted Stock subject to restriction will immediately vest.
 
(d)    In the event of a Change in Control of the Company, Restricted Stock as to which restrictions have not lapsed will vest as of the date the Change in Control, as applicable, is deemed to have occurred.
 
3.       
Adjustments
. In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, extraordinary cash dividend, stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate structure affecting the Common Stock, such substitution or adjustment shall be made in the maximum number of shares of Restricted Stock as may be determined to be appropriate by the Committee, in its sole discretion, provided that the number of shares subject to any award shall always be a whole number.
 
4.       
Restricted Account/Stock Legend
. Holder acknowledges that the Company will either issue the Restricted Stock covered by this Agreement in the name of Holder to be held in an uncertificated restricted account or will issue a stock certificate for the Restricted Stock covered by this Agreement registered in the name of Holder, which certificate will bear the legend set forth below and any additional legend required by applicable securities law or by the New York Stock Exchange or any exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed:
 
The shares evidenced by this certificate are subject to the terms and conditions of a Restricted Stock Agreement date September 26, 2008 between Coventry Health Care, Inc. and the registered holder hereof.
 
Holder acknowledges that the certificates evidencing the Restricted Stock, whether certificated or uncertificated, shall be held in the custody of the Company in the name of the Holder until the restrictions lapse and that it is a condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement and the award of the Restricted Stock that Holder deliver to the Company the stock power enclosed herewith, endorsed in blank.
5.       
Non transferability
.  The Holder's rights hereunder shall not be transferable otherwise than as provided in the 2004 Incentive Plan, and the terms thereof shall be binding on the executors, administrators, heirs and successors of Holder.
 
6.       
Defined Terms
. Defined terms used herein and not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the 2004 Incentive Plan.
 
7.       
Amendment: Choice of Law
. This Agreement may be amended as provided in the Plan. This Agreement shall be governed by Maryland law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IRREVOCABLE STOCK OR BOND POWER
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned does hereby sell, assign and transfer to:
 
Coventry Health Care, Inc.
 
Social security or taxpayer identifying no.: 52-2073000
 
 
The undersigned does (do) hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
_____________________
attorney to transfer the said stock or bond (s), as the case may be, on the books of said Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS AGREEMENT
 
As a condition to the effectiveness of the Restricted Stock Award between Coventry Health Care, Inc. and Employee, dated September 26, 2008 (the "Award"), for good and valuable consideration, Employee agrees to the restrictive covenants set forth below. For purposes of this Restrictive Covenants Agreement ("Agreement"), the "Company" shall mean Coventry Health Care, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries and other affiliates.
 
SECTION I  RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
 
1.         
Covenant Not to Use or Disclose Confidential Information
.
Employee acknowledges that he/she will have access to trade secrets, confidential knowledge, data or other propriety information of Company whether or not developed, discovered or conceived by the Employee, not generally available to the public (collectively "Confidential Information"). By way of illustration, but not limitation, Confidential Information shall include new product or marketing plans, business strategies and plans, merger and acquisition targets, financial and pricing information, computer programs, source codes, models and databases, analytical models, customer lists and prospective customer lists, supplier and vendor lists, and other proprietary or Confidential Information relating or pertaining to the business and services of the Company, not generally available to the public. Employee further acknowledges that any unauthorized use of the Confidential Information by Employee, or any disclosure of the same to any third parties, would be wrongful and would cause irreparable injury to the Company.
 
Accordingly, Employee covenants and agrees that, for the period of his/her employment and at all times thereafter, he/she will (a) hold the Confidential Information in strictest confidence, (b) not to disclose such information to any person, firm, corporation or other entity, and (c) not use such information for any purpose not expressly authorized by the Company. Employee also agrees that upon request from the Company, he/she shall return all Confidential Information in his/her possession. Employee further agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless for any loss, claim or damages, including attorney's fees and costs, arising out of or related to the unauthorized disclosure or use of the Confidential Information by Employee.
 
2.         
Covenant Not To Compete
. Employee hereby covenants and agrees that during the period of his/her employment with the Company and for a period of one (1) year from the date after such employment terminates for any reason, Employee shall not, without the written consent of the General Counsel of the Company; directly or indirectly, either for himself/herself or for any other individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity, participate in any "Business" in which the Company is engaged on the date of the Employee's termination of employment. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "participate" shall include, without limitation, having any direct or indirect interest in a corporation, partnership, joint venture or other business entity, whether as a director, officer, employee, agent or consultant and the term "Business" means the marketing or sale of group or individual health insurance products and services; Medicare and Medicaid products, services and programs; network rental products and services; managed care products and services; dental insurance; group life insurance; workers compensation products and services; and behavioral health products and services. In the event Employee breaches this covenant not to compete, the one (1) year period referred to above shall be extended by the amount of time Employee was in violation of this covenant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may own less than two percent (2%) of any class of stock or security of any corporation that competes with the Company listed on a national securities exchange.
 
3.         
Covenant Not to Solicit Employees
. Employee hereby covenants and agrees that for a period of one (1) year following the Employee's termination of employment, he/she shall not, directly or indirectly, personally or as an employee, officer, director, partner, member, owner or consultant, induce, select, recruit or hire any employee of the Company or otherwise interfere with the employment relationship of any person employed by the Company.
 
4.         
Covenant Not to Solicit Customers
. Employee hereby covenants and agrees that for a period of one (1) year following the Employee's termination of employment, he/she shall not, directly or indirectly, personally or as an employee, officer, director, partner, member, owner or consultant, solicit or attempt to solicit any customer of the Company or induce or attempt to induce any customer of the Company to cease doing business, in whole or in part, with the Company.
5.         
Reasonableness of Provision
.
Employee agrees that the restrictions related to the covenants set forth in this Agreement are reasonable and necessary to protect the business interests of the Company. If any of the covenants' restrictions are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the parties contemplate that such provision shall be modified to make them enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
 
.
6.         
Remedies for Breach
 
 
 
SECTION II  OTHER PROVISIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
The Employee acknowledges that he/she has read this Agreement and understands and agrees to be bound by its terms
. Employee further acknowledges he/she has exercised due diligence in reviewing this Agreement and that he/she has had an adequate opportunity to consult with legal counsel or other advisors to the extent that he/she deemed such consultation necessary.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto execute this Agreement for the purposes stated above as of the date of the Award.
 
 
 
Coventry Health Care, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 


