FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20111028081152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 28, 2011, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release regarding its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011, and its financial condition as of the period then ended. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.  The exhibit is not deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or incorporated by reference in the Companys filings under the Exchange Act or Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
                   
BETHESDA, Md. (October 28, 2011) - Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) today reported consolidated operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.  Operating revenues totaled $3.0 billion for the quarter with net earnings of $122.7 million, or earnings per diluted share (EPS) of $0.84. These results include EPS of $0.02 from the Medicare Advantage Private Fee-for-Service (MA-PFFS) product.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, total operating revenues were $9.1 billion with net earnings of $457.4 million, or $3.09 EPS.  These results include EPS of $0.13 from the MA-PFFS product and EPS of $0.68 related to the definitive settlement agreement associated with the provider class action litigation in Louisiana which was approved by the court during the second quarter. Excluding the impact of MA-PFFS results and the provider class action litigation adjustment, adjusted net earnings were $337.4 million, or $2.28 EPS.
(1)
(2)
I am pleased with the progress the Company has made and the performance of the businesses, such that we can increase 2011 full year guidance for the third time this year, said Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry.  More importantly, I am optimistic about the growth opportunities for our Company. Recent examples include the pending Family Health Partners acquisition, the Kentucky Medicaid contract, and our new preferred network Part D product which was approved for 2012.
 
Consolidated Highlights
 
 
Page 1 of 9
 
Selected Third Quarter 2011 Highlights
 
Page 2 of 9
 
2011 Full Year Guidance
 
 
 
Page 3 of 9
 
Mr. Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry, will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday, October 28, 2011.  To listen to the call, dial toll-free at 888-208-1812 or, for international callers, 719-457-2713. Callers will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.  The conference call will also be webcast from Coventrys Investor Relations site at .  Coventry asks participants on both the call and webcast to review and be familiar with its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A replay of the call will be available for one week at (888) 203-1112 or, for international callers, (719) 457-0820. The access code is 9406396.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance, including the guidance herein. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and Coventrys subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Among the factors that may materially affect Coventrys business, operations or financial condition are the ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs; the ability to increase premiums to offset increases in the Companys health care costs; general economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; changes in laws or regulations or government investigations; potential state guaranty fund assessments; changes in government funding and various other risks associated with our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; a reduction in the number of members in the Companys health plans; the Companys ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and the Companys ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations; an ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain premium rates; the non-renewal or termination of the Companys government contracts, or unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies; failure of the Companys independent agents and brokers to continue to market its products to employers; a failure to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers that could result in higher medical costs and a decrease in membership; negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally or the Company in particular; a failure to effectively protect, maintain, and develop our information technology systems; periodic reviews, audits and investigations under the Companys contracts with federal and state government agencies; litigation, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories; volatility in the Companys stock price and trading volume; the Companys indebtedness, which imposes certain restrictions on its business and operations; an inability to generate sufficient cash to service the Companys indebtedness; a substantial amount of Coventrys cash flow is generated by its regulated subsidiaries; the Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, which could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of the Company that its stockholders may consider favorable; and an impairment of the Companys intangible assets.  Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Coventry Health Care () is a diversified national managed healthcare company based in Bethesda, Maryland, operating health plans, insurance companies, network rental and workers compensation services companies.  Coventry provides a full range of risk and fee-based managed care products and services to a broad cross section of individuals, employer and government-funded groups, government agencies, and other insurance carriers and administrators.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
Page 5 of 9
 
 
 
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
Page 7 of 9
 
 
Page 8 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 9 


