FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20110622150252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Precommencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Precommencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1  REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a new $750,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2011 (the "Credit Agreement") with the banks, financial institutions and other lenders and issuers of letters of credit from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association as Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agents and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners. The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $750,000,000 with the Company having the ability to request an increase in the facility up to an amount not to exceed $1,000,000,000. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are general unsecured obligations of the Company.
     Advances under the Credit Agreement bear interest at (1) a rate per annum equal to the Administrative Agent's base rate (the "Base Rate") or (2) the one-, two-, three-, six-, nine-, or twelve-month rate per annum for Eurodollar deposits (the "Eurodollar Rate") plus an applicable margin, as selected by the Company. The applicable margin for Eurodollar Rate advances depends on the Company's debt ratings and varies from 1.050% to 1.850%.
     The credit facility provides for a $100,000,000 subfacility for letters of credit. Letter of credit fees are payable in respect of outstanding letters of credit at a rate per annum equal to the applicable margin for Eurodollar Rate advances in effect from time to time.
     Commitment fees on the credit facility are payable regardless of usage at rates per annum ranging from 0.200% to 0.400%, depending on the Company's debt ratings.
     The Credit Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, covenants that restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to create or permit liens on assets, make accounting changes other than as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles, dispose of substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company or enter into new unrelated lines of business. The Credit Agreement also includes covenants that restrict the ability of the Company to engage in mergers or consolidations where the Company is not the surviving corporation and that restrict the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to incur indebtedness and guarantee obligations. The Credit Agreement also requires compliance with a maximum leverage ratio test.
     If an event of default under the credit facility shall occur and be continuing, the commitments under the credit facility may be terminated and the principal amount outstanding under the credit facility, together with all accrued unpaid interest and other amounts owing under the Credit Agreement and related loan documents, may be declared immediately due and payable. The Company also would be required to cash-collateralize any letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility.
     Extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement will be used for general corporate purposes.
     The description of the Credit Agreement set forth in this Form 8-K is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 1.02  Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
     Effective June 22, 2011, the Company terminated its Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Terminated Credit Agreement") with the lenders named therein, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., Lehman Brothers Commercial Bank and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners. The Terminated Credit Agreement was set to expire July 11, 2012.
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
     Item 1.01 is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03 to the extent it describes the creation of a direct financial obligation.
SECTION 8  OTHER EVENTS
Item 8.01 Other Events
     On June 22, 2011, the Company issued a press release regarding the entry into the new Credit Agreement. The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
          , dated as of June 22, 2011 (this ""), among COVENTRY HEALTH CARE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") and issuers of letters of credit (the "") listed on hereto, and their successors and permitted assigns, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined).
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Borrower
Initial Lenders
Initial Issuing Banks
Schedule I
JPMCB
Agent
          The parties hereto agree as follows:
          SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Defined Terms
          "" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Advance).
Advance
Type
          "" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or executive officer of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 10% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
          "" means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at JPMCB at its office at 10 South Dearborn, Floor 07, Chicago, IL 60603-2003, Attention: Joyce King.
Agent's Account
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Anniversary Date
          "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
          "" means, as of any date, (a) with respect to Base Rate Advances, one percent per annum less than the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Rate Advances as of such date, but in no event less than zero, and (b) with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
 
          "" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
          "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
          "" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of hereto.
Assignment and Acceptance
Exhibit C
 
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assuming Lender
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
          "" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing); , , that, with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Letter of Credit Agreement related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
Available Amount
provided
however
          "" means, with respect to any Person, when such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment; that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
provided
          "" means, for any date, a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to (a) the highest of (i) the rate of interest announced publicly by JPMCB as its prime rate in effect at its office located at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, from time to time, (ii) 1/2 of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate and (iii) one percent per annum above the Eurodollar Rate for a one-month interest period as in effect on the date of determination (b) the Applicable Margin.
Base Rate
plus
          "" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
          "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Board
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.08.
Borrower Information
          "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01(a).
Borrowing
          "" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
 
          "" means, as to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, to the extent such obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
          "" means to deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, or to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Agent, for the benefit of one or more of the Issuing Banks or Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Exposure, cash or deposit account balances, pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and each applicable Issuing Bank. "" shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing and shall include the proceeds of such cash collateral and other credit support.
Cash Collateralize
Cash Collateral
          "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
provided
          "" means a Revolving Credit Commitment or a Letter of Credit Commitment.
Commitment
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Commitment Date
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Commitment Increase
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(b).
Communications
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Consent Date
          "" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
          "" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period , without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Debt (including the Advances), (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs, and non-cash write-offs and impairment charges with respect thereto, (e) non-cash stock-based compensation expense and (f) any extraordinary or
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
 
non-recurring expenses or losses (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), and , to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (i) any extraordinary or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) and (ii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period (other than any such non-cash item to the extent that it will result in the receipt of cash payments in any future period). For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (each, a "") with respect to any determination of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, (i) if at any time during such Reference Period the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall have made any Material Disposition (as defined below), the Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if positive) attributable to the property that is the subject of such Material Disposition for such Reference Period or increased by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if negative) attributable thereto for such Reference Period and (ii) if during such Reference Period the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall have made a Material Acquisition (as defined below), Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be calculated after giving effect thereto as if such Material Acquisition occurred on the first day of such Reference Period. As used in this definition, "" means any acquisition of property or series of related acquisitions of property that (a) constitutes assets comprising all or substantially all of an operating unit of a business or results in a Person becoming a Subsidiary of the Borrower and (b) involves the payment of consideration by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000; and "" means any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of property or series of related sales, leases, transfers or other dispositions of property that yields gross proceeds to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000.
minus
Reference Period
pro forma
Material Acquisition
Material Disposition
          "" means, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
          "" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that there shall be excluded (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower or is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Borrower) in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in the form of dividends or other distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of the Borrower to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of any contractual obligation (other than under this Agreement or the Notes) or (other than in the case of any such Subsidiary that is an HMO Subsidiary or an Insurance Subsidiary) requirement of law applicable to such Subsidiary.
Consolidated Net Income
provided
          "" means, at any date, the consolidated shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis as of such date.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
          "" means, at any date, the aggregate principal amount of all Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
          "", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
          "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) all obligations of such Person, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar arrangements, (g) the liquidation value of all mandatorily redeemable preferred capital stock of such Person, (h) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above, (i) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation, and (j) for the purposes of Section 6.01(d) only, all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements. The Debt of any Person shall include the Debt of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Debt expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Debt
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01(e).
Debtor Relief Law
          "" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
          "" means, subject to Section 2.20(b), any Lender that (a) has failed to (i) fund all or any portion of its Advances within two Business Days of the date such Advances were required to be funded hereunder unless such Lender notifies the Agent and the Borrower in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding (each of which conditions precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing) has not been satisfied, or (ii) pay to the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder (including in respect of its participation in Letters of Credit) within two Business Days of the date when due, (b) has notified the Borrower, the Agent or any Issuing Bank in writing that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, or has made a public statement to that effect (unless such writing or public statement relates to such Lender's obligation to fund an Advance hereunder and states that such position is based on such Lender's
Defaulting Lender
 
good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (which condition precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing or public statement) cannot be satisfied), (c) has failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Agent or the Borrower, to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Borrower that it will comply (and is financially able to comply) with its prospective funding obligations hereunder ( that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon receipt of such written confirmation by the Agent and the Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and the Borrower) or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event. Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under clauses (a) through (d) above shall be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.20(b)) upon delivery of written notice of such determination to the Borrower, each Issuing Bank and each Lender.
provided
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01(f).
Disclosed Litigation
          "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto or in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
Schedule I
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
          "" means (i) a Lender; (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender; (iii) an Approved Fund; and (iv) any other Person approved by the Agent and each Issuing Bank (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time any assignment is effected in accordance with Section 8.07, the Borrower (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within five Business Days after having received notice thereof. Neither (x) the Borrower or an Affiliate of the Borrower nor (y) any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (y), shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
          "" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment or natural resources, including those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
          "" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
          "" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) the adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA; or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
ERISA Event
          "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
          "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" opposite its name on hereto or in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
Schedule I
          "" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Screen (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period in an amount equal to the amount of such Eurodollar Rate Advance and for a period comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount equal to the amount of such Eurodollar Rate Advance and for a period comparable to
Eurodollar Rate
 
such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period. If the Reuters LIBOR01 Screen (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, , , to the provisions of Section 2.08.
minus
subject
however
          "" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Eurodollar Rate Advance
          "" means, for any Interest Period for all Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing, the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Extending Commitments
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Extending Lender
          "" means the Revolving Credit Facility or the Letter of Credit Facility.
Facility
          "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum for each day during such period equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
          "" means Fitch Investor's Service, Inc.
Fitch
          "" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, with respect to any Issuing Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Ratable Share of the outstanding L/C Exposure with respect to the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank other than the L/C Exposure as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
GAAP
 
          "" means the government of the United States of America or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
          "" means, as to any Person (the ""), any obligation, including a reimbursement, counterindemnity or similar obligation, of the guaranteeing person that guarantees or in effect guarantees, or which is given to induce the creation of a separate obligation by another Person (including any bank under any letter of credit) that guarantees or in effect guarantees, any Debt, leases, dividends or other obligations (the "") of any other third Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including any obligation of the guaranteeing person, whether or not contingent, (i) to purchase any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, (ii) to advance or supply funds (1) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation or (2) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the owner of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof; , , that the term "Guarantee Obligation" shall not include endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee Obligation of any guaranteeing person shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee Obligation is made and (b) the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing person may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee Obligation, unless such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such guaranteeing person may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Guarantee Obligation shall be such guaranteeing person's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the Borrower in good faith.
Guarantee Obligation
guaranteeing person
primary obligations
primary obligor
provided
however
          "" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
          "" means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
          "" means, collectively, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations thereunder, all as the same may be in effect from time to time. References to sections of HIPAA shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
HIPAA
 
          "" means the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, Title XIII of Division A and Title IV of Division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), Pub. L. 111-5, Feb. 17, 2009, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations thereunder, all as the same may be in effect from time to time. References to sections of the HITECH Act shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
HITECH Act
          "" means any Person licensed as a health maintenance organization, managed care organization or similar organization by a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over such Person.
HMO
          "" means all requirements of law applicable to any HMO Subsidiary (other than provisions of the organizational or governing documents of such HMO Subsidiary) under federal or state law and any regulations, orders and directives promulgated or issued pursuant to the foregoing, including regulations regarding total statutory capital levels.
HMO Regulations
          "" means any Governmental Authority charged with administration, oversight or enforcement of an HMO Regulation, whether primarily, secondarily or jointly.
HMO Regulator
          "" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is an HMO.
HMO Subsidiary
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Increase Date
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Increasing and Extending Lender
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Increasing Lender
          "" means Taxes that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, the Loan Documents.
Indemnified Taxes
          "" means (a) the Indenture, dated as of January 28, 2005, between the Borrower and U.S. Bank National Association, successor to Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee, in connection with the issuance of the Borrower's 5% senior notes due 2012, (b) the Indenture, dated as of January 28, 2005, between the Borrower and U.S. Bank National Association, successor to Wachovia Bank, National Association, as trustee, in connection with the issuance of the Borrower's 6% senior notes due 2015, and (c) the Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2007, between the Borrower and The Bank of New York, as trustee, in connection with the issuance of the Borrower's 5.95% senior notes due 2017, as amended by the first supplemental indenture, dated as of August 27, 2007, between the Borrower and Union Bank, National Association (successor to Union Bank of California, N.A.), as trustee, in connection with the issuance of the Borrower's 6.30% senior notes due 2014, and as amended by the second supplemental indenture, dated as of June 7, 2011, between the Borrower and Union Bank, National Association, as trustee, in connection with the issuance of the Borrower's 5.450% senior notes due 2021.
Indentures
7/8
1/8
 
          "" means a (a) natural person or (b) holding company, investment vehicle or trust for, or owned and operated for the primary benefit of, a natural person or relative(s) thereof; that, such holding company, investment vehicle or trust shall not constitute an Ineligible Institution if it (x) has not been established for the primary purpose of acquiring any Advances or Commitments, (y) is managed by a professional advisor, who is not such natural person or a relative thereof, having significant experience in the business of making or purchasing commercial loans, and (z) has assets greater than $25,000,000 and a significant part of its activities consist of making or purchasing commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business; , , that, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, any Person (other than a Lender) shall be an Ineligible Institution if, after giving effect to any proposed assignment to such Person, such Person would hold more than 25% of the then outstanding Revolving Credit Exposure or Commitments, as the case may be.
Ineligible Institution
provided
provided
further
          "" means the information memorandum dated June, 2011 used by the Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
          "" means all requirements of law applicable to any Insurance Subsidiary (other than provisions of the organizational or governing documents of such Insurance Subsidiary) under federal or state law and any regulations, orders and directives promulgated or issued pursuant to the foregoing, including regulations regarding total statutory capital levels.
Insurance Regulations
          "" means any Governmental Authority charged with the administration, oversight or enforcement of an Insurance Regulation, whether primarily, secondarily or jointly.
Insurance Regulator
          "" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is doing business or is licensed under Insurance Regulations to offer and sell health, dental and life insurance (or required to so qualify or to be so licensed).
Insurance Subsidiary
          "" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of a Base Rate Advance into such Eurodollar Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, and subject to clause (c) of this definition, nine or twelve months, as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
          (a) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advance under a Facility that ends after any scheduled principal repayment installment date for such Facility unless, after giving effect to such selection, the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Advances and of Eurodollar Rate Advances having Interest Periods that end on or prior to such principal repayment installment date for such Facility shall
 
be at least equal to the aggregate principal amount of Advances under such Facility due and payable on or prior to such date;
          (b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
          (c) the Borrower shall not be entitled to select an Interest Period having duration of nine or twelve months unless, by 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the second Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, each Lender has notified the Agent of such Lender's approval of such Interest Period (the failure of any Lender to so respond by such time being deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as an objection by such Lender to the requested duration of such Interest Period); that, if any or all of the Lenders object to the requested duration of such Interest Period, the duration of such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, as specified by the Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or notice of Conversion as the desired alternative to an Interest Period of nine or twelve months;
provided
          (d) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day; , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
          (e) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
          "" means an Initial Issuing Bank or any Lender designated as an "Issuing Bank" hereunder by written notice to such effect to the Agent by the Borrower and such Lender so long as such Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Issuing Bank and notifies the Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Agent in the Register), and their respective successors as Issuing Banks hereunder.
Issuing Bank
          "" means an interest-bearing cash collateral account to be established and maintained by the Agent, over which the Agent shall have sole dominion and control, upon terms as may be satisfactory to the Agent.
L/C Cash Collateral Account
          "" means a payment made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
L/C Disbursement
          "" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time (b) the aggregate amount of all L/C
L/C Exposure
plus
 
Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time (through Advances or otherwise). The L/C Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Ratable Share of the total L/C Exposure at such time.
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06(b)(i).
L/C Related Documents
          "" means the Initial Lenders, each Issuing Bank, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18, each New Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.19 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.07.
Lenders
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Letter of Credit
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Agreement
          "" means, with respect to each Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower and their specified Subsidiaries in (a) the amount set forth opposite such Issuing Bank's name on hereto or (b) in the notice designating such Issuing Bank as an Issuing Bank hereunder, in each case as such amount may be reduced prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05 and from time to time by the Available Amount of any outstanding Letter of Credit issued by any other Issuing Bank.
Letter of Credit Commitment
Schedule I
          "" means, at any time, an amount equal to the lesser of (a) the aggregate amount of the Issuing Banks' Letter of Credit Commitments at such time and (b) $100,000,000, as such amount may be reduced at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05.
Letter of Credit Facility
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(b).
Letter of Credit Fee
          "" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor and any encumbrance on title to real property that secures debt.
Lien
          "" means, collectively, this Agreement, the Notes and each certificate, agreement or document executed by the Borrower and delivered to the Agent or any Lender in connection with the foregoing.
Loan Documents
          "" means any material adverse change in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
          "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or the Lenders under the Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means any HMO Subsidiary that is also a Material Subsidiary.
Material HMO Subsidiary
 
          "" means any Insurance Subsidiary that is also a Material Subsidiary.
Material Insurance Subsidiary
          "" means, at any date, a Subsidiary of the Borrower having (a) assets in an amount equal to at least 5% of the amount of total Consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Borrower for which financial statements of the Borrower have been furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(i) or (b) revenues in an amount equal to at least 5% of the amount of total Consolidated revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the twelve-month period ending on such date.
Material Subsidiary
          "" means, collectively, (a) all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XIX of the Social Security Act or elsewhere) affecting the medical assistance program established by said Title XIX, (b) all applicable provisions of all federal rules promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (a) above and all federal administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all governmental authorities having the force of law promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (a) above, (c) all state statutes and plans for medical assistance enacted in connection with the statutes and provisions described in clauses (a) and (b) above and (d) all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals and orders of all governmental authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (c) above and all state administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all governmental authorities having the force of law promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (b) above.
Medicaid Regulations
          "" means, at any time, with respect to Cash Collateral consisting of cash or deposit account balances, an amount equal to 102% of the Fronting Exposure of all Issuing Banks with respect to Letters of Credit issued and outstanding at such time.
Minimum Collateral Amount
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
          "" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
          "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
          "" means, for purposes of Section 2.19, an Assignee, approved by the Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), that the Borrower has requested to become a Lender hereunder pursuant to Section 2.19(c).
New Lenders
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
New Termination Date
 
          "" means, at any time, each Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender at such time.
Non-Defaulting Lender
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Non-Extending Lender
          "" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of a Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16 in substantially the form of hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender.
Note
Exhibit A
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(c).
Notice
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance
          "" means the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(b).
Other Taxes
          "" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001.
Patriot Act
          "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
          "" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
          "" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(b).
Platform
          "" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of July 11, 2007, by and among the Borrower, the Initial Lenders, the Initial Issuing Banks, certain other lenders party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as Agent (as such terms are defined therein).
Prior Facility
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Proposed Additional Commitment
          "" means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit-enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower or, if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency (but not lower than the rating, if any, assigned to the Facilities by such agency). For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P, Moody's and Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the
Public Debt Rating
 
available rating; (b) if none of S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 5 under the definition of "" or "", as the case may be; (c) if the ratings established by S&P, Moody's and Fitch shall each fall within different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the middle rating; (d) if the ratings established by S&P, Moody's and Fitch shall fall within different levels and two of such ratings fall within the same level (the ""), the Applicable Margin and Applicable Percentage shall be based on the majority level; (e) if any rating established by S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (f) if S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference herein to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be.
Applicable Margin
Applicable Percentage
majority level
          "" of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of (a) a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time and the denominator of which is the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments at such time and (b) such amount.
Ratable Share
          "" means JPMCB, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A.
Reference Banks
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(e).
Register
          "" means at any time Lenders owed or holding at least a majority in interest of the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of the Advances outstanding at such time, (b) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (c) the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Commitments at such time. For purposes of this definition, the Available Amount of each Letter of Credit shall be considered to be owed to the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments.
Required Lenders
          "" means the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President of Finance or Treasurer of the Borrower, but in any event, with respect to financial matters, the Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President of Finance or Treasurer of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
          "" means, as to any Lender, (a) the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereto as such Lender's "Revolving Credit Commitment", (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the amount set forth as such Lender's "Revolving Credit Commitment" in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, the amount set forth as such Lender's "Revolving Credit Commitment" in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(e), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05. The aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments on the Effective Date is $750,000,000.
Revolving Credit Commitment
Schedule I
 
          "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of all Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and its L/C Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
          "" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Lenders' Revolving Credit Commitments at such time.
Revolving Credit Facility
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
          "" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
          "" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries. Unless otherwise qualified, all references in this Agreement to a "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(a).
Taxes
          "" means, for any Lender, the earlier of (a) June 22, 2016, subject to extension as provided in Section 2.19, and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01.
Termination Date
          "" means, with respect to any Issuing Bank, the obligation of such Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its specified Subsidiaries in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the amount of its Letter of Credit Commitment over (b) the aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Unissued Letter of Credit Commitment
          "" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment at such time (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, (ii) such Lender's Ratable Share of the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time.
Unused Revolving Credit Commitment
minus
plus
          "" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies,
Voting Stock
 
entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
          SECTION 1.02. . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
Terms Generally
The definitions of terms herein and therein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein); (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns; (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof; (d) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear; and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
          SECTION 1.03. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
          SECTION 1.04. . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) (""). In the event that any Accounting Change (as defined below) shall occur and such change results in a change in the method of calculation of financial covenants, standards or terms in this Agreement, then the Borrower and the Agent agree to enter into good faith negotiations in order to amend such provisions of this Agreement so as to reflect equitably such Accounting Changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating the Borrower's financial condition shall be the same after such Accounting Changes as if such Accounting Changes had not been made. Until such time as such an amendment shall have been executed and delivered by the Borrower, the Agent and the Required Lenders, all financial covenants, standards and terms in this Agreement shall continue to be calculated or construed as if such Accounting Changes had not occurred. "" refers to changes in accounting principles required by the promulgation of any rule, regulation, pronouncement or opinion by the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants or, if applicable, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Accounting Terms
GAAP
Accounting Changes
 
          SECTION 2.01. . (a) . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an amount not to exceed at any time such Lender's Unused Revolving Credit Commitment. Each Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Revolving Credit Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a).
The Advances and Letters of Credit
Advances
          (b) . Each Issuing Bank agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to issue letters of credit (each, a "") for the support of the Borrower's or its Subsidiaries' obligations from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the Termination Date in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit issued by each Issuing Bank not to exceed at any time the lesser of (x) the Letter of Credit Facility at such time and (y) such Issuing Bank's Letter of Credit Commitment at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the aggregate Unused Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders at such time. Each Letter of Credit shall be for an amount of $50,000 or more. No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date (including all rights of the Borrower or the beneficiary to require renewal) later than the earlier of (x) the date that is one year after the date of issuance thereof; that any Letter of Credit which provides for automatic one-year extension(s) of such expiration date shall be deemed to comply with the foregoing requirement if the Issuing Bank has the unconditional right to prevent any such automatic extension from taking place and each Issuing Bank hereby agrees to exercise such right to the extent necessary to prevent any such Letter of Credit from being outstanding after the Termination Date or (y) five Business Days prior to the Termination Date. Within the limits referred to above, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b), repay any Advances resulting from drawings thereunder pursuant to Section 2.03(c) and request the issuance of additional Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(b). Each letter of credit listed on shall be deemed to constitute a Letter of Credit issued hereunder, and each Lender or each Affiliate of a Lender that is an issuer of such a Letter of Credit shall, for purposes of Section 2.03, be deemed to be an Issuing Bank for each such letter of credit; that any renewal or replacement of any such letter of credit shall be issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit
provided
Schedule 2.01(b)
provided
          SECTION 2.02. . (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.03(c), each Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances or (y) 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give each Lender prompt notice
Making the Advances
 
thereof by telecopier or other form of electronic communication satisfactory to the Agent. Each such notice of a Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing or by telecopier or other form of electronic communication satisfactory to the Agent in substantially the form of hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each Lender shall, before 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02.
Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit B
          (b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurodollar Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Borrowing is less than $10,000,000 or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurodollar Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than seven separate Borrowings.
          (c) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
          (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing under a Facility under which such Lender has a Commitment that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02, and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
          (e) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its
 
Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.03. . (a) . (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank may agree), by the Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Agent prompt notice thereof by telecopier or other form of electronic communication satisfactory to the Agent. Each such notice of issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing or by telecopier or other form of electronic communication satisfactory to the Issuing Bank, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit (which shall not be later than the earlier of five Business Days prior to the Termination Date or one year after the date of issuance thereof; that any Letter of Credit which provides for automatic one-year extension(s) of such expiration date shall be deemed to comply with the foregoing requirement if the Issuing Bank has the unconditional right to prevent any such automatic extension from taking place and each Issuing Bank hereby agrees to exercise such right to the extent necessary to prevent any such Letter of Credit from being outstanding after the Termination Date), (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (E) form of such Letter of Credit, and shall be accompanied by such customary application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank may specify to the Borrower for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a ""). If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its sole discretion, such Issuing Bank will, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower at its office referred to in Section 8.02 or as otherwise agreed with the Borrower in connection with such issuance. In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance
provided
Letter of Credit Agreement
          (b) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each time such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment is amended
Participations
 
pursuant to the operation of Section 2.18, by an assignment in accordance with Section 8.07 or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement.
          (c) . The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by such Issuing Bank of an Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the amount of such draft. Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice (and such Issuing Bank will use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such notice within one Business Day) to the Borrower and the Agent of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it. Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Agent, each Lender shall pay to the Agent such Lender's Ratable Share of such outstanding Advance, by making available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank, by deposit to the Agent's Account, in same day funds, an amount equal to the portion of the outstanding principal amount of such Advance to be funded by such Lender. Promptly after receipt thereof, the Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank. Each Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of such outstanding Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time. If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Advance available to the Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for its account or the account of such Issuing Bank, as applicable. If such Lender shall pay to the Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute an Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such Business Day.
Drawing and Reimbursement
provided
          (d) . Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (i) to the Agent on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by it during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit and (ii) to the Agent and each Lender on the first Business Day of each calendar quarter a written report setting forth the average daily aggregate Available Amount during the preceding calendar quarter of all Letters of Credit issued by it.
Letter of Credit Reports
          (e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
          (f) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the Issuing Bank and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, (i) the rules of the International Standby Practices (1998 Revision) International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 590 shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and
Applicability of ISP and UCP
 
Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce at the time of issuance, shall apply to each commercial Letter of Credit.
          (g) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Borrower and that the Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
          SECTION 2.04. . (a) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee on the average daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment (whether used or unused) from the date hereof in the case of each Initial Lender and from the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing June 30, 2011, and on the Termination Date.
Fees
Facility Fee
          (b) . (i) The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commission (the "") on such Lender's Ratable Share of the average daily aggregate Available Amount of all Letters of Credit outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Rate Advances in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing June 30, 2011, and on the Termination Date, and after the Termination Date, payable upon demand; that the Applicable Margin shall increase by 2% upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default if the Borrower is required to pay default interest pursuant to Section 2.07(b).
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
provided
     (ii) The Borrower shall pay to each Issuing Bank for its own account such reasonable and customary fronting, issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees as may from time to time be agreed in writing between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank.
          (c) . The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as have been agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Agent's Fees
          SECTION 2.05. . (a) The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce ratably in part the Unused Revolving Credit Commitments or the Unissued Letter of Credit Commitments; that each partial reduction of a Facility (i) shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (ii) with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility, shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their Commitments.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
 
          (b) The Borrower may terminate the unused amount of the Commitment of any Lender that is a Defaulting Lender upon not less than five Business Days' prior notice to the Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof), and in such event the provisions of Section 2.20(a)(ii) will apply to all amounts thereafter paid by the Borrower for the account of such Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity or other amounts); that (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and (ii) such termination shall not be deemed to be a waiver or release of any claim the Borrower, the Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
provided
          SECTION 2.06. . (a) . The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the ratable account of the Lenders on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Advances then outstanding.
Repayment
Advances
          (b) . Without limiting Section 8.12 hereof, it is understood and agreed that the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement, any Letter of Credit Agreement and any other agreement or instrument relating to any Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including the following circumstances (it being understood that any such payment by the Borrower is without prejudice to, and does not constitute a waiver of, any rights the Borrower might have or might acquire as a result of the payment by any Lender of any draft or the reimbursement by the Borrower thereof):
Letter of Credit Reimbursements
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any Letter of Credit Agreement or any other agreement or instrument, in each case, relating thereto (all of the foregoing being, collectively, the "");
L/C Related Documents
     (ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the obligations of the Borrower in respect of any L/C Related Document or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the L/C Related Documents;
     (iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Bank, the Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with the transactions contemplated by the L/C Related Documents or any unrelated transaction;
     (iv) any statement or any other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
     (v) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
 
     (vi) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guarantee, for all or any of the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the L/C Related Documents; or
     (vii) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or a guarantor.
          SECTION 2.07. . (a) . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
     (i) . During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the Base Rate in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
     (ii) . During such periods as such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance plus (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Eurodollar Rate Advances
          (b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require the Borrower to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, as applicable, and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above; , , that following acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
          SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurodollar Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall
Interest Rate Determination
 
give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii).
          (b) If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances under any Facility, the Lenders owed at least 51% of the aggregate principal amount thereof notify the Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended and such Lenders have determined that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and the Agent shall so notify the Borrower.
          (c) If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.
          (d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $10,000,000, such Advances shall automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.
          (e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended.
          (f) If the Reuters LIBOR01 Screen (or any successor page) is unavailable and fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any Eurodollar Rate Advances:
     (i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances;
     (ii) each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance); and
     (iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
 
          SECTION 2.09. . The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all or any portion of Advances of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type; , , that (a) any Conversion of Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, (b) any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b), (c) no Conversion of any Advances shall result in more separate Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b) and (d) each Conversion of Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing under any Facility shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their Commitments under such Facility. Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
Optional Conversion of Advances
provided
however
          SECTION 2.10. . The Borrower may, upon notice at least three Business Days prior to the date of such prepayment, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, and not later than 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c).
Prepayments of Advances
provided
however
          SECTION 2.11. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement (including any compulsory loan requirement, insurance charge or other assessment) against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate) or Issuing Bank; or
     (ii) impose on any Lender or Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Advances made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Advance (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Advance) or to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or
 
amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
          (b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Advances made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company would have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
          (c) A certificate of a Lender or Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 15 days after receipt thereof.
          (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; , , that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
          SECTION 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that any Change in Law makes it unlawful, or any Governmental Authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, (a) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that, before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to continue to fund or
Illegality
provided
however
 
maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
          SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder, irrespective of any right of counterclaim or set-off, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Agent at the Agent's Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest, fees or commissions ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.04(b)(ii), 2.11, 2.14, 2.20 or 8.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18, and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Payments and Computations
          (b) The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder or under the Note held by such Lender, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due.
          (c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of fees and Letter of Credit commissions shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest, fees or commissions are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be presumed correct for all purposes, absent manifest error.
          (d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest, fee or commission, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
 
          (e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
          SECTION 2.14. . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Agent hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13 or the applicable provisions of such other documents, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , in the case of each Lender and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise and excise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, imposed on such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) as a result of a present or former connection between such Lender or the Agent and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision thereof or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from such Lender or the Agent having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or any of the Notes) (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as ""). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note or any other documents to be delivered hereunder to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
          (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
          (c) The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including taxes of any kind imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.
 
          (d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment to the extent such a receipt is issued therefor, or other written proof of payment thereof that is reasonably satisfactory to the Agent. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes or any other documents to be delivered hereunder by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms "" and "" shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
United States
United States person
          (e) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide each of the Agent and the Borrower with two original Internal Revenue Service Forms W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes. If the form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such form; , , that, if at the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term "Taxes" shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.
provided
however
          (f) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form, certificate or other document described in Section 2.14(e) n if such failure is due to a Change in Law occurring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided, or if such form, certificate or other document otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure; , , that should a Lender
(other
tha
provided
however
 
become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form, certificate or other document required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
          (g) If the Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.14, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.14 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); that the Borrower, upon the request of the Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Agent or such Lender in the event the Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This paragraph shall not be construed to require the Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
provided
          (h) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
          SECTION 2.15. . If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14, 2.20 or 8.04(c)) in excess of its Ratable Share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that, if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's Ratable Share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered; , , that, so long as the maturity of the obligations under this Agreement and the Notes shall not have been accelerated, any excess payment received by any Lender shall be shared on a basis only with other Lenders. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
pro rata
 
          SECTION 2.16. . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Note in substantially the form of hereto, payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount equal to the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
Exhibit A
          (b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(e) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
          (c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima facie
provided
however
          SECTION 2.17. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) for refinancing of the Prior Facility and for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
          SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Borrower may, at any time prior to the Termination Date, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments be increased by an amount of at least $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments at any time exceed $1,000,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 shall have been satisfied.
Increase in the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
          (b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which
 
Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments (the ""). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Revolving Credit Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Revolving Credit Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
          (c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Borrower may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Revolving Credit Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
provided
however
          (d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18(c) (each such Eligible Assignee, an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Revolving Credit Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.18(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
Assuming Lender
provided
however
     (i) (A) a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower attaching the Borrower's certificate of incorporation and by-laws; (B) certified copies of resolutions of the board of directors of the Borrower or the executive committee of such board approving the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement, (C) a good standing certificate of the Borrower issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and (D) opinions of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the forms of and hereto;
Exhibits D-1
D-2
     (ii) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Assuming Lender, the Agent and the Borrower; and
Assumption Agreement
     (iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Revolving Credit Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent.
 
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.18(d) and in Section 3.02, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including each Assuming Lender) and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier or other form of electronic communication satisfactory to the Agent, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date.
          (e) On the Increase Date, if any Advances are then outstanding, the Borrower shall borrow from all or certain of the Lenders and/or (subject to compliance by the Borrower with Section 8.04(c)) prepay Advances of all or certain of the Lenders such that, after giving effect thereto, the Advances (including the Types and Interest Periods thereof) shall be held by the Lenders (including for such purposes the Increasing Lenders and the Assuming Lenders) ratably in accordance with their respective Revolving Credit Commitments. On and after each Increase Date, the Ratable Share of each Lender's participation in Letters of Credit and Advances from draws under Letters of Credit shall be calculated after giving effect to each such Commitment Increase.
          SECTION 2.19. .
Extension of Termination Date
          (a) The Borrower may, by notice to the Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders) not less than 45 days and not more than 90 days prior to each of the first and second anniversaries of the Effective Date (each anniversary, an ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Termination Date to the date (the "") that is one year after the then Termination Date. Each Lender, acting in its sole discretion, shall, by written notice to the Agent given no later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the relevant Anniversary Date ( that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Consent Date shall be the next succeeding Business Day), advise the Agent as to:
Anniversary Date
New Termination Date
Consent Date
provided
     (i) whether such Lender agrees to such extension of its Termination Date (each Lender so agreeing to such extension being an ""); and
Extending Lender
     (ii) only if such Lender is an Extending Lender, whether such Lender also irrevocably offers to increase the amount of its Revolving Credit Commitment in connection with the replacement of one or more Non-Extending Lenders (each Lender so offering to increase its Revolving Credit Commitment being an "" as well as an Extending Lender) and, if so, the amount of the additional Commitment such Lender so irrevocably offers to assume hereunder (such Lender's "").
Increasing and Extending Lender
Proposed Additional Commitment
Each Lender that determines not to extend its Termination Date (a "") shall notify the Agent (which shall notify the Lenders) of such fact promptly after such determination but in any event no later than the Consent Date, and any Lender that does not advise the Agent in writing on or before the Consent Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender and (without limiting the Borrower's rights under Section 2.19(c)) shall have no liability to the Borrower in connection therewith. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender so to agree. The Agent shall notify the
Non-Extending Lender
 
Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section 2.19(a) no later than the date 15 days prior to the relevant Anniversary Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
     (b) (i) If all of the Lenders are Extending Lenders, then, effective as of the Consent Date, the Termination Date of each Lender shall be extended to the New Termination Date as provided in Section 2.19(b)(ii)(1), and the respective Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders will not be subject to change at such Consent Date pursuant to this Section 2.19.
     (ii) If and only if the sum of (x) the aggregate amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Extending Lenders (that are not Increasing and Extending Lenders) (y) the aggregate amount of the Proposed Additional Commitments of the Increasing and Extending Lenders (such sum, the "") shall be equal to at least 50% of the then total Revolving Credit Commitments, then:
plus
Extending Commitments
     (1) effective as of the Consent Date, the Termination Date of each Extending Lender shall be extended to the New Termination Date;
     (2) the Borrower shall (so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing) have the right, but not the obligation, during the period commencing on the Consent Date and ending on the immediately succeeding Anniversary Date to replace each Non-Extending Lender as a party to this Agreement in accordance with Section 2.19(c); and
     (3) the Agent shall notify the Issuing Banks of the New Termination Date and the Lenders whose Termination Dates are the New Termination Date, and each Issuing Bank, acting in its sole discretion, shall determine whether it shall elect to extend its Termination Date to the New Termination Date and shall so notify the Agent, at which time such Issuing Bank's obligation to issue Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.03 shall be extended to the date that is 30 days prior to the New Termination Date.
     (iii) If neither of the conditions specified in clause (i) or clause (ii) of this Section 2.19(b) is satisfied, then neither the Termination Date nor the Commitment of any Lender will change pursuant to this Section 2.19 on such Consent Date, and the Borrower will not have the right to take any of the actions specified in Section 2.19(b)(ii)(2).
          (c) Replacement by the Borrower of Non-Extending Lenders pursuant to Section 2.19(b)(ii)(2) shall be effected as follows (certain terms being used in this Section 2.19(c) having the meanings assigned to them in Section 2.19(d)) on the relevant Assignment Date:
     (i) the Assignors shall severally assign and transfer to the Assignees, and the Assignees shall severally purchase and assume from the Assignors, all of the Assignors' rights and obligations (including the Assignors' respective Revolving Credit Commitments) hereunder and under the Notes;
 
     (ii) each Assignee shall pay to the Agent, for account of the Assignors, an amount equal to such Assignee's Share of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advances then held by the Assignors; and
     (iii) the Borrower shall pay to the Agent, for account of the Assignors, all interest, fees and other amounts (other than principal of outstanding Advances) then due and owing to the Assignors by the Borrower hereunder (including payments due such Assignors, if any, under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04).
The assignments provided for in this Section 2.19(c) shall be effected on the relevant Assignment Date in accordance with Section 8.07 and pursuant to one or more Assignments and Acceptances. After giving effect to such assignments, each Assignee shall have a Revolving Credit Commitment hereunder (which, if such Assignee was a Lender hereunder immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment, shall be in addition to such Assignee's existing Revolving Credit Commitment) in an amount equal to the amount of its Assumed Commitment. Upon any such termination or assignment, each Assignor shall cease to be a party hereto to the extent of its assignment but shall continue to be obligated under Section 7.05 and be entitled to the benefits of Section 8.04, as well as to any fees and other amounts accrued for its account under Sections 2.04, 2.11 or 2.14 and not yet paid.
          (d) For purposes of this Section 2.19, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
          "" means the Commitments of Non-Extending Lenders to be replaced pursuant to Section 2.19(b)(ii)(2).
Assigned Commitments
          "" means, at any time, Increasing and Extending Lenders and, if the Assigned Commitments exceed the aggregate amount of the Proposed Additional Commitments, one or more New Lenders.
Assignees
          "" means the relevant Anniversary Date or such earlier date as shall be acceptable to the Borrower, the relevant Assignors, the relevant Assignees and the Agent.
Assignment Date
          "" means, at any time, the Non-Extending Lenders to be replaced by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19(b)(ii)(2).
Assignors
          The "" of each Assignee shall be determined as follows:
Assumed Commitment
          (a) If the aggregate amount of the Proposed Additional Commitments of all of the Increasing Lenders shall exceed the aggregate amount of the Assigned Commitments, then (i) the amount of the Assumed Commitment of each Increasing and Extending Lender shall be equal to (x) the aggregate amount of the Assigned Commitments (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is equal to such Increasing and Extending Lender's Commitment as then in effect and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of the Commitments of all Increasing and Extending Lenders as then in effect; and (ii) no New Lender shall be entitled to
multiplied
by
 
become a Lender hereunder pursuant to Section 2.19(c) (and, accordingly, each New Lender shall have an Assumed Commitment of zero).
          (b) If the aggregate amount of the Proposed Additional Commitments of all of the Increasing and Extending Lenders shall be less than or equal to the aggregate amount of the Assigned Commitments, then: (i) the amount of the Assumed Commitment of each Increasing and Extending Lender shall be equal to such Increasing and Extending Lender's Proposed Additional Commitment; and (ii) the excess, if any, of the aggregate amount of the Assigned Commitments the aggregate amount of the Proposed Additional Commitments shall be allocated among New Lenders in such a manner as the Borrower and the Agent may agree.
over
          (c) "" means, as to any Assignee, a fraction the numerator of which is equal to such Assignee's Assumed Commitment and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of the Assumed Commitments of all the Assignees.
Share
          SECTION 2.20. . (a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as such Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable law:
Defaulting Lenders
Defaulting Lender Adjustments
     (i) . The Revolving Credit Commitment of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to Section 8.01); that, if a particular amendment, waiver or modification requires consent of all Lenders, the vote of a Defaulting Lender shall not be included except where such amendment, waiver or modification specifically requires consent of such Lender or each Lender affected thereby.
Waivers and Amendments
provided
     (ii) . Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Agent for the account of such Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article III or otherwise) or received by the Agent from a Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 8.05 shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent hereunder; , to the payment on a basis of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to any Issuing Bank hereunder; , to Cash Collateralize the Issuing Banks' Fronting Exposure with respect to such Defaulting Lender in accordance with Section 2.21; , as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent; , if so determined by the Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a deposit account and released in order to (x) satisfy such Defaulting Lender's potential future funding obligations with respect to the Advances under this Agreement and (y) Cash Collateralize the Issuing Banks' future Fronting Exposure with respect to such Defaulting Lender with respect to future Letters of Credit issued under this Agreement, in accordance with Section 2.21; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or the Issuing
Defaulting Lender Waterfall
first
second
pro rata
third
fourth
fifth
pro rata
sixth
 
Banks as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender or the Issuing Banks against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Advances or L/C Disbursements in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share, and (y) such Advances were made or the related Letters of Credit were issued at a time when the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Advances of, and L/C Disbursements owed to, all Non-Defaulting Lenders on a basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Advances of, or L/C Disbursements owed to, such Defaulting Lender until such time as all Advances and funded and unfunded participations in the L/C Exposure are held by the Lenders in accordance with their Commitments under the applicable Facility without giving effect to Section 2.20(a)(iv). Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this Section 2.20(a)(ii) shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
seventh
eighth
provided
pro rata
pro rata
     (iii) . (A) Each Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive a Facility Fee for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender only to the extent allocable to the sum of (x) the outstanding principal amount of the Advances funded by it and (y) its Ratable Share of the stated amount of Letters of Credit for which it has provided Cash Collateral pursuant to Section 2.21.
Certain Fees
     (B) Each Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive the Letter of Credit Fee for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender only to the extent allocable to its Ratable Share of the stated amount of Letters of Credit for which it has provided Cash Collateral pursuant to Section 2.21.
     (C) With respect to any Facility Fee or Letter of Credit Fee not required to be paid to any Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (A) or (B) above, the Borrower shall (x) pay to each Non-Defaulting Lender that portion of any such fee otherwise payable to such Defaulting Lender with respect to such Defaulting Lender's participation in the L/C Exposure that has been reallocated to such Non-Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (iv) below, (y) pay to each Issuing Bank the amount of any such fee otherwise payable to such Defaulting Lender to the extent allocable to such Issuing Bank's Fronting Exposure to such Defaulting Lender and (z) not be required to pay the remaining amount of any such fee.
     (iv) . All or any part of such Defaulting Lender's participation in the L/C Exposure shall be reallocated among the Non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Ratable Share (calculated without regard to such Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment)
Reallocation of Participations to Reduce Fronting Exposure
 
but only to the extent that (x) the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 are satisfied at the time of such reallocation (and, unless the Borrower shall have otherwise notified the Agent at such time, the Borrower shall be deemed to have represented and warranted that such conditions are satisfied at such time), and (y) such reallocation does not cause the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure of any Non-Defaulting Lender to exceed such Non-Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment. No reallocation hereunder shall constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder against a Defaulting Lender arising from that Lender having become a Defaulting Lender, including any claim of a Non-Defaulting Lender as a result of such Non-Defaulting Lender's increased exposure following such reallocation.
     (v) . If the reallocation described in clause (iv) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrower shall, without prejudice to any right or remedy available to it hereunder or under law, Cash Collateralize the Issuing Banks' Fronting Exposure in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.21 for so long as such Fronting Exposure is outstanding.
Cash Collateral
          (b) . If the Borrower, the Agent and each Issuing Bank agree in writing that a Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any Cash Collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit to be held by the Lenders in accordance with their Commitments under the applicable Facility (without giving effect to Section 2.20(a)(iv)), whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender Cure
pro rata
provided
provided
further
          (c) . So long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue, extend, renew or increase any Letter of Credit unless it is satisfied that it will have no Fronting Exposure after giving effect thereto.
New Letters of Credit
          (d) . If an Issuing Bank has a good faith belief that any Lender has defaulted in fulfilling its obligations under one or more other agreements in which such Lender commits to extend credit, such Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit unless such Issuing Bank shall have entered into arrangements with the Borrower or such Lender, satisfactory to such Issuing Bank, to mitigate any risk to it in respect of such Lender hereunder.
Other Arrangements
          SECTION 2.21. . At any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, within one Business Day following the written request of the Agent or any Issuing Bank (with a copy to the Agent), the Borrower shall Cash Collateralize the Issuing Banks' Fronting
Cash Collateral
 
Exposure with respect to such Defaulting Lender in an amount (determined after giving effect to Section 2.20(a)(iv) and any Cash Collateral provided by such Defaulting Lender) not less than the Minimum Collateral Amount.
          (a) . The Borrower, and to the extent provided by any Defaulting Lender, such Defaulting Lender, hereby grants to the Agent, for the benefit of the Issuing Banks, and agrees to maintain, a first priority security interest in all such Cash Collateral as security for the Defaulting Lenders' obligation to fund participations in respect of the L/C Exposure, to be applied pursuant to clause (b) below. If at any time the Agent determines that the required Cash Collateral is subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Agent and the Issuing Banks as herein provided or that the total amount of such Cash Collateral is less than the Minimum Collateral Amount, the Borrower will, promptly upon demand by the Agent, pay or provide to the Agent additional Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to eliminate such deficiency (after giving effect to any Cash Collateral provided by the Defaulting Lender).
Grant of Security Interest
          (b) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Cash Collateral provided under this Section 2.21 or Section 2.20 in respect of the Letters of Credit shall be applied to the satisfaction of the Defaulting Lenders' obligation to fund participations in respect of the L/C Exposure (including, as to Cash Collateral provided by a Defaulting Lender, any interest accrued on such obligation) for which the Cash Collateral was so provided, prior to any other application of such property as may otherwise be provided for herein.
Application
          (c) . Cash Collateral (or the appropriate portion thereof) provided to reduce any Issuing Bank's Fronting Exposure shall no longer be required to be held as Cash Collateral pursuant to this Section 2.21 or Section 2.20 following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender), or (ii) the determination by the Agent and each Issuing Bank that there exists excess Cash Collateral; that, subject to Section 2.20, the Person providing Cash Collateral and each Issuing Bank may agree that Cash Collateral shall be held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or other obligations.
Termination of Requirement
provided
          SECTION 2.22. . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11 or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 8.07), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
Replacement of Lenders
provided
          (a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee (if any) specified in Section 8.07;
          (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and participations in the L/C Disbursements, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other
 
Loan Documents (including any amounts under Section 8.04(c)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
          (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
          (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable law.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
          SECTION 3.01. . Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
          (a) There shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since December 31, 2010.
          (b) All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and shall remain in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
          (c) The Borrower, through the Agent, shall have notified the Agent and each Lender in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
          (d) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent) that the Borrower is obligated to pay on or before the Effective Date pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
          (e) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true, and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
     (i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, excluding, however, representations and warranties made as of specified earlier date, which shall remain true and correct as of such earlier date; and
 
     (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
          (f) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent:
     (i) The Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16;
     (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the board of directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes;
     (iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign the Loan Documents and attaching the Borrower's certificate of incorporation and by-laws;
     (iv) A favorable opinion of Thomas C. Zielinski, General Counsel of the Borrower, and a favorable opinion of Bass, Berry & Sims PLC, counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of and hereto, respectively, and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request;
Exhibits D-1
D-2
     (v) A favorable opinion of Chadbourne & Parke LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent; and
     (vi) A good standing certificate of the Borrower issued by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
          (g) The Agent shall have received evidence to its satisfaction of the termination of the Prior Facility.
          SECTION 3.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing (other than pursuant to Section 2.03(c)), the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue, extend or renew a Letter of Credit and each Commitment Increase shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and, on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance or the applicable Increase Date:
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing, Letter of Credit Issuance and Commitment Increase
          (a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing, Notice of Issuance or request for Commitment Increase and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, such issuance or such Increase Date such statements are true):
     (i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of Borrowings or issuances, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof) are correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to
 
such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, excluding, however, representations and warranties made as of specified earlier date, which shall remain true and correct as of such earlier date; and
     (ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, such issuance, such Commitment Increase or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default.
          (b) The Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
          SECTION 3.03. . For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
          SECTION 4.01. . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
          (a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
          (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's certificate of incorporation or by-laws or (ii) law or any material contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
          (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it, except for those authorizations, approvals, actions, notices and filings listed on hereto, all of which have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and are in full force and effect.
Schedule 4.01(c)
          (d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and
 
binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (whether enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law).
          (e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of Ernst & Young LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at March 31, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the three months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at March 31, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the three months then ended, to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
          (f) There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the matters described on hereto (the "")) or (ii) purports to materially and adversely affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there has been no material adverse change in the status, or in the financial effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on hereto.
Schedule 4.01(f)
Disclosed Litigation
Schedule 4.01(f)
          (g) The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock in violation of any Regulation of the Board, including Regulations T, U or X.
          (h) The Borrower is not an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
          (i) Neither the Information Memorandum nor any other final written information, exhibit or report furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation and syndication of this Agreement or pursuant to the terms of this Agreement contained, as of the respective dates thereof, any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made therein, taken as a whole, not misleading. The projections and financial information contained in the material referenced above are based upon good faith estimates and assumptions believed
pro forma
 
by management of the Borrower to be reasonable at the time made, it being recognized by the Lenders that such financial information as it relates to future events is not to be viewed as fact and that actual results during the period or periods covered by such financial information may differ from the projected results set forth therein by a material amount.
          (j) Except as disclosed to the Agent by the Borrower in writing from time to time after the Closing Date, sets forth the name and jurisdiction of incorporation of each Subsidiary of the Borrower and, as to each such Subsidiary, the percentage of each class of capital stock owned by any the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and whether such Subsidiary is an HMO Subsidiary or an Insurance Subsidiary.
Schedule 4.01(j)
          (k) The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has filed or caused to be filed all Federal and other material tax returns that are required to be filed and has paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on said returns or on any assessments made against it or any of its property and all other taxes, fees or other charges imposed on it or any of its property by any Governmental Authority (other than any the amount or validity of which are currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which reserves in conformity with GAAP have been provided on the books of the Borrower or such Subsidiary). No tax Lien has been filed and, to the knowledge of the Borrower, no claim is being asserted, with respect to any such tax, fee or other charge.
          (l) The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include compliance with applicable requirements of ERISA, Environmental Laws, HIPAA, Medicaid Regulations, HMO Regulations, Insurance Regulations and the Patriot Act, except to the extent that failure to comply therewith could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 5.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
          (a) . Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include compliance with applicable requirements of ERISA, Environmental Laws, HIPAA, Medicaid Regulations, HMO Regulations, Insurance Regulations and the Patriot Act, except to the extent that failure to comply therewith could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
          (b) . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
 
such tax, assessment, charge or claim (i) that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained, unless and until any Lien resulting therefrom attaches to its property and becomes enforceable against its other creditors or (ii) if a failure to pay or discharge the same, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          (c) . Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, such insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
          (d) . (i) Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its organizational existence and (ii) take, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to take, all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business (including all licenses and certifications required pursuant to any HMO Regulations or Insurance Regulations, all certifications and authorizations necessary to ensure that each of the Borrower's HMO Subsidiaries and Insurance Subsidiaries is eligible for all reimbursements available under HMO Regulations and Insurance Regulations to the extent applicable to HMOs and insurance companies of their type and the products provided by them, and all material licenses, permits, authorizations and qualifications required under HMO Regulations and Insurance Regulations in connection with the ownership or operation of HMOs and insurance companies), except (x) in each case, as otherwise permitted by Section 5.02(b), (y) the Borrower may permit the dissolution and winding-up of any of its Subsidiaries if such Subsidiary has no material assets, engages in no material business and has no material activities other than activities related to the maintenance of its existence and good standing and (z) in the case of clause (i) above as to Subsidiaries and except in the case of clause (ii) above, to the extent that failure to do so could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
          (e) . At any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice and during normal business hours, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants. During the course of the aforementioned examinations, visits and discussions, representatives of the Agent and the Lenders may encounter individually identifiable healthcare information or other confidential information relating to healthcare patients (collectively, the ""). Unless otherwise required by law, the Agent and the Lenders, and their respective representatives, shall not disclose, compile, aggregate, remove from the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or record in any manner any Confidential Healthcare Information, and shall not require the Borrower or any of its
Visitation Rights
Confidential Healthcare Information
 
Subsidiaries to violate any laws, regulations or ordinances intended to protect the privacy rights of healthcare patients, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act.
          (f) . Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
          (g) . Except to the extent that a failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
          (h) . Conduct, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates (other than transactions that are not material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis and transactions between or among the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) on terms that are fair and reasonable and no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
Transactions with Affiliates
          (i) . Furnish to the Lenders through the Agent:
Reporting Requirements
     (i) as soon as available and in any event within 10 days after the date the Company is required to file its Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (taking into account any extension of such due date, whether obtained by filing the notification permitted by Rule 12b-25 or any successor provision or otherwise), the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by a Responsible Officer as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (it being understood that the Borrower's obligations under this clause (i) shall be satisfied in respect of any fiscal quarter by delivery to the Agent in accordance with Section 8.02(b) within the time specified above of the Borrower's quarterly report for such fiscal quarter on Form 10-Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission) and certificates of a Responsible Officer as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03; that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
     (ii) as soon as available and in any event within 10 days after the date the Company is required to file its Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (taking into account any extension of such due date, whether obtained by filing the
 
notification permitted by Rule 12b-25 or any successor provision or otherwise), a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (it being understood that the Borrower's obligations under this clause (ii) shall be satisfied in respect of any fiscal year by delivery to the Agent in accordance with Section 8.02(b) within the time specified above of the Borrower's annual report for such fiscal year on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission) and certificates of a Responsible Officer as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03; that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
     (iii) to the extent not otherwise provided in accordance with this Section 5.01(i), promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all quarterly and annual reports and proxy solicitations that the Borrower sends to any of its security holders, and copies of all reports on Form 8-K and registration statements for the public offering (other than pursuant to employee Plans) of securities that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
     (iv) notice of the occurrence of any Default;
     (v) [Reserved];
     (vi) notice of any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (A) in which the amount involved is $50,000,000 or more and not covered by insurance, (B) in which injunctive or similar relief is sought and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (C) that relates to this Agreement or any Note;
     (vii) notice of any ERISA Event;
     (viii) notice of any investigation by any Governmental Authority or the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority (including any HMO Regulator or Insurance Regulator) against or affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any adverse change in the status of the matters referred to in Section 4.01(f), that, individually or in the aggregate, has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect;
     (ix) notice of receipt by the Borrower, any Material HMO Subsidiary or any Material Insurance Subsidiary of any notice of loss of licensure, loss of participation
 
under any reimbursement program or loss of applicable health care license or certificate of authority, or loss of any permit, authorization, accreditation, or qualification or any notice relating to the threatened loss of any of the foregoing, from any Governmental Authority, HMO Regulator or Insurance Regulator that, individually or in the aggregate, has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect;
     (x) notice of receipt by the Borrower, any Material HMO Subsidiary or any Material Insurance Subsidiary of any other deficiency notice, compliance order or adverse reports issued by any Governmental Authority, HMO Regulator, Insurance Regulator or private insurance company pursuant to a provider agreement that, if not promptly complied with or cured, could reasonably be expected to result in the suspension or forfeiture of any license, certification or licensure necessary for such Material HMO Subsidiary or Material Insurance Subsidiary to carry on its business as then conducted or the termination of any insurance or reimbursement program available to any Material HMO Subsidiary or any Material Insurance Subsidiary and that, individually or in the aggregate, has had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect;
     (xi) notice of receipt by the Borrower, any Material HMO Subsidiary or any Material Insurance Subsidiary of any correspondence from any Governmental Authority, HMO Regulator or Insurance Regulator that asserts that the Borrower, any Material HMO Subsidiary or any Material Insurance Subsidiary is not in substantial compliance with any HMO Regulation or Insurance Regulation or that threatens the taking of any action against the Borrower, any Material HMO Subsidiary or any Material Insurance Subsidiary under any HMO Regulation or any Insurance Regulation and that, individually or in the aggregate, had had, or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect; and
     (xii) such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
          Each notice pursuant to clauses (iv) through (xii) above shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto.
          (j) . No part of the proceeds of any Advance will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. The proceeds of the Advances made under this Agreement may be used to repay the amounts outstanding under the Prior Facility and for general corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
          SECTION 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
          (a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or
Liens
 
hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
     (i) Liens for taxes not yet delinquent or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP;
provided
     (ii) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business that are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
     (iii) pledges or deposits in connection with the workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation;
     (iv) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
     (v) easements, reservations, rights-of-way, covenants, conditions, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business that, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount and that do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (vi) Liens in existence on the date hereof listed on , securing Debt permitted by Section 5.02(d)(iii); that no such Lien is spread to cover any additional property after the Effective Date and that the amount of Debt secured thereby is not increased;
Schedule 5.02(a)
provided
     (vii) Liens securing Debt of the Borrower, or Debt of a Subsidiary incurred pursuant to Section 5.02(d) (iv), (x) to finance the acquisition of fixed or capital assets or (y) pursuant to a sale and leaseback transaction; that (A) such Liens shall be created substantially simultaneously with the acquisition of such fixed or capital assets or such sale and leaseback transaction, as the case may be, (B) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Debt and (C) the amount of Debt secured thereby is not increased;
provided
     (viii) Liens created in connection with this Agreement to secure the Borrower's obligations hereunder;
     (ix) any interest or title of a lessor under any lease entered into by the Borrower or any other Subsidiary permitted by this Agreement and covering only the assets so leased;
     (x) Liens on property of a Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower and securing Debt of such Person permitted under
 
Section 5.02(d)(v); that any such Lien may not extend to any other property of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not a direct Subsidiary of such Person; , , that any such Lien shall not have been incurred in anticipation of or in connection with the transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which such Person became a Subsidiary of the Borrower;
provided
provided
further
     (xi) Liens in respect of any writ of execution, attachment, garnishment, judgment or judicial award, if (A) enforcement proceedings have not been commenced by the judgment creditor upon such judgment, and there has not been any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, has not been in effect, or (B) the underlying claim is fully covered by insurance and the insurer has been notified of, and has not disputed its responsibility to pay, such claim; and
     (xii) Liens not otherwise permitted by this Section so long as the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the obligations secured thereby does not at any one time exceed (as to the Borrower and all of its Subsidiaries) 10% of Consolidated Net Worth.
          (b) . Merge or consolidate with or into any Person except that (i) any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into the Borrower and (ii) any Person may merge into the Borrower so long as the Borrower is the surviving corporation; , in each case, that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would otherwise result therefrom.
Mergers, Etc
provided
          (c) . Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
          (d) . Permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Debt other than:
Subsidiary Debt
     (i) Debt owed to the Borrower or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower;
     (ii) Guarantee Obligations in respect of obligations of any Subsidiary of the Borrower;
     (iii) Debt existing on the Effective Date and described on hereto (the "") and any Debt extending the maturity of, or refunding or refinancing, in whole or in part, the Existing Debt; that the principal amount of such Existing Debt shall not be increased above the principal amount thereof outstanding immediately prior to such extension, refunding or refinancing, and the direct and contingent obligors therefor shall not be changed except as permitted by clause (ii) above, as a result of or in connection with such extension, refunding or refinancing;
Schedule 5.02(d)
Existing Debt
provided
     (iv) Debt (including Capital Lease Obligations) secured by Liens permitted by Section 5.02(a)(vii) in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $100,000,000 at any one time outstanding;
 
     (v) Debt of a Subsidiary of the Borrower outstanding on the date on which such Subsidiary was acquired by the Borrower (other than Debt incurred as consideration in, or to provide all or any portion of the funds or credit support utilized to consummate, the transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which such Subsidiary became a Subsidiary of the Borrower or was otherwise acquired by the Borrower) in an aggregate amount (for all Subsidiaries) at any one time outstanding not to exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Worth; and
     (vi) additional Debt in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Worth at any one time outstanding.
          (e) . Sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, all or substantially all of the Consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, except dispositions by any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary.
Sales, Etc. of Assets
          (f) . Enter into any material business, either directly or through any Subsidiary, except for those businesses in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are engaged on the date hereof or that are reasonably related thereto.
Change in Nature of Business
          (g) . Enter into or suffer to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary of the Borrower to (i) make payments in respect of any capital stock of such Subsidiary held by, or pay any Debt owed to, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary of the Borrower, (ii) make loans or advances to, or other investments in, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary of the Borrower or (iii) transfer any of its assets to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary of the Borrower, except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (A) any restrictions existing under this Agreement or the Indentures, (B) any restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into in connection with the disposition of all or substantially all of the capital stock or assets of such Subsidiary, (C) any restrictions on a Subsidiary imposed by HMO Regulations, Insurance Regulations or other requirements of law, or any agreements entered into pursuant thereto, and (D) any restrictions applicable to a Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower; that any such restriction shall not have been created in anticipation of or in connection with the transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which such Person became a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Clauses Restricting Subsidiary Distributions
provided
          SECTION 5.03. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not permit, as of the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio to exceed 3.00 to 1.00.
Financial Covenant
          SECTION 6.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
          (a) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within five Business Days after the same becomes due and payable;
          (b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower in any certificate, document or financial or other statement furnished by it in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made;
          (c) (i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e), (h), (i) or (j), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender;
          (d) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or notional amount of at least $50,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to Debt in excess of the aforesaid threshold amount; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any Debt in excess of the aforesaid threshold amount shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof;
          (e) (i) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally; (ii) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; (iii) any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or its debts or a substantial part of its assets under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect (""), or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property under any Debtor Relief Law, and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or (iv) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in clause (ii) or (iii) of this subsection (e);
Debtor Relief Law
 
          (f) Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order;
provided
however
          (g) (i) Any Person (other than the Borrower) or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 35% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Borrower; or (ii) during any period of 24 consecutive months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason (other than due to death or disability) to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower (except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such 24-month period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower or (y) nominated for election by, or whose nomination for election is recommended by, a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Borrower);
          (h) The Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur liability in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan; or
          (i) the non-compliance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with any terms or provisions of any applicable HMO Regulation or Insurance Regulation pertaining to the fiscal soundness, solvency or financial condition of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and such non-compliance shall not have been cured or waived within 30 days after the applicable statutory grace period (if any), if such non-compliance could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; ,
provided
 
, that in the event of an event described in Section 6.01(e)(ii), (iii) or (iv) with respect to the Borrower, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such other amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
however
          SECTION 6.02. . If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Agent may with the consent, or shall at the request, of the Required Lenders, irrespective of whether it is taking any of the actions described in Section 6.01 or otherwise, make demand upon the Borrower to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrower will, (a) pay to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders in same day funds at the Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to 102% of the aggregate L/C Exposure or (b) make such other arrangements in respect of the outstanding Letters of Credit as shall be acceptable to the Required Lenders. If at any time the Agent determines that any funds held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account are subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Agent and the Lenders or that the total amount of such funds is less than 102% of the aggregate L/C Exposure, the Borrower will, forthwith upon demand by the Agent, pay to the Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the excess of (a) 102% of the aggregate L/C Exposure over (b) the total amount of funds, if any, then held in the L/C Cash Collateral Account that the Agent determines to be free and clear of any such right and claim. Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit, to the extent funds are on deposit in the L/C Cash Collateral Account, such funds shall be applied to reimburse the Issuing Banks to the extent permitted by applicable law. After (i) no Event of Default shall be continuing or (ii) all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon and all other obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the Notes shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such L/C Cash Collateral Account shall be returned to the Borrower.
Actions in Respect of the Letters of Credit upon Default
          SECTION 7.01. . Each Lender (in its capacity as a Lender or an Issuing Bank, as applicable) hereby appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including enforcement or collection of the Notes), the Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Required Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders and all holders of Notes; , , that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that exposes the Agent to personal liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any Debtor Relief Law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any Debtor Relief Law. The Agent agrees to give to each
Authorization and Action
provided
however
 
Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
          SECTION 7.02. . Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the Agent: (i) may treat the Lender that made any Advance as the holder of the Debt resulting therefrom until the Agent receives and accepts an Assumption Agreement entered into by an Assuming Lender as provided in Section 2.18 or an Assignment and Acceptance entered into by such Lender, as assignor, and an Eligible Assignee, as assignee, as provided in Section 8.07; (ii) may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (iii) makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement; (iv) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance, observance or satisfaction of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or the existence at any time of any Default or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the Borrower; (v) shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of, or the perfection or priority of any lien or security interest created or purported to be created under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (vi) shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telecopier or other form of electronic communication satisfactory to the Agent) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.
Agent's Reliance, Etc
          SECTION 7.03. . With respect to its Commitments, the Advances made by it and the Note issued to it, JPMCB shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent; and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include JPMCB in its individual capacity. JPMCB and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, accept investment banking engagements from and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries and any Person who may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any such Subsidiary, all as if JPMCB were not the Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders. The Agent shall have no duty to disclose any information obtained or received by it or any of its Affiliates relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the extent such information was obtained or received in any capacity other than as Agent.
JPMCB and Affiliates
          SECTION 7.04. . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at
Lender Credit Decision
 
the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.
          SECTION 7.05. . (a) Each Lender agrees to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Borrower and without limiting any obligation of the Borrower to do so) from and against such Lender's Ratable Share of any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent in its capacity as such under this Agreement (collectively, the ""), that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05(a) applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Indemnification
Indemnified Costs
provided
          (b) Each Lender severally agrees to indemnify the Issuing Banks (to the extent not promptly reimbursed by the Borrower and without limiting any obligation of the Borrower to do so) from and against such Lender's Ratable Share of any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against any such Issuing Bank in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Issuing Bank in its capacity as such hereunder or in connection herewith; , , that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from such Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse any such Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any costs and expenses (including fees and expenses of counsel) payable by the Borrower under Section 8.04, to the extent that such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by the Borrower.
provided
however
          (c) The failure of any Lender to reimburse the Agent or any Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its Ratable Share of any amount required to be paid by the Lenders to the Agent or such Issuing Bank as provided herein shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to reimburse the Agent or such Issuing Bank for its Ratable Share of such amount, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to reimburse the Agent or an Issuing Bank for such other Lender's Ratable Share of such amount. Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of any Lender hereunder, the agreement and obligations of each Lender contained in this Section 7.05 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
 
          SECTION 7.06. . (a) The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Required Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Agent, which shall be subject to the Borrower's approval (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Required Lenders' removal of the retiring Agent, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent, which shall be a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or of any State thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000 and which shall be subject to the Borrower's approval (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Successor Agent
          (b) Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, discretion, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement arising thereafter. After any retiring Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent under this Agreement.
          SECTION 7.07. . Each Lender hereby acknowledges that neither the syndication agents nor any other Lender designated as any "agent" on the cover or signature pages hereof has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.
Other Agents
          SECTION 8.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders and (with respect to amendments) the Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that (a) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following: (i) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (ii) change the percentage of the Revolving Credit Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders (including as set forth in the definition of Required Lenders) that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder or (iii) amend this Section 8.01; (b) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each Lender that is directly affected by such amendment, waiver or consent, (i) other than as provided in Sections 2.18 or 2.19, increase any Commitment of such Lender, (ii) reduce or forgive the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder to such Lender, (iii) other than as provided in Section 2.19, postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder to such Lender or (iv) change Section 2.13(a) or 2.15 or the
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
 
definition of Ratable Share in a manner that would alter the ratable sharing of payments; and (c) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, the Agent and the Issuing Banks, shall change Section 2.20 or 2.21; , , that (x) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note and (y) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Issuing Banks in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, adversely affect the rights or obligations of the Issuing Banks under this Agreement.
provided
further
          In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing, the consent of a Lender to an amendment (or amendment and restatement) of this Agreement shall not be required if, upon giving effect to such amendment (or amendment and restatement), such Lender shall no longer be a party to this Agreement (as so amended or amended and restated), the Revolving Credit Commitment of such Lender shall have terminated (but such Lender shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such amendment or amendment and restatement), such Lender shall have no other commitment or other obligation hereunder and shall have been paid in full all principal, interest and other amounts owing to it or accrued for its account under this Agreement.
          SECTION 8.02. . (a) All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be either (x) in writing (including telecopier, electronic mail and other forms of electronic communication) and mailed, telecopied, telegraphed, sent by electronic mail or delivered or (y) communicated as and to the extent set forth in Section 8.02(b) and in the proviso to this Section 8.02(a), addressed as follows: If to the Borrower, at its address at 6705 Rockledge Drive, Suite 900, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, with a copy to General Counsel; if to any Initial Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on hereto; if to any other Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Agent, at its address at 10 South Dearborn, Floor 07, Chicago, Illinois 60603-2003, Attention: Joyce King, with a copy to 395 North Service Road, 3rd Floor, Melville, New York 11747, Attention: Alicia Schreibstein; or, as to the Borrower or the Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the Borrower and the Agent; that materials required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i)(i), (ii) or (iii) shall be delivered to the Agent as specified in Section 8.02(b) or as otherwise specified to the Borrower by the Agent. All such notices and communications shall, when mailed, telecopied, telegraphed or e-mailed, be effective when deposited in the mails, telecopied, delivered to the telegraph company or confirmed by e-mail, respectively, except that notices and communications to the Agent pursuant to Article II, III or VII shall not be effective until received by the Agent. Delivery by telecopier or e-mail of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes or of any Exhibit hereto to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
Notices, Etc
Schedule I
provided
          (b) So long as JPMCB or any of its Affiliates is the Agent, materials required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i)(i), (ii) and (iii) shall be either (x) delivered to the Agent in an electronic medium in a format acceptable to the Agent and the Lenders by e-mail at
 
or (y) deemed to have been delivered when the Borrower provides notice to the Agent by e-mail at that such materials are posted on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The Borrower agrees that the Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating to the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the "") available to the Lenders by posting such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the ""). The Borrower acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided "as is" and "as available" and (iii) neither the Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.
large.corporate.agency@jpmchase.com
large.corporate.agency@jpmchase.com
Communications
Platform
          (c) Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that, if requested by any Lender, the Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or telecopier. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
          SECTION 8.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
          SECTION 8.04. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant and audit expenses (subject to any limitations thereon previously agreed by the Borrower and the Agent) and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement; , , that, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Borrower shall not be responsible for the fees and expenses of more than one firm. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the
Costs and Expenses
provided
however
 
enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a).
          (b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence, willful misconduct or material breach in bad faith of its express contractual obligations hereunder. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 8.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors, equityholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person, whether or not any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances. The Borrower further agrees to pay any civil penalty or fine assessed by OFAC against the Agent or any Lender, and all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) incurred in connection with the defense thereof, as a result of conduct by the Borrower that violates a sanction enforced by OFAC.
Indemnified Party
          (c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurodollar Rate Advance is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08(e), 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.07 as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.07(a), the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance (but without duplication of any obligation of the Borrower under Section 2.11 or any other provision of this Agreement).
 
          (d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
          SECTION 8.05. . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Notes due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Note held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured; that, in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.20 and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such setoff and application; that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, each Lender expressly waives its right of setoff (and any similar right including bankers' liens) with respect to deposit accounts in which have been deposited payments received under Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE and other health care programs of the United States or any state (including the District of Columbia) thereof and any agency or other Governmental Authority thereof.
Right of Setoff
provided
provided
          SECTION 8.06. . This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lenders.
Binding Effect
          SECTION 8.07. . (a) Each Lender may and, if demanded by the Borrower (following a demand by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.11 or 2.14 or a suspension of Eurodollar Rate Advances pursuant to Section 2.12 and only if no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing) upon at least five Business Days' notice to such Lender and the Agent, will assign to one or more Persons (other than an Ineligible Institution) all or a
Assignments and Participations
 
portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Revolving Credit Commitment or Letter of Credit Commitment, the Advances owing to it, its participations in Letters of Credit and the Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under and in respect of the Facilities so assigned, (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Person that, immediately prior to such assignment, was a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of all of a Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, the amount of the Revolving Credit Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, unless the Borrower and the Agent otherwise agree, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) each such assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) shall be arranged by the Borrower after consultation with the Agent and shall be either an assignment of all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement or an assignment of a portion of such rights and obligations made concurrently with another such assignment or other such assignments that together cover all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement, (v) no Lender shall be obligated to make any such assignment as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) unless and until such Lender shall have received, as consideration for such assignment, one or more payments from either the Borrower or one or more Eligible Assignees in an aggregate amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement, and (vi) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with any Note subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 payable by the parties to each such assignment other than the Borrower; , , that in the case of each assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower, such recordation fee shall be payable by the Borrower except that no such recordation fee shall be payable in the case of an assignment made at the request of the Borrower to an Eligible Assignee that is an existing Lender. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights (other than its rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 to the extent any claim thereunder relates to an event arising prior to such assignment) and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto).
provided
however
provided
however
          (b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this
 
Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of, or the perfection or priority of any lien or security interest created or purported to be created under or in connection with, this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
          (c) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with any Note or Notes subject to such assignment, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of hereto, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.
Exhibit C
          (d) In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Agent, the applicable Ratable Share of Advances previously requested but not funded by such Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent, each Issuing Bank and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full Ratable Share of all Advances and participations in Letters of Credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs. Except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
 
          (e) The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
          (f) Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or an Ineligible Institution) in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it); , , that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and (v) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder subject to such participation, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation. The Borrower agrees that each participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04(c) (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.14(e) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.14(e) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; that such participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.15 and 2.22, as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section, and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.11 or 2.14, with respect to any participation, than its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive. To the extent permitted by law, each participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 8.05 as though it were a Lender, provided such participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15 as though it were a Lender.
provided
however
provided
          (g) Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it) in favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Board.
          (h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time any Lender that is also an Issuing Bank assigns all of its Revolving Credit Commitment and Advances pursuant to subsection (a) above, such Lender may, upon 30 days' notice to the
 
Borrower and the Lenders, resign as Issuing Bank. In the event of any such resignation as Issuing Bank, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor Issuing Bank hereunder; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of such Lender as Issuing Bank. If any such Lender resigns as Issuing Bank, it shall retain all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit issued by it in such capacity outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as Issuing Bank (including the right to require the Lenders to make Advances or fund participations in respect thereof pursuant to Section 2.03(b)).
provided
however
          SECTION 8.08. . Each of the Agent, the Lenders and each Issuing Bank agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Borrower Information (as defined below), except that Borrower Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives on a "need to know basis" (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Borrower Information and instructed to keep such Borrower Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 8.08, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap or derivative or similar transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency in connection with the rating of the Borrower or its obligations, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Borrower Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section 8.08 or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
Confidentiality
          For purposes of this Section 8.08, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Borrower Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Borrower Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Borrower Information
provided
 
          SECTION 8.09. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          SECTION 8.10. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier or any other electronic means that reproduces an image of the actual executed signature page shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
          SECTION 8.11. . (a) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. The Borrower hereby consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Borrower at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction, Etc
          (b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
          SECTION 8.12. . The Borrower assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit. Neither an Issuing Bank nor any of its officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for: (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit; that the Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not special, indirect, consequential or punitive, damages suffered by the Borrower that the
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
provided
 
Borrower proves were caused by (i) such Issuing Bank's willful misconduct, gross negligence or material breach in bad faith of its express contractual obligations hereunder in determining whether documents presented under any Letter of Credit comply with the terms of the Letter of Credit or (ii) such Issuing Bank's willful failure to make lawful payment under a Letter of Credit after the presentation to it of a draft and certificates strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation.
          SECTION 8.13. . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. The Borrower shall provide, to the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
          SECTION 8.14. . Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
          SECTION 8.15. . The Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this Section, the "Lenders"), may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrower, its stockholders and/or its Affiliates. The Borrower agrees that nothing in the Loan Documents or otherwise will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary or other implied duty between any Lender, on the one hand, and the Borrower, its stockholders or its Affiliates, on the other. The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (a) the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents (including the exercise of rights and remedies hereunder and thereunder) are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, and (b) in connection therewith and with the process leading thereto, (i) no Lender has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower, its stockholders or its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby (or the exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto) or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether any Lender has advised, is currently advising or will advise the Borrower, its stockholders or its Affiliates on other matters) or any other obligation to the Borrower except the obligations expressly set forth in the Loan Documents and (ii) each Lender is acting solely as principal and not as the agent or fiduciary of the Borrower, its management, stockholders, creditors or any other Person. The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that it has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate and that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to such transactions and the process leading thereto. The Borrower agrees that it will not claim that any Lender has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a
No Fiduciary Duty
 
fiduciary or similar duty, to the Borrower in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
          SECTION 8.16. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
BETHESDA, Md. (June 22, 2011)  Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) announced today that it has entered into a new $750 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility which will be undrawn at issuance. All outstanding balances on the previous credit facility have been repaid from existing parent company cash.
Coventry Health Care () is a diversified national managed healthcare company based in Bethesda, Maryland, operating health plans, insurance companies, network rental and workers' compensation services companies. Coventry provides a full range of risk and fee-based managed care products and services to a broad cross section of individuals, employer and government-funded groups, government agencies, and other insurance carriers and administrators.
www.coventryhealthcare.com


