FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120727081506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 27, 2012, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release regarding its results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012, and its financial condition as of the period then ended. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filings under the Exchange Act or Securities Exchange Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
BETHESDA, Md. (July 27, 2012) - Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) today reported consolidated operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.  Operating revenues totaled $3.5 billion for the quarter, with net earnings of $91.7 million or earnings per diluted share (EPS) of $0.65. These results include a one-time $7.7 million, or $0.03 EPS, impairment charge resulting from the write down of intangible assets due to the non-renewal of the Companys Kansas Medicaid contract effective January 1, 2013.
Our second quarter results reflect strong performance in our Government Programs businesses including significant improvement in our Medicaid operations and sequential growth in our Medicare products, said Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry.  We remain on track for our full year consolidated 2012 EPS guidance and, although there remains a great deal of work to be done, I am encouraged by the financial and operational progress that we have made in our Kentucky Medicaid business.
Second Quarter 2012 Consolidated Highlights
 
Page 1 of 9
 
Selected Second Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
Page 2 of 9
 
 
2012 Full Year Guidance
 
 
Page 3 of 9
 
Mr. Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry, will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday, July 27, 2012.  To listen to the call, dial toll-free at (888) 334-3001 or, for international callers, (719) 325-2460. Callers will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.  The conference call will also be webcast from Coventrys Investor Relations site at .  Coventry asks participants on both the call and webcast to review and be familiar with its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A replay of the call will be available for one week at (888) 203-1112 or, for international callers, (719) 457-0820.  The access code is 4038961.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance, including the guidance herein. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, Coventrys Quarterly Report for the quarter ending March 31, 2012, and Coventrys subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Among the risk factors that may materially affect Coventrys business, operations or financial condition are the ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs; the ability to increase premiums to offset increases in the Companys health care costs; general economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; changes in legal requirements from recently enacted federal or state laws or regulations, court decisions, or government investigations or proceedings; guaranty fund assessments under state insurance guaranty association law; changes in government funding and various other risks associated with our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; our ability to effectively implement and manage our Kentucky Medicaid program, including the implementation of appropriate risk adjustment revenue and management of the associated medical cost and the effect on our MLR; a reduction in the number of members in the Companys health plans; the Companys ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and the Companys ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations; an ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain premium rates; the non-renewal or termination of the Companys government contracts, unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies or renewal of government contracts on less than favorable terms; failure of independent agents and brokers to continue to market the Companys products to employers; a failure to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers that could result in higher medical costs and a decrease in membership; negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally or the Company in particular; a failure to effectively protect, maintain, and develop our information technology systems; compromises of the Companys data security; periodic reviews, audits and investigations under the Companys contracts with federal and state government agencies; litigation, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories; volatility in the Companys stock price and trading volume; the Companys indebtedness, which imposes certain restrictions on its business and operations; an inability to generate sufficient cash to service the Companys indebtedness; the Companys ability to receive cash from its regulated subsidiaries; the Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, which could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of the Company that its stockholders may consider favorable; and an impairment of the Companys intangible assets.  Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Coventry Health Care () is a diversified national managed health care company based in Bethesda, Maryland, dedicated to delivering high-quality health care solutions at an affordable price. Coventry provides a full portfolio of risk and fee-based products including Medicare and Medicaid programs, group and individual health insurance, workers compensation solutions, and network rental services. With a presence in every state in the nation, Coventrys products currently serve approximately 5 million individuals helping them receive the greatest possible value for their health care investment.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
 
                                                  
 
Page 4 of 9 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 9
 
                                       
 
Page 6 of 9 
 
 
Page 7 of 9
 
 
Page 8 of 9
 
 
 
Page 9 of 9


