FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120427080552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
April 27, 2012
COVENTRY HEALTH CARE, INC.
 
 
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 27, 2012, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release regarding its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, and its financial condition as of the period then ended. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.  The exhibit is not deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or incorporated by reference in the Companys filings under the Exchange Act or Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
                  
BETHESDA, Md. (April 27, 2012) - Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) today reported consolidated operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  Operating revenues totaled $3.7 billion for the quarter with net earnings of $170.7 million, or earnings per diluted share (EPS) of $1.20.  These results include EPS of $0.58 related to the release of Medicare Advantage Risk Adjustment Data Validation (RADV) audit reserves as a result of recent Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) audit methodology changes. Excluding the impact of the RADV prior period reserve release, earnings for the quarter were $88.3 million, or $0.62 EPS.
Today we reported a strong start to 2012 with six of our seven core businesses performing either at or above our expectations in the quarter, said Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry.  For example, I am very pleased with the Medicare growth and financial performance in the quarter, now representing approximately $4.3 billion of annual revenue, or 30% of the Companys total revenue.  We are optimistic about the future and our positioning to seize opportunities across our diversified businesses.
First Quarter 2012 Consolidated Highlights
 
 
 
Page 1 of 9
 
 
Selected First Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 9
 
 
2012 Full Year Guidance
 
Page 3 of 9
 
 
Mr. Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry, will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday, April 27, 2012.  To listen to the call, dial toll-free at (888) 455-2295 or, for international callers, (719) 325-2186. Callers will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.  The conference call will also be webcast from Coventrys Investor Relations site at .  Coventry asks participants on both the call and webcast to review and be familiar with its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A replay of the call will be available for one week at (888) 203-1112 or, for international callers, (719) 457-0820.  The access code is 9849499.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance, including the guidance herein. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and Coventrys subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Among the risk factors that may materially affect Coventrys business, operations or financial condition are the ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs; the ability to increase premiums to offset increases in the Companys health care costs; general economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; changes in legal requirements from recently enacted federal or state laws or regulations, court decisions, or government investigations or proceedings; guaranty fund assessments under state insurance guaranty association law; changes in government funding and various other risks associated with our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; our ability to effectively implement and manage our Kentucky Medicaid program, including management of the associated medical costs and the effect on our medical loss ratio; a reduction in the number of members in the Companys health plans; the Companys ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and the Companys ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations; an ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain premium rates; the non-renewal or termination of the Companys government contracts, unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies or renewal of government contracts on less than favorable terms; failure of independent agents and brokers to continue to market the Companys products to employers; a failure to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers that could result in higher medical costs and a decrease in membership; negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally or the Company in particular; a failure to effectively protect, maintain, and develop our information technology systems; compromises of the Companys data security; periodic reviews, audits and investigations under the Companys contracts with federal and state government agencies; litigation, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories; volatility in the Companys stock price and trading volume; the Companys indebtedness, which imposes certain restrictions on its business and operations; an inability to generate sufficient cash to service the Companys indebtedness; the Companys ability to receive cash from its regulated subsidiaries; the Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, which could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of the Company that its stockholders may consider favorable; and an impairment of the Companys intangible assets.  Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Coventry Health Care () is a diversified national managed healthcare company based in Bethesda, Maryland, operating health plans, insurance companies, network rental and workers compensation services companies.  Coventry provides a full range of risk and fee-based managed care products and services to a broad cross section of individuals, employer and government-funded groups, government agencies, and other insurance carriers and administrators.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
 
Page 4 of 9
 
 
Page 5 of 9
 
 
 
Page 6 of 9
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 9
 
 
 
Page 8 of 9
 
 
 
 
                                                                          
  Page 9 of 9
 


