FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120208081056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
ITEM 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 8, 2012, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release regarding its results of operations for the quarter and twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and its financial condition as of the period then ended. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.  The exhibit is not deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or incorporated by reference in the Companys filings under the Exchange Act or Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

              
BETHESDA, Md. (February 8, 2012) - Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) today reported consolidated operating results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Operating revenues totaled $3.1 billion for the quarter with net earnings of $85.7 million, or $0.60 earnings per diluted share (EPS).  These results include a favorable impact from the Medicare Advantage Private Fee-for-Service (MA-PFFS) product of $0.02 EPS.  Excluding the impact of MA-PFFS results, core earnings for the quarter were $82.1 million, or $0.58 EPS.
(1)
For the year ended December 31, 2011, total operating revenues were $12.2 billion with net earnings of $543.1 million, or $3.70 EPS.  These results include EPS of $0.15 from the MA-PFFS product and EPS of $0.68 related to the definitive settlement agreement associated with the provider class action litigation in Louisiana which was approved by the court during the second quarter.  Excluding the impact of MA-PFFS results and the provider class action litigation adjustment, core earnings for the year were $419.5 million, or $2.87 EPS.
(1)
(2)
We spent much of 2011 focused on seizing growth opportunities for 2012 and beyond, and I am very pleased with the strong growth in Medicaid and Medicare as we enter the first quarter of 2012,  said Allen As we wrap up 2011, we turn our focus towards 2012 with a forecast of double digit revenue growth coupled with operating earnings and EPS growth.  We are hard at work to deliver on 2012 commitments while laying the foundation to seize opportunities for the future.
F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry. 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Consolidated Highlights
 
Page 1 of 9
 
 
 
 
Selected Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 9
 
 
 
2012 FULL YEAR GUIDANCE
Page 3 of 9
 
 
 
Mr. Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry, will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday, February 8, 2012.  To listen to the call, dial toll-free at (888) 312-9865 or, for international callers, (719) 325-2286. Callers will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliations.  The conference call will also be webcast from Coventrys Investor Relations site at .  Coventry asks participants on both the call and webcast to review and be familiar with its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  A replay of the call will be available for one week at (888) 203-1112 or, for international callers, (719) 457-0820. The access code is 4441852.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance, including the guidance herein. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and Coventrys subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Among the risk factors that may materially affect Coventrys business, operations or financial condition are the ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs; the ability to increase premiums to offset increases in the Companys health care costs; general economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; changes in legal requirements from recently enacted federal or state laws or regulations, court decisions, or government investigations or proceedings; guaranty fund assessments under state insurance guaranty association law; changes in government funding and various other risks associated with our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; a reduction in the number of members in the Companys health plans; the Companys ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and the Companys ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations; an ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain premium rates; the non-renewal or termination of the Companys government contracts, unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies or renewal of government contracts on less than favorable terms; failure of independent agents and brokers to continue to market the Companys products to employers; a failure to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers that could result in higher medical costs and a decrease in membership; negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally or the Company in particular; a failure to effectively protect, maintain, and develop our information technology systems; compromises of the Companys data security; periodic reviews, audits and investigations under the Companys contracts with federal and state government agencies; litigation, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories; volatility in the Companys stock price and trading volume; the Companys indebtedness, which imposes certain restrictions on its business and operations; an inability to generate sufficient cash to service the Companys indebtedness; the Companys ability to receive cash from its regulated subsidiaries; the Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, which could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of the Company that its stockholders may consider favorable; and an impairment of the Companys intangible assets.  Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Coventry Health Care () is a diversified national managed healthcare company based in Bethesda, Maryland, operating health plans, insurance companies, network rental and workers compensation services companies.  Coventry provides a full range of risk and fee-based managed care products and services to a broad cross section of individuals, employer and government-funded groups, government agencies, and other insurance carriers and administrators.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
 
 
 
Page 4 of 9
 
 
Page 5 of 9
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 9
 
Page 7 of 9
 
 
 
 Page 8 of 9 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  9 of 9
 
 


