FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20121113063759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Merger Agreement Amendment
As set forth in Item 8.01 below, on November 12, 2012, the parties to the Consolidated Delaware Action (as defined in Item 8.01 below) executed a memorandum of understanding (the "") containing the terms of the parties' agreement in principle to resolve the Consolidated Delaware Action. The MOU provides that, in consideration for the settlement of the Consolidated Delaware Action, Aetna Inc. (""), Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("") and Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Aetna (""), will agree to amend the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 19, 2012 (as previously amended, the "") to reflect that (i) the Termination Fee (as defined in the Merger Agreement) payable by Coventry upon a termination of the Merger Agreement in certain circumstances is reduced from $167,500,000 to $100,000,000; and (ii) the period during which Coventry is required to discuss and negotiate in good faith with Aetna before making an Adverse Recommendation Change (as defined in the Merger Agreement) involving or relating to a Superior Proposal (as defined in the Merger Agreement) or terminating the Merger Agreement in order to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to a Superior Proposal is reduced from five calendar days to two calendar days. The parties to the Merger Agreement have entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 12, 2012 (""), which reflects these changes. Other than as provided in Amendment No. 2, the Merger Agreement, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, remains in full force and effect.
MOU
Aetna
Coventry
Merger Sub
Merger Agreement
Amendment No. 2
The foregoing description of Amendment No. 2 and the Merger Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of Amendment No. 2, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated by reference herein, and the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Coventry's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 20, 2012, and Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Coventry's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 23, 2012, each of which is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of Amendment No. 2 has been included to provide stockholders and other security holders with information regarding its terms and is not intended to provide any factual information about Aetna or Coventry. The representations, warranties and covenants, as applicable, contained in Amendment No. 2 and the Merger Agreement have been made solely for the purposes of Amendment No. 2 and the Merger Agreement and as of specific dates; were solely for the benefit of the parties to Amendment No. 2 and the Merger Agreement; are not intended as statements of fact to be relied upon by Aetna's or Coventry's stockholders and other security holders, but rather as a way of allocating the risk between the parties in the event the statements therein prove to be inaccurate; have been modified or qualified by certain confidential disclosures, as applicable, that were made between the parties in connection with the negotiation of Amendment No. 2 and the Merger Agreement, which disclosures, as applicable, are not reflected in either Amendment No. 2 or the Merger Agreement; may no longer be true as of a given date; and may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material by stockholders or other security holders. Security holders are not third-party beneficiaries under Amendment No. 2 or the Merger Agreement (except with respect to stockholders' right to receive the merger consideration following the effective time of the Merger (as defined in the Merger Agreement)) and should not rely on the representations, warranties or covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of Coventry, Aetna or Merger Sub. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of the Merger Agreement and/or Amendment No. 2, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in Aetna's or Coventry's public disclosures. Coventry acknowledges that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing cautionary statements, it is responsible for considering whether additional specific disclosures of material information regarding material contractual provisions are required to make the statements in this Form 8-K not misleading.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Settlement of Litigation
As previously disclosed on pages 92 and 93 of the definitive proxy statement/prospectus dated October 17, 2012, relating to Aetna's proposed acquisition of Coventry under "Litigation Relating to the Merger":
Shortly following the announcement of the Merger, several putative shareholder class action complaints were filed in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, Maryland (the "") and in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the "") against the Coventry board of directors, Coventry, Aetna and Merger Sub, which generally allege, among other things, that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties owed to Coventry's public stockholders in connection with the Merger because the merger consideration and certain other terms in the Merger Agreement are unfair; that Aetna and Merger Sub aided and abetted these alleged breaches of fiduciary duty; and that Aetna's Preliminary Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on September 21, 2012, contained various deficiencies. Among other remedies, the complaints in the Maryland Actions and the Delaware Actions generally seek injunctive relief prohibiting the defendants from completing the proposed merger or, in the event that an injunction is not awarded, unspecified money damages, costs and attorneys' fees.
Maryland Actions
Delaware Actions
On October 4, 2012, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the "") entered an order consolidating the Delaware Actions under the caption In re Coventry Health Care, Inc. Shareholder Litigation, Consolidated C. A. No. 7905-CS, and appointing the Employees' Retirement System of the Government of the Virgin Islands, the General Retirement System of the City of Detroit, and the Police and Fire Retirement System of the City of Detroit as Co-Lead Plaintiffs (the ""). Between October 16, 2012 and November 3, 2012, the parties engaged in expedited document and deposition discovery in the Consolidated Delaware Action.
Chancery Court
Consolidated Delaware Action
On October 31, 2012, defendants filed a motion in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, Maryland (the "") to stay the Maryland Actions. On November 7, 2012, the Maryland Court granted defendants' motion and ordered the Maryland Actions stayed for a period of 90 days.
Maryland Court
On November 12, 2012, the parties to the Consolidated Delaware Action executed the MOU containing the terms of the parties' agreement in principle to resolve the Consolidated Delaware Action. Pursuant to the MOU, defendants will provide certain supplemental disclosures relating to the Merger as set forth below in this Form 8-K and the parties to the Merger Agreement will amend the Merger Agreement to reflect that (i) the Termination Fee payable by Coventry upon a termination of the Merger Agreement in certain circumstances is reduced from $167,500,000 to $100,000,000; and (ii) the period during which Coventry is required to discuss and negotiate in good faith with Aetna before making an Adverse Recommendation Change involving or relating to a Superior Proposal or terminating the Merger Agreement in order to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to a Superior Proposal is reduced from five calendar days to two calendar days.
The MOU further provides that (i) the parties will agree upon and execute a stipulation of settlement (the ""), which will replace the MOU and which will be submitted to the Chancery Court for review and approval; (ii) the Stipulation will provide for dismissal of the Consolidated Delaware Action with prejudice on the merits; (iii) the Stipulation will include a general release of defendants from any and all claims relating to, among other things, the Merger, the Merger Agreement and any disclosures made in connection therewith; and (iv) the MOU is, and the Stipulation will be, conditioned on, among other things, consummation of the merger, class certification, and final approval by the Chancery Court following notice to the shareholders of Coventry. Pending execution of the Stipulation, the parties have agreed to stay all proceedings in the Consolidated Delaware Action, except those relating to the settlement.
Stipulation
The defendants have denied and continue to deny any wrongdoing or liability with respect to all claims, events and transactions complained of in the aforementioned actions or that they have engaged in any wrongdoing. The defendants have entered into the MOU to eliminate the uncertainty, burden, risk, expense and distraction of further litigation.
The settlement will not affect the form or amount of consideration to be received by Coventry stockholders in the merger.
Set forth below are certain additional disclosures required to be made in accordance with the MOU. The disclosures appear below the appropriate section heading that corresponds to the sections in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus previously mailed on or about October 19, 2012 to the Coventry stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 15, 2012 (the "").
Proxy Statement
Proposal I: The Merger: Background of the Merger
The section of the Proxy Statement "Proposal I: The Merger: Background of the Merger" starting on page 62 of the Proxy Statement is hereby amended and supplemented as follows:
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the following paragraph is hereby added after the current second paragraph (the paragraph currently running from page 62 to page 63):
"On January 31, 2012, Allen F. Wise, Coventry's chief executive officer, entered into a second amendment to his employment agreement with Coventry, which extended the period of Mr. Wise's employment for an additional two-year period that would end on December 31, 2013. In 2009, Mr. Wise agreed to serve as Coventry's chief executive officer on an interim basis. Between 2009 and January 31, 2012, Mr. Wise had expressed to the Coventry board of directors on multiple occasions his desire to retire, but had agreed, at the board's request, to continue serving as chief executive officer until a successor was identified. It was the expectation of the Nominating / Corporate Governance Committee of the Coventry board and of Mr. Wise that Coventry's board would identify a successor to Mr. Wise by early 2013 and that Mr. Wise would remain with Coventry through the end of 2013 to allow for an orderly transition. Since 2009, the Nominating / Corporate Governance Committee has overseen a process designed to identify a successor to Mr. Wise. That process is proceeding more slowly than anticipated, however, and to date it has not resulted in the identification of a successor."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the first sentence of the current third paragraph (the current first full paragraph on page 63) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
"Mr. Wise from time to time meets with other chief executive officers of managed care companies to discuss industry developments and events (including approximately four meetings in the previous 12 months with the chief executive officers of large managed care organizations)."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the following paragraphs are hereby added after the current third paragraph (the current first full paragraph on page 63):
"On February 8, 2012, executives of Coventry, including Randy Giles, Coventry's chief financial officer, and Drew Asher, Coventry's senior vice president of corporate finance, met with Richard C. Jacobsen, a Managing Director focusing on the health care services sector at Greenhill. Mr. Wise was present for a portion of the meeting. The meeting had been scheduled in January 2012 at Mr. Jacobsen's request, and was consistent with Mr. Jacobsen's practice of meeting periodically with executives in the sector to discuss the managed care industry and potential strategic opportunities. Mr. Jacobsen's presentation to the Coventry executives focused on potential strategic acquisition opportunities involving independent Medicaid managed care organizations. During Mr. Jacobsen's presentation, there was a discussion concerning what other industry participants might also have a potential interest in acquiring an independent Medicaid managed care organization. Aetna was identified as one such industry participant, and the participants at the meeting discussed the view that Aetna would want to increase its presence in the Medicaid business and that Coventry's growth in the Medicaid business could potentially make Coventry more attractive to Aetna as a potential acquisition target. In the course of these discussions, a Coventry executive noted the strength of Coventry's own Medicaid business, and suggested that the next time Mr. Jacobsen met with Aetna, Mr. Jacobsen should discuss with Aetna the strength of Coventry's Medicaid business. As part of Greenhill's practice of meeting with industry participants from time to time, Mr. Jacobsen had previously met with Aetna executives on January 31, 2012 to discuss the managed care industry and potential strategic opportunities.
On March 7, 2012, Scott Bok, the chief executive officer of Greenhill, and Mr. Jacobsen met with executives of Aetna, including Mark L. Keim, Aetna's global head of strategy and corporate development, and Joseph M. Zubretsky, Aetna's senior executive vice president and chief financial officer, to discuss the managed
care industry and potential strategic opportunities, including three specific potential acquisitions that would increase Aetna's presence in the Medicaid business. This meeting was scheduled in February 2012 at Mr. Jacobsen's request as part of Greenhill's customary practice of meeting with industry participants from time to time. One of the strategic opportunities that Mr. Bok and Mr. Jacobsen presented was an acquisition of Coventry by Aetna. The written materials presented by Mr. Bok and Mr. Jacobsen at the meeting included an "Illustrative Acquisition Analysis" that identified an illustrative acquisition price for each of the three potential acquisition targets and included a "Preliminary Impact Analysis" for each company that identified illustrative acquisition prices based on premiums of 20%, 30%, and 40% to each company's current stock price. That analysis resulted in illustrative acquisition prices of $38.84, $42.08, and $45.32 per share, respectively, for Coventry. During the course of the meeting, representatives of Aetna indicated to Mr. Bok and Mr. Jacobsen that, prior to the meeting, Aetna had begun to consider and analyze, among other strategic alternatives, a potential acquisition of Coventry by Aetna."
Following this meeting, on April 6, 2012On April 6, 2012
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the words "
" in the first sentence of the current fourth paragraph (the current second full paragraph on page 63) are hereby replaced with the words, "
".
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the current fifth paragraph (the current third full paragraph on page 63) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following paragraphs:
"On April 26, 2012, Coventry and Aetna executed a confidentiality and one-year standstill agreement in anticipation of the potential exchange of information and in-person meetings between members of senior management of both companies. Subsequently, Greenhill conducted for Coventry's management and board of directors certain preliminary analyses relating to a potential transaction with Aetna. Around this time, Mr. Asher indicated to Mr. Jacobsen that Coventry management likely would recommend that Coventry's board of directors engage Greenhill in the event that the Coventry board determined to engage a financial advisor in connection with a potential sale of the company, although Greenhill was advised that any decision to engage a particular financial advisor would be made by the Coventry board.
On or about April 27, 2012, Mr. Jacobsen made a presentation to representatives of Coventry with respect to a potential acquisition of Coventry by Aetna. The presentation addressed a variety of matters relating to a potential acquisition, including potential strategic acquirers other than Aetna that might have an interest in acquiring Coventry. The presentation identified at least two other potential strategic acquirers with the financial resources to acquire Coventry, but stated that their interest in such a transaction was uncertain. In this same time period, Mr. Wise expressed the view to other management at Coventry that, depending on the course of discussions, Coventry may decide to convey to Aetna that Coventry was not for sale and did not intend to start a wide sales process. At the same time, Mr. Wise expressed the view that Coventry must make clear that if Aetna made a definitive offer for Coventry, the decision whether to initiate such a sales process would be made by Coventry's board, based on input from the board's advisors, the board's perspective on the value of Aetna's proposal, and other factors."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the first sentence of the current sixth paragraph (the current fourth full paragraph on page 63) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
"On May 2, 2012, Mr. Bertolini, Mr. Zubretsky, and Mr. Keim met with Mr. Wise, Mr. Giles, and Mr. Asher in New York in order to initiate a more formal dialogue relating to a potential business combination."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the current seventh paragraph (the current fifth full paragraph on page 63) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
"On May 16, 2012, Mr. Wise telephoned Mr. Bertolini, and Mr. Bertolini confirmed that Aetna anticipated making a proposal following discussion at its board meeting on May 18 and that he would call Mr. Wise following that board meeting. While Mr. Wise had previously updated certain members of Coventry's board of directors of his discussions with Mr. Bertolini and kept them apprised of events and developments in connection with those discussions, he had not presented such information to Coventry's board of directors as a whole at a formal meeting of the board. On May 17, 2012, during an executive session of a regularly scheduled in-person meeting of the Coventry board, Mr. Wise discussed with Coventry's full board of directors the details of the preliminary
discussions with Mr. Bertolini and that Coventry would likely be receiving a proposal from Aetna in the following days. The Coventry board then scheduled a telephonic meeting for May 23, 2012, to discuss the terms of any proposal received. Following this meeting, the members of the Coventry board of directors reviewed background materials on Aetna and the managed care industry generally that had been prepared by Greenhill at the request of Coventry's management. During this meeting, some Coventry board members were in favor of hiring Greenhill, while others decided that they did not yet have sufficient information about Greenhill to make a decision to retain it as the board's financial advisor. As a result of the board's concerns, Mr. Wise later sent the Coventry board a list of potential candidates that could serve as the board's financial advisor if it considered a transaction. This list included Greenhill."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the last sentence of the current ninth paragraph (the current first full paragraph on page 64) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
"Mr. Bertolini advised that Aetna was not in a position to increase its proposal, and Mr. Wise and Mr. Bertolini agreed to terminate discussions between the companies about a potential transaction."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the following paragraph is hereby added after the current ninth paragraph (the current first full paragraph on page 64):
"In light of the parties' agreement that discussions between Coventry and Aetna about a potential transaction had been terminated, on May 30, 2012, Mr. Jacobsen attended a meeting with certain Aetna executives. This meeting was scheduled as part of Greenhill's customary practice of meeting with industry participants from time to time, and the purpose of the meeting was to discuss, among other things, industry trends and certain potential strategic opportunities for Aetna (other than a potential acquisition of Coventry)."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), in the current tenth paragraph (the current second full paragraph on page 64), the following words are hereby added following, "whereby Coventry's shareholders received at least $42.00 per share":
", which, in Mr. Wise's view, was a price that would be worthy of consideration by Coventry's board"
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the current thirteenth paragraph (the current first full paragraph on page 65) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
"After the board meeting, on July 11, 2012, Mr. Wise contacted Mr. Bertolini to inform him that the Coventry board had met and that he would be sending Mr. Bertolini a letter expressing the decision of Coventry's board, following which Mr. Wise sent Mr. Bertolini a letter noting the points decided at the special meeting of Coventry's board. During the July 11 phone call, Mr. Bertolini indicated that while Aetna was willing to proceed with a transaction at $42.00 per share, it was not willing to offer additional consideration."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the current eighteenth paragraph (the current first full paragraph on page 66) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
"Later that day, Mr. Wise and Mrs. Tallett called Mr. Bertolini to communicate the Coventry board of directors' message and request that Aetna provide additional value. Mr. Wise and Mrs. Tallett initially inquired whether Aetna would be prepared to pay $43.00 per share. Mr. Wise and Mrs. Tallett subsequently expressed the view that Aetna should be able to offer an additional $0.25-$0.50 per share in consideration. Mr. Bertolini responded during this conversation that Aetna was unwilling to pay any more than $42.00 per share."
Under the caption "Background of the Merger" (starting on page 62), the current twenty-second paragraph (the paragraph currently running from page 66 to page 67) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following paragraphs:
"On August 15 and 16, 2012, Coventry's board was scheduled to hold its regularly scheduled board and committee meetings in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. After conferring with Greenhill, Wachtell Lipton and Bass Berry on the night of August 14, 2012, concerning the status of the merger agreement negotiations, Mr. Wise, on the
morning of August 15, 2012, proposed to Mr. Bertolini that he, together with other members of Aetna's senior management and representatives of Aetna's advisors, travel to Jackson Hole to participate in in-person meetings to resolve these remaining material items. Mr. Bertolini accepted the invitation, and he and other members of Aetna's senior management and representatives of Goldman Sachs and Davis Polk traveled to Jackson Hole on August 15, 2012. During the course of the Coventry board meetings in Jackson Hole that day, Coventry's advisors discussed with the board of directors the process of negotiation of the definitive merger agreement, particularly Aetna's and Coventry's positions with respect to the remaining material items. As part of these discussions, the Coventry board of directors once again emphasized its concern that Coventry stockholders receive certainty of completion of any transaction (including a significant commitment by any potential purchaser to seek antitrust and regulatory approval) and that the terms of any definitive agreement not be overly prohibitive to other, potentially competitive, business combination proposals. Coventry management and the Coventry board again reviewed the opportunities and challenges arising from a potential business combination (as well as the opportunities and challenges Coventry would face if it were to remain a stand-alone company), and together with Coventry's advisors also discussed Coventry's due diligence of Aetna, including, among other things, its financial resources to consummate a transaction, adequacy of reserves, and public relations and roll-out plans in the case that a transaction proceeded toward announcement. Also, during a subsequent portion of the meeting, Mr. Giles made a presentation to the board of directors regarding potential strategic alternatives for Coventry, including opportunities for Coventry to acquire managed care organizations and potential transactions involving the acquisition of Coventry by a strategic partner. With respect to the possibility that Coventry could be acquired, Mr. Giles' presentation discussed three potential strategic partners: Aetna, Company A, and Company B. The presentation noted that Aetna and Company A may have had a need to increase scale within the government business, and that Company B may have had a need to further diversify into the commercial and Medicaid businesses, to pursue dual eligible opportunities. On the "Pros" side, the presentation noted that an acquisition of Coventry by Company A would give Company A the opportunity to nearly double commercial risk membership, make it the third largest publicly traded plan by membership, add national multisite capabilities, and add a national commercial network. On the "Pros" side for Company B, the presentation noted that an acquisition of Coventry by Company B would give Company B the opportunity to diversify away from what is essentially a Medicare only business, give Company B a commercial division and a Medicaid division, and provide Company B with the opportunity for better success with dual eligibles. On the "Cons" side, however, the presentation noted that Company A's recent acquisition of another company could keep it on the sidelines from major deals in the near term and Company B had no real focus on certain business lines in which Coventry operated.
Later in the evening of August 15, 2012, after Mr. Bertolini and the other Aetna representatives and advisors had arrived in Jackson Hole, members of both companies' senior management and representatives of their advisors engaged in extensive negotiations regarding the terms of a definitive merger agreement."
Proposal I: The Merger: Opinion of Coventry's Financial Advisor
The section of the Proxy Statement "Proposal I: The Merger: Opinion of Coventry's Financial Advisor" starting on page 73 of the Proxy Statement is hereby amended and supplemented as follows:
Under the caption "Other Considerations" (starting on page 82), the third paragraph (the current second full paragraph on page 83) is hereby amended by deleting clause (iii) of such paragraph and replacing it with the following:
"(iii) services performed for Aetna in connection with Aetna's acquisition of Medicity Inc., completed January 2011, which services were rendered by certain of the same Greenhill personnel that later advised the Coventry board of directors in connection with the proposed transaction, and for which Aetna paid Greenhill a transaction fee of $4,000,000 and reimbursed certain of its out-of-pocket expenses."
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "explore," "evaluate," "intend," "may," "might," "plan,"
"potential," "predict," "project," "seek," "should," or "will," or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Aetna's and Coventry's control.
Statements in this document that are forward-looking, including the expected settlement of the Consolidated Delaware Action, are based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections, and are subject to significant uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond Aetna's and Coventry's control. Important risk factors could cause actual future events to differ materially from those currently expected by Coventry's management, including, but not limited to the outcome of various litigation matters related to the proposed acquisition.
No assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do occur, when they will occur and what impact they will have on the results of operations, financial condition or cash flows of Aetna or Coventry. Neither Aetna nor Coventry assumes any duty to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, as of any future date.
Important Information For Investors And Stockholders
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. Aetna has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-184041), including Amendment No. 1 thereto, containing a proxy statement/prospectus, and Coventry has filed with the SEC a proxy statement/prospectus, and each of Aetna and Coventry has filed and will file other documents with respect to the proposed acquisition of Coventry. The registration statement was declared effective on October 18, 2012, and Aetna and Coventry commenced mailing the definitive proxy statement/prospectus to Coventry stockholders on or about October 19, 2012. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF COVENTRY ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN FILED OR WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Aetna or Coventry through the website maintained by the SEC at . Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Aetna will be available free of charge on Aetna's internet website at or by contacting Aetna's Investor Relations Department at 860-273-8204. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Coventry will be available free of charge on Coventry's internet website at or by contacting Coventry's Investor Relations Department at 301-581-5430.
SEC
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.aetna.com
http://www.cvty.com
Aetna, Coventry, their respective directors and certain of their executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Coventry is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2012, its proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 6, 2012, and its Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on May 31, 2012. Information about the directors and executive officers of Aetna is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2012, its proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 9, 2012 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, which was filed with the SEC on October 25, 2012. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are contained in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 2.1
AMENDMENT NO. 2 (this "") dated as of November 12, 2012 among Aetna Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), Jaguar Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (""), and Coventry Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Amendment
Parent
Merger Subsidiary
Company
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 19, 2012 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 17, 2012 among Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company, the ""); and
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company desire to amend certain provisions of the Merger Agreement as provided for in this Amendment.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01Section 6.03 of the Merger Agreement is amended to:
. Amendment to Section 6.03.
(a) replace each reference to "five calendar days" or "five calendar day period" in subsection (e) thereof with a reference to "two calendar days" or "two calendar day period", respectively; and
(b) delete the following text from the first sentence of subsection (e) thereof: ", except that such new notice period shall be for three Business Days (as opposed to five calendar days)".
Section 1.02.Section 10.03 of the Merger Agreement is amended to replace the reference to "$167,500,000" in subsection (a) thereof with a reference to "$100,000,000".
Amendment to Section 10.03.
Section 2.01Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Merger Agreement.
. Definitions.
Section 2.02. . All notices, requests and other communications to any party to this Amendment shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given,
Notices
if to Parent or Merger Subsidiary, to:
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
if to the Company, to:
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
and
 
or to such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed received on the date of receipt by the recipient thereof if received prior to 5:00 p.m. on a Business Day in the place of receipt. Otherwise, any such notice, request or communication shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day in the place of receipt.
Section 2.03. . (a) Any provision of this Amendment may be amended or waived prior to the Effective Time if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case of an amendment, by each party to this Amendment, or, in the case of a waiver, by each party against whom the waiver is to be effective; that, after the Company Stockholder Approval has been obtained there shall be no amendment or waiver of this Amendment that would require the further approval of the stockholders of the Company under the Delaware Law without such approval having first been obtained.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
(b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Applicable Law.
Section 2.04. . Except as otherwise provided herein, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Amendment shall be paid by the party incurring such cost or expense.
Expenses
Section 2.05. . The provisions of this Amendment shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto. No party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Amendment without the prior written consent of each other party hereto, except that Parent or Merger Subsidiary may transfer or assign its rights and obligations under this Amendment, in whole or from time to time in part, to (i) one or more of their Affiliates at any time and (ii) after the Effective Time, to any Person; that such transfer or assignment shall not relieve Parent or Merger Subsidiary of its obligations hereunder or enlarge, alter or change any obligation of any other party hereto or due to Parent or Merger Subsidiary.
Successors and Assigns
provided
 
Section 2.06. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of law rules of such state.
Governing Law
Section 2.07. . Each of the parties hereto (i) irrevocably consents to the service of the summons and complaint and any other process in any action or proceeding relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, on behalf of itself or its property, in accordance with Section 2.02 or in such other manner as may be permitted by Applicable Law, of copies of such process to such party, and nothing in this Section 2.07 shall affect the right of any party to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by Applicable Law, (ii) irrevocably and unconditionally consents and submits itself and its property in any action or proceeding to the exclusive general jurisdiction of the Delaware Court of Chancery and any state appellate court therefrom within the State of Delaware (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware) in the event any dispute arises out of this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, (iii) agrees that it shall not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (iv) agrees that any actions or proceedings arising in connection with this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought, tried and determined only in the Delaware Court of Chancery (or, only if the Delaware Court of Chancery declines to accept jurisdiction over a particular matter, any state or federal court within the State of Delaware), (v) waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same and (vi) agrees that it shall not bring any action relating to this Amendment or the transactions contemplated hereby in any court other than the aforesaid courts. Each of Parent, Merger Subsidiary and the Company agrees that a final judgment in any action or proceeding in such court as provided above shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by Applicable Law.
Jurisdiction/Venue
Section 2.08. . EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AMENDMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AMENDMENT. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT,
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AMENDMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 2.08.
Section 2.09. . This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, including by facsimile or by email with .pdf attachments, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Amendment shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed and delivered (by electronic communication, facsimile or otherwise) by all of the other parties hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other parties hereto, this Amendment shall have no effect and no party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication). Except as expressly amended herein, all other terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The term "Agreement" as used in the Merger Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Merger Agreement, as amended hereby.
Counterparts; Effectiveness
Section 2.10.If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such a determination, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Amendment so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
Severability.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 


