FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20121026082002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
On October 26, 2012, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012, and its financial condition as of the period then ended. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any Company filings under the Exchange Act or Securities Exchange Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BETHESDA, Md. (October 26, 2012)Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) today reported consolidated operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. Operating revenues totaled $3.5 billion for the quarter with net earnings of $105.3 million, or earnings per diluted share (EPS) of $0.78. For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, total operating revenues were $10.7 billion with net earnings of $367.7 million, or $2.64 EPS.
"I am pleased with the Company's strong third quarter results including the fifth consecutive quarter of membership growth, revenue growth of nearly $500 million from the prior year quarter, MLR improvement across all of the health plan businesses from the prior quarter, continued progress in the Kentucky Medicaid program, and successful implementation of SG&A initiatives driving a low cost operating structure," said Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry. "The strength of these results has allowed the Company to move to the top end of its EPS guidance range. More importantly, I believe the pending combination with Aetna will build upon the strengths of each company and further our shared commitment to improving the health and well-being of our members."
Consolidated Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2012 Highlights
Medicare Advantage
 
 
 
Medicare Part D
 
 
Medicaid
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Risk
 
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
2012 Full Year Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Information for Investors and Stockholders
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. On August 20, 2012, Coventry announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Aetna Inc. ("Aetna") pursuant to which Aetna will acquire Coventry. Aetna has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-184041), including Amendment No. 1 thereto, in connection with the proposed transaction with Coventry containing a definitive proxy statement/prospectus. Coventry has also filed the definitive proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC. The registration statement was declared effective on October 18, 2012. Aetna and Coventry commenced mailing the definitive proxy statement/prospectus to Coventry stockholders on or about October 19, 2012. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF COVENTRY ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED OR THAT WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Aetna or Coventry through the website maintained by the SEC at . Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Aetna are available free of charge on Aetna's internet website at or by contacting Aetna's Investor Relations Department at 860-273-8204. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Coventry are available free of charge on Coventry's internet website at or by contacting Coventry's Investor Relations Department at 301-581-5430.
http://www.sec.gov
http://www.aetna.com
http://www.cvty.com
Aetna, Coventry, their respective directors and certain of their executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Coventry is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2012, its proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 6, 2012, and its Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on May 31, 2012. Information about the directors and executive officers of Aetna is set forth in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2012, its proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 9, 2012 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, which was filed with the SEC on July 31, 2012. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are contained in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance, including the guidance herein and the pending merger with Aetna. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventry's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, Coventry's Quarterly Report for the quarter ending June 30, 2012, and Coventry's subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Among the risk factors that may materially affect Coventry's business, operations or financial condition are the ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs; the ability to increase premiums to offset increases in the Company's health care costs; general economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; changes in legal requirements from recently enacted federal or state laws or regulations, court decisions, or government investigations or proceedings; guaranty fund assessments under state insurance guaranty association law; changes in government funding and various other risks associated with our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; our ability to effectively implement and manage our Kentucky Medicaid program, including the implementation of appropriate risk adjustment revenue and management of the associated medical cost and the effect on our MLR; a reduction in the number of members in the Company's health plans; the Company's ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and the Company's ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations; an ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain premium rates; the non-renewal or termination of the Company's government contracts, unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies or renewal of government contracts on less than favorable terms; failure of independent agents and brokers to continue to market the Company's products to employers; a failure to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers that could result in higher medical costs and a decrease in membership; negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally or the Company in particular; a failure to effectively protect, maintain, and develop our information technology systems; compromises of the Company's data security; periodic reviews, audits and investigations under the Company's contracts with federal and state government agencies; litigation, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories; volatility in the Company's stock price and trading volume; the Company's indebtedness, which imposes certain restrictions on its business and operations; an inability to generate sufficient cash to service the Company's indebtedness; the Company's ability to receive cash from its regulated subsidiaries; an impairment of the Company's intangible assets; the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, which could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of the Company that its stockholders may consider favorable; and the failure to complete the merger with Aetna. Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Coventry Health Care () is a diversified national managed health care company based in Bethesda, Maryland, dedicated to delivering high-quality health care solutions at an affordable price. Coventry provides a full portfolio of risk and fee-based products including Medicare and Medicaid programs, group and individual health insurance, workers' compensation solutions, and network rental services. With a presence in every state in the nation, Coventry's products currently serve approximately 5 million individuals helping them receive the greatest possible value for their health care investment.
www.coventryhealthcare.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


