FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120322121351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
(b)           On March 16, 2012, John J. Stelben resigned as Senior Vice President, Medicaid Health Plans of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company),  effective as of March 17, 2012 (the Termination Date).
(e)           On March 16, 2012, the Company and John J. Stelben entered into a Separation Agreement and Release (the Agreement) setting forth the terms of Mr. Stelbens departure from the Company on  the Termination Date.
Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Stelben has resigned all active services as an employee.  Mr. Stelben will be entitled to six months of severance based on his annualized salary.  Mr. Stelben will receive a lump-sum payment 30 days following the signing of the Agreement.
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, I agree, in exchange for the payment that I will receive, that for a period of 12 months starting from my Termination Date, I will not disclose to any person, other than an employee of the Employer, or except where such disclosure may be required by law, any material confidential information that I obtained while in the employ of Coventry about any of its products, services, pricing, technology, know-how or the like, customers, methods, or future plans, all of which I acknowledge are valuable, special, and unique assets, the disclosure of which would materially damage Employer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 


