FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120201164846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
 
On January 26, 2012, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Company's 2012 Executive Management Incentive Plan (the "2012 EMIP"). The 2012 EMIP is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company and is subject to the Company's Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan. Subject to the terms of the 2012 EMIP, the Compensation Committee has full power and authority to determine the eligible participants under the 2012 EMIP, the applicable performance thresholds and the performance measurements that apply to each award. The Compensation Committee of the Company determined that all named executive officers of the Company are eligible to participate in the 2012 EMIP. The 2012 EMIP provides that performance measurements for executive officers may be based on the achievement of one or more of the following six financial objectives: earnings per share ("EPS"), revenue, operating earnings, membership growth, selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A") and earnings growth. The Compensation Committee has determined that the performance measurements for 2012 will be based on EPS, revenue and SG&A. The 2012 EMIP provides the Compensation Committee with full authority to amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations it deems appropriate in administering the 2012 EMIP.
In connection with the adoption of the 2012 EMIP, the Compensation Committee established the following target awards with respect to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and each other named executive officer* of the Company (all percentages refer to a percentage of such officer's annual base salary for fiscal year 2012):
 
 
Any amounts paid out under the 2012 EMIP are subject to recoupment from participants in accordance with the Company's Executive Incentive Compensation Recoupment Policy.
The foregoing summary of the 2012 EMIP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2012 EMIP, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Section 1. Purpose
The purpose of this Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by attracting and retaining key employees, and by stimulating the efforts of such employees to contribute to the continued success and growth of the business of the Company. This Plan is governed by the terms and conditions of the Coventry Health Care, Inc. 2004 Incentive Plan ("2004 Incentive Plan") and awards hereunder shall be "Performance Awards" to Covered Officers as defined in Sections 8 and 9 of the Incentive Plan.
Section 2. Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3. Administration
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to all the applicable provisions of the Plan and applicable law, to (i) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan, (ii) construe, interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan, and (iii) make all other determinations and take all other actions necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, each determination made and each action taken by the Committee pursuant to the Plan or any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan (x) shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, (y) may be made at any time and (z) shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes on all persons, including, but not limited to Participants and their legal representatives and beneficiaries, and employees of the Company.
Section 4. Awards
(a) At any time ending on or before the 90
Determination of Target Award and Eligible Employees.
th
calendar day during each Performance Period, the Committee shall designate all Participants and their Target Awards for such Performance Period, and establish one or more Performance Measurements. Following the close of each Performance Period and prior to payment to any Participant under the Plan, the Committee must confirm that the Performance Threshold(s) used for the basis of the payout, has been met.
(bThe Committee will grant Incentive Awards under the Plan (an "Incentive Award"). The Committee shall determine the proportion of Incentive Award that shall be paid in cash and/or Company stock. Award payments in shares of Company stock shall be valued at the closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the date of grant. Incentive Awards shall be "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and shall be granted in accordance with the following:
)
Incentive Awards.
In the event that the Company's actual Performance Measurement for a Performance Period is equal to or exceeds the designated Performance Threshold for the Performance Period, then each Participant shall receive an Incentive Award for that Performance Period in an amount not to exceed 1% of operating earnings.
Pre-Established Formula.
. The specific performance measurement for employees who are covered under the Plan shall be based upon achievement of one or more of the following financial objectives:
(c)
Performance Measurement
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) . Designated Participants will also have their award modified based on Business/Division results and achievement of individual performance goals.
Performance Measurement Weighting
Section 5. General Provisions
(a) . The Committee shall retain sole and full discretion to reduce by any amount the Incentive Award otherwise payable to any Participant under this Plan.
Discretionary Reduction
(b) No Incentive Award shall be paid to a Participant who is not actively employed by the Company at the time the Incentive Award otherwise would be paid except in the case of retirement, death or permanent disability. If a Participant retires before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but before an Incentive Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Incentive Award that the Participant would have received. If a Participant dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled before the end of a Performance Period or after the end of a Performance Period but before an Incentive Award is paid, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine that the Participant (or, in the case of death, the Participant's estate) shall be paid a pro rated portion of the Incentive Award that the Participant would have received. The Committee shall determine the Participant's date of disability per Company policy and practice.
C
ontinued Employment.
(c) The Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid pursuant to the Plan any taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to Incentive Award payments. Any amounts so withheld shall be treated as paid to the Participant (or the Participant's beneficiary or estate, if applicable) for all purposes of the Plan.
Tax Withholding.
d) . No employee shall have any claim to be granted any Incentive Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants or their beneficiaries under the Plan.
(
No Rights to Awards
(e)Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation arrangements, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Arrangements.
(f) This plan shall expire on the date of the annual shareholders meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the date it is approved by the shareholders of the Company, unless re-approved by stockholders on or before such date.
Term
.


