FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120206164132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
 
On January 31, 2012, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company") and its Chief Executive Officer, Allen F. Wise, entered into Amendment No. 2 (the "Wise Amendment") to the Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Mr. Wise made the 30
th
day of April, 2009 and effective as of January 26, 2009, and as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 16, 2010.
Pursuant to the terms of the Wise Amendment:
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the achievement of the performance criteria, the performance share units may vest up to 150% of the amount of the original award. In addition, the Wise Amendment makes additional conforming changes consistent with the foregoing terms and provides for certain vesting and settlement provisions with respect to incentive awards upon termination with and without cause, constructive termination and following a change in control.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Wise Amendment, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Employment Agreement, dated April 30, 2009 and effective as of January 26, 2009 (the "Employment Agreement"), as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated June 16, 2010, by and between Coventry Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Allen F. Wise, is hereby further amended by this Amendment No. 2, entered into as of January 31, 2012 with an effective date of January 1, 2012 (together with the Employment Agreement and Amendment No. 1, the "Agreement"). Capitalized terms not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Employment Agreement.
, the Executive and the Company wish to extend the Initial Term of the Agreement for an additional two years, through December 31, 2013, consistent with the Company's desire to retain the services of the Executive; and
WHEREAS
, the Executive and the Company wish to establish certain terms regarding the Base Salary and performance based compensation which the Executive can earn during this additional two year period of employment;
WHEREAS
the Company and the Executive hereby amend the Agreement as follows by entering into this Amendment No. 2:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
 
"The term of the Executive's employment commenced on January 26, 2009 and shall terminate on December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Term") unless the Executive's employment is terminated sooner as outlined in Section 4 herein."
 
"As of January 1, 2012, the Company shall pay the Executive a Base Salary of not less than Nine Hundred Thousand Dollars ($900,000) per annum, subject to the applicable withholdings."
 
"The Executive shall be eligible for an annual bonus ("Bonus") in accordance with the Company's performance-based plan for purposes of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), which is currently administered as the Company's Executive Management Incentive Plan. As of January 1, 2012, the Executive's target annual Bonus shall equal 200% of his Base Salary and shall be earned based upon achievement of the performance targets set annually by the Committee. In no event will the annual Bonus exceed 200% of the target Bonus."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"However, except in the case of a Change in Control (hereinafter defined) and if during the Initial Term of this Agreement, the Executive suffers a Termination Without Cause (hereinafter defined) or a Constructive Termination (hereinafter defined), the Company will pay the Executive the following:"
 
 
 
 
 
 
"if the Executive suffers a Termination Without Cause or Constructive Termination following a Change in Control, the Company will pay to the Executive the following:"
 
 
 
"Any unvested stock options, unvested restricted stock units, and unvested performance share units shall be forfeited. The vested stock options, vested restricted stock units, vested performance share units and any other outstanding equity awards granted to the Executive shall be governed by the applicable award agreements, the Incentive Plan and, unless otherwise waived in the Agreement, as amended, the provisions of any other incentive plans."
 
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Section 5(b) of the Company's Executive Management Incentive Plan, as such provisions may be amended from time to time, Executive's employment shall terminate in accordance with the Agreement, as amended, and Executive shall be eligible for payout of his vested restricted share units and vested performance share units in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, as amended.
Continued Employment
 
Except as and to the extent expressly modified by this Amendment No. 2 and Amendment No. 1, the Agreement will remain in full force and effect in all respects.
 
This Amendment No. 2 may be executed in counterparts, each of which will constitute an original and all of which, when taken together, will constitute one agreement.
, the parties have executed this Amendment No. 2 as of January 31, 2012.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 


