FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120521171024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Item 5.03                      Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company) held on May 17, 2012 (the Annual Meeting), stockholders approved amendments to the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Certificate) to (i) declassify the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) and (ii) reduce the supermajority voting requirements for amending certain provisions of the Certificate from 75% of the voting power of all shares of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors to 67% of such voting power.  Following the Annual Meeting, the Board adopted the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the A&R Certificate), which was filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on May 18, 2012, becoming effective on such date. Additional information regarding the A&R Certificate is contained in the Companys 2012 proxy statement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 6, 2012 (the 2012 Proxy Statement). A copy of the A&R Certificate is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
 
Following the Annual Meeting, the Board adopted the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the A&R Bylaws) to (i) declassify the Board and (ii) reduce the supermajority stockholder voting requirements for amending the bylaws from 75% of the outstanding capital stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon to 67% of such outstanding capital stock. The amendments to the Companys bylaws were previously approved by the Board and their effectiveness was conditioned upon stockholder approval of the amendments to the Certificate at the Annual Meeting. A copy of the A&R Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2.
 
 
The foregoing descriptions of the A&R Certificate and the A&R Bylaws are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the A&R Certificate and the A&R Bylaws filed herewith.
Item 5.07                      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
(a), (b) The Company held the Annual Meeting on May 17, 2012.  An aggregate of 129,498,618shares of the Companys common stock, or 91.2% of the Companys shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote as of the record date for the Annual Meeting, were represented at the Annual Meeting either in person or by proxy.  Six proposals were submitted for stockholder approval at the Annual Meeting. Each of the proposals is described in detail in the 2012 Proxy Statement distributed in connection with the Annual Meeting. The final results for the votes regarding each proposal are set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Coventry Health Care Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Corporation), hereby certifies as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The name of the Corporation is:  Coventry Health Care, Inc.
 
 
 
1.  The street address of the Corporations principal office is:
 
6705 Rockledge Drive
Suite #900
Bethesda, MD 20817
County of Montgomery
 
2.  The name and street address of the Corporations initial registered agent in the State of Delaware is:
 
National Registered Agents, Inc.
160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101
Dover, DE 19904
County of Kent
 
 
 
The Corporation is organized for profit. The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may now or hereafter be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the ), as amended from time to time.
DGCL
 
 
 
 
 
 
The total number of shares of all classes of capital stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 571,000,000 shares, consisting of 570,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share ( ) and 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (). The aggregate par value shall be $5,710,000.
Common
Stock
Undesignated Preferred Stock
 
1.  
Undesignated Preferred Stock
.
 
A. Except as set forth herein or otherwise required by law, the Board of Directors is authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of Undesignated Preferred Stock in one or more series and, by filing with the Secretary of State of Delaware a Certificate of Designations, which will be effective without shareholder action in accordance with the provisions of the DGCL, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof
 
B. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each such series shall include, but not be limited to, the authority to provide that the shares of any such series may
 
(1) have special, confidential or limited voting rights or no voting rights; provided, however, that the shares, if not convertible into Common Stock, will not have more than one vote per share, except as otherwise required by law, and if convertible into Common Stock will not have more votes per share than they would have if they were so converted, except as otherwise required by law;
 
(2) be redeemable or convertible: (a) at the option of the Corporation, by the shareholder or another person on the occurrence of a designated event; (b) for cash, indebtedness, securities, or other property, or (c) in a designated amount or in an amount determined in accordance with a designated formula or by reference to extrinsic data or events;
 
(3) entitle the holders to distributions calculated in any manner, including dividends that may be cumulative, noncumulative, or partially cumulative; and
 
(4) have a preference over any other classes or series with respect to distributions, including dividend and distributions upon the dissolution of the Corporation, all as the Board of Directors may deem advisable.
 
2.    The designation, powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof in respect to shares of Common Stock are as follows:
Common Stock
.
 
A.  .  Except as set forth herein or otherwise required by law, each outstanding share of Common Stock shall be entitled to vote of each matter on which the shareholders of the Corporation shall be entitled to vote, and each holder of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock held by such holder.
Voting Rights
 
B.  .  The Board of Directors of the Corporation may cause dividends or other distributions to be paid to holders of Common Stock out of funds legally available therefor.
Dividends
 
3.    The shareholders of the Corporation shall not have preemptive rights.
Preemptive Rights
.
 
 
 
 
1.    The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at all times contain a majority of members who are not present or former officers or employees of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation and are not members of the immediate family of, controlled by, or under common control with any such officer or employee, unless the members of the Board of Directors are approved by all shares entitled to vote.
Former Employees or Officers as Directors
.
 
2.    The Board of Directors shall have the power to adopt, amend or repeal the bylaws of the Corporation.
Power to Adopt, Amend or Repeal Bylaws
.
 
 
 
 
 
3.    The initial number of directors shall be two. This number may be varied from time to time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, but shall not be less than the minimum number required by the DGCL. For so long as the number of directors shall exceed three (3) directors, the directors elected at any annual meeting of stockholders prior to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2013 shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, all classes shall be as nearly equal in number as possible, and directors of each class shall be elected to hold office for a three-year term and until the election and qualification of their respective successors in office. Notwithstanding the previous sentence of this Section 3 of Article V, at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2013, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014; at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014, the successors of directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2015; and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of his or her term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. Election of directors need not be by ballot unless the bylaws of the Corporation so provide.
Number, Election and Term
.
 
4.    Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors is present. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies
.
 
5.    Any director may be removed from office for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; provided, however, a director may be removed for cause only upon a finding that (i) the director engaged in fraudulent or dishonest conduct, or gross abuse of authority or discretion, with respect to the Corporation, and (ii) removal is in the best interests of the Corporation. Any director may be removed from office for any reason other than cause only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon.
Removal
.
 
6.    Special Meetings of shareholders may be called by the holders of not less than 50% of all shares entitled to vote at the meeting, or by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
.
 
 7.    Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 67 percent of the voting power of all shares of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with, or repeal any provision of this Article V.
Amendment or Repeal of this
 
Article
 
V
.
 
 
 
To the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, as amended from time to time, a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, officer, employee or agent and shall be indemnified against any liability or expense incurred by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, if such person acted in good faith and in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 67 percent of the voting power of all shares of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with, or repeal this Article VI.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation reserves the right to amend this Certificate of Incorporation in any manner permitted by the DGCL, as amended from time to time, and not inconsistent herewith, and all rights and powers conferred herein on shareholders, directors and officers, if any, are subject to this reserved power.
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
1.1       . The principal offices of Coventry Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Corporation), shall be established by the Board of Directors from time to time and shall initially be located at 6705 Rockledge Drive, Suite 900, Bethesda, Maryland 20817.
Principal Offices
 
1.2       . The Corporation also may have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time decide are necessary or proper for the business of the Corporation.
Other Offices
 
 
2.1       . All meetings of the stockholders for any purpose shall be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof. If no place is fixed by the Board of Directors, the meeting shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
Place of Meetings
 
2.2       . Annual meetings of the stockholders shall be held on the third Thursday of May of each year (unless such day shall fall on a legal holiday), in which event such meeting shall be held on the next full business day following such legal holiday or at such time as shall be designated by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of such meeting. At each such annual meeting, the stockholders shall elect a Board of Directors and transact such other business as properly may be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meetings
 
2.3       . Special meetings of the stockholders may be called for any purpose at any time by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Board of Directors, or the holders of a majority in amount of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting.
Special Meetings
 
2.4       . Written notice stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail.
Notice of Meetings
 
2.5       . The holders of a majority of the shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at such meeting, present in person or represented by proxy shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the stockholders.
Quorum of Stockholders
 
2.6       . When a quorum is present at any meeting, other than as set forth in Section 2.7, the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares having voting power, present in person or represented by proxy, shall decide any question brought before such meeting.
Action by Stockholders
 
2.7       . Each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of stock entitled to vote held by such stockholder. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders, unless the vote of a greater or lesser number is required by statute, the Certificate of Incorporation, or the Bylaws, and provided, that the required vote with respect to elections of directors will be as follows:
Voting; Proxies
 
 
 
 
 
A person nominated for election as a director shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast for the director nominee in person or by proxy at a meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that, (i) if the number of nominees to be considered at the meeting exceeds the number of directors to be elected, or (ii) if a stockholder has provided the Corporation notice of a nominee for director in accordance with the advance notice provisions of Section 2.13 of these Bylaws and such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or before the tenth day before the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in person or by proxy at the meeting at which a quorum is present. For purposes of director elections, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted for a nominee exceeds the shares voted against or withheld with respect to the nominee; abstentions and broker non-votes shall not be deemed to be votes cast for purposes of tabulating the vote.
 
Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for that adjourned meeting. If a quorum of a voting group shall not be present or represented at any meeting, the shares entitled to vote thereat shall have power to adjourn the meeting to a different date, time or place without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the new date, time or place to which the meeting is adjourned. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum of any voting group shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted by such voting group which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
 
A stockholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. A stockholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for him or her by signing an appointment either personally or by his or her attorney-in-fact. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes. An appointment is valid for three (3) years unless another period is expressly provided in the appointment form. An appointment of a proxy is revocable by the stockholder unless the appointment form conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and the appointment is coupled with an interest.
 
2.8       . No defect in the calling or noticing of a stockholders meeting will affect the validity of any action at the meeting if a quorum was present, and if each stockholder not present in person or by proxy signs a written waiver of notice, consent to the holding of the meeting, or approval of the minutes, either before or after the meeting, such waivers, consents, or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Consents of Absentees
 
2.9       . The Board of Directors shall fix in advance a record date for the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders. The record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and shall be not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to said meeting.
Record Date Closing Transfer Books
 
2.10      . A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each and the number of voting shares held by each, shall be prepared. Such list, for a period of ten (10) days prior to the meeting, shall be kept on file at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held and shall be subject to inspection by any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during usual business hours. Such list shall be kept open at the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any stockholder.
Stockholder List
 
2.11      . The order of business of each meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations, and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the dismissal of business not properly presented, the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meetings after the time prescribed for commencement thereof, and opening and closing of the voting polls. 
Order of Business
 
 
 
 
 
2.12      . At any meeting of the stockholders, only such business other than a stockholder nomination of a person as a director, which is governed by Section 2.13, and other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of its delivery of the notice required under this Section 2.12, who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.12. For business to be properly brought before a stockholder meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholders notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding years annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than thirty (30) days prior to such anniversary date or delayed more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, then to be timely such notice must be received by the Corporation no later than the close of business on the later of seventy (70) days prior to the date of the meeting or ten (10) days following the day on which public announcement of the date of the meeting was made; and provided, further, that in the case of a special meeting of stockholders, notice must be received by the Corporation no later than ten (10) days following the day on which public announcement of the meeting date was made. (For purposes hereof, public announcement shall be deemed to have been made upon disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, the Associated Press or other national news service or in a document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act.) Such stockholders notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at such meeting; (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporations books, of the stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person covered by clauses (c) and (d) below; (c) the class and number of each class or series of the shares of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by the stockholder and by any Stockholder Associated Person and a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profits interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of such stockholder notice by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the securities of the Corporation and a covenant that the stockholder will notify the Corporation of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting within five days following the later of the record date or the date that the record date is first publicly announced; (d) a representation that such stockholder is a holder of record or beneficial owner of shares entitled to vote at the meeting and intends to appear in person or proxy at the meeting to propose such business; (e) a representation as to whether such stockholder intends to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporations outstanding shares required to approve the proposal and/or otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of the proposal; and (f) any material interest of such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person in such business. The chairman of a stockholder meeting may determine that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Nothing herein shall be deemed to affect (or impose any additional requirement to) a stockholders ability to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporations proxy statement pursuant to rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
Notice of Stockholder Business
 
For purposes hereof, Stockholder Associated Person of any stockholder means (A) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (B) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and (C) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Stockholder Associated Person.
 
The requirements of this Section 2.12 are intended to provide the Corporation with notice of a stockholders intention to bring business before a stockholders meeting and in no event shall be construed as imposing upon any stockholder the requirement to seek approval from the Corporation as a condition precedent to bringing any such business before a stockholders meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 2.13      . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these bylaws shall be eligible for election as directors (other than persons nominated by the Corporation). Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation, who is a stockholder of record at the time of its delivery of the notice required under this Section 2.13, who shall be entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.13. Such stockholder nominations shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholders notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding years annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than thirty (30) days prior to such anniversary date or delayed more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, then to be timely such notice must be received no later than the close of business on the later of seventy (70) days prior to the date of the meeting or ten (10) days following the day on which public announcement of the meeting was made; and, provided further, that in the case of a special meeting of stockholders notice must be received no later than ten (10) days following the day on which public announcement of the meeting was made. Such stockholders notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including such persons written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporations books, of the stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person covered by clauses (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) below; (ii) the class and number of each class or series of the shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and by any Stockholder Associated Person and any derivative positions held of record or beneficially by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding has been made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the Corporations securities and a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profits interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of such stockholder notice by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the securities of the Corporation and a covenant that the stockholder will notify the Corporation of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting within five days following the later of the record date or the date that the record date is first publicly announced; (d) a representation that such stockholder is a holder of record or beneficial owner of shares entitled to vote at the meeting and intends to appear in person or proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; and (e) a representation as to whether the stockholder intends to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporations outstanding capital stock required to approve the nomination and/or otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of the nomination. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholders understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
Nomination of Directors
 
The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. The requirements of this Section 2.13 are intended to provide the Corporation with notice of a stockholders intention to nominate a person for election as director at a stockholders meeting and in no event shall be construed as imposing upon any stockholder the requirement to seek approval from the Corporation as a condition precedent to making such a nomination. 
 
2.14      . Action required or permitted by statute to be taken at a stockholders meeting may be taken without a meeting if a written consent, delivered to the Corporation, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
Action Without a Meeting
 
2.15      . Meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive Officer is not present, by the President, or if the Chief Executive Officer and the President are not present, by a chairman chosen by a majority of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting. The Secretary or, in his absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary of every meeting, but if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, a majority of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting shall choose any person present to act as secretary of the meeting.
Presiding Officer and Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
3.1       . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors, which may exercise all powers of the Corporation and do all lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. The Board of Directors shall constitute the governing body of the Corporation and shall be responsible to the stockholders for setting policy, long range planning and providing oversight of the management of the Corporation.
Powers of Directors
 
3.2       . The number of directors, which shall constitute the Board of Directors, shall be not less than three directors and may increase to such other number of Directors as shall be determined, from time to time, by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. No decrease shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director.
Number and Qualification
 
3.3       . For so long as the number of directors shall exceed three (3) directors, the directors elected at any annual meeting of stockholders prior to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2013 shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, all classes shall be as nearly equal in number as possible, and directors of each class shall be elected to hold office for a three-year term and until the election and qualification of their respective successors in office. Notwithstanding the previous sentence of this Section 3.3, at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2013, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014; at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014, the successors of directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2015; and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of his or her term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.  Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation or residents of the State of Delaware.
Election and Term
 
3.4       . Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors by reason of death, resignation, or removal shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors entitled to vote although the remaining directors constitute less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified. Any directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be filled by election at a regular meeting or a special meeting of the Board of Directors called for that purpose, or at an annual meeting or a special meeting of stockholders called for that purpose.
Filling Vacancies
 
3.5       . Any director may resign at any time by delivering a written resignation to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. If no such specification is made, it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. 
Resignation of Directors
 
3.6       . Any director may be removed from the Board of Directors at any time for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to be cast for the election of directors; provided, however, a director may be removed for cause only upon a finding that (i) the director engaged in fraudulent or dishonest conduct, or gross abuse of authority or discretion, with respect to the Corporation, and (ii) removal is in the best interests of the Corporation. Directors of the Corporation may be removed for any reason other than cause only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon.
Removal of Directors
 
3.7       . Regular or special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held either within or without the State of Delaware.
Place of Meetings
 
3.8       . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if one be elected by the Board of Directors, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall have such other powers and duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors, upon written direction given to such Chairman pursuant to resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
 
 
 
 
 
3.9       . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. The Board shall meet at least annually. At such meetings, the Board shall ensure that the officers or other management personnel of the Corporation report on managements progress in carrying out the policies of the Board and shall discuss managements recommendations for changes in policy.
Regular Meetings
 
3.10      . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and shall be called by the Secretary on the written request of two (2) directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given to each director at least three (3) days before the date of the meeting.
Special Meetings
 
3.11      . At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum of Directors
 
3.12      . The Board of Directors by resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may from time to time designate members of the Board of Directors to constitute committees, including an executive committee, a finance committee, compensation committee, audit and nominating committee, which shall in each case consist of not less than three (3) directors and have and may exercise such powers as the Board of Directors may determine and specify in the respective resolutions appointing them. A majority of all the members of any such committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of any meeting, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise direct. The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to change the number and the members of any such committee, to fill vacancies and to discharge any such committee but shall not execute this power in violation of the provisions of any agreement between the Corporation and any of its stockholders.
Committees
 
3.13      . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the actions so taken, is signed by all the members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be.
Action by Written Consent
 
3.14      . By resolution of the Board of Directors, the directors may be paid their expenses, if any, for attending each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attending each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary for serving as a director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefore. Members of the executive committee or of special or standing committees may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings. 
Compensation of Directors
 
3.15      . The Board of Directors shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and such minutes shall be placed in the minute book of the Corporation. Committees of the Board of Directors shall maintain a separate record of the minutes of their proceedings.
Minutes of Meetings
 
 
4.1       . Any notice to directors or stockholders shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or electronic mail or mailed to the directors or stockholders at their respective addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Notice by mail shall be deemed to be given at the time of delivery if in person or when such notice shall be sent or deposited in the United States mail, postage paid.
Method of Giving Notice
 
4.2       . Any notice required to be given may be subject to a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to receive such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice in a timely manner. Any such signed waiver of notice, or a signed copy thereof, shall be placed in the minute book of the Corporation. Attendance of such persons at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meetings, except where there persons attend for the express purpose of objecting that the meeting is not lawfully convened.
Waiver of Notice
 
 
 
 
 
4.3       . If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present is the act of the Board of Directors, unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws require the vote of a greater number of directors. A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors when corporate action is taken is deemed to have assented to such action unless:
Voting
 
(i)        the director objects at the beginning of the meeting (or promptly upon arrival) to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting;
 
(ii)       the directors dissent or abstention from the action taken is entered in the minutes of the meeting; or
 
(iii)the director delivers written notice of the directors dissent or abstention to the presiding officer of the meeting before its adjournment or to the Corporation immediately after adjournment of the meeting. The right of dissent or abstention is not available to a director who votes in favor of the action taken.
 
 
 
4.4       . Subject to the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL) or these bylaws for notice, stockholders, members of the Board of Directors, or members of any committee designated by such Board of Directors, may participate in and hold a meeting of such stockholders, Board of Directors, or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 4.4 of Article 4 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Telephone Meetings
 
4.5       . All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation, or any other place within or without this State, as may be designated for that purpose from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meetings
 
 
5.1       . The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation or residents of the State of Delaware. The Board of Directors shall elect a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, a President, a Treasurer, a Secretary and such other officers, including a Chairman of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents and assistant officers as the Board of Directors may deem desirable. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person, except that the offices of President and Secretary may not be held by the same person. 
Qualifications
 
5.2       . The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall have the power to enter into contracts for the employment and compensation of officers on such terms as the Board of Directors deems advisable. No officer shall be disqualified from receiving a salary or other compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the Corporation.
Compensation of Officers
 
5.3       . The officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are elected or appointed and qualified, or until their death, resignation, or removal from office. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal, or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Term and Vacancies
 
5.4       . An officer may resign at any time by delivering notice to the Corporation. Such resignation is effective when such notice is delivered unless such notice specifies a later effective date. An officers resignation does not affect the Corporations contract rights, if any, with the officer. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors.
Removal of Officers
 
 
 
 
 
5.5       . The Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize any officer to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or in any amount.
General Authority of Officers
 
5.6       . The Chief Executive Officer shall have overall supervision of the active management of the Company, including its direction, administration and leadership, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The Chief Executive Officer may call meetings of the stockholders or directors as provided in these bylaws.
Duties of the Chief Executive Officer
 
5.7       . The President shall perform such duties and have such authority and powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may prescribe. The President may call meetings of the stockholders as provided in these bylaws. If the President is not the Chief Executive Officer, the President in the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer shall perform the duties and have the authority of the Chief Executive Officer.
Duties of the President
 
5.8       . The Chief Financial Officer shall supervise the Companys finance, investment, actuarial and accounting functions, shall report to the Chief Executive Officer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may prescribe.
Duties of the Chief Financial Officer
 
5.9       . The Company shall have such Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. They shall perform such other duties and have such other authority and powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe, or as the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time determine.
Duties of Vice Presidents
 
5.10      . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders and record all business transacted at such meetings in a minute book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the standing committee when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. The Secretary shall take and keep custody of the seal of the Corporation and, when authorized by the Board of Directors, shall affix the same to any instrument requiring it and, when so affixed, it shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of an assistant Secretary or of the Treasurer.
Duties of Secretary
 
5.11      . The assistant secretaries, in the order of their seniority, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and have the authority and exercise the powers of the Secretary. They shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or as the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary from time to time may delegate. 
Duties of Assistant Secretaries
 
5.12      . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the Corporations funds and securities, shall keep full and accurate accounts and records of receipts, disbursements and other transactions in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all funds and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors at the regular meetings of the Board, or whenever they may require it, an account of all the Treasurers transactions as Treasurer and of the financial conditions of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties and have such other authority as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe, or as the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time delegate.
Duties of Treasurer
 
 
 
 
 
5.13      . The assistant treasurers in the order of their seniority, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and have the authority and exercise the powers of the Treasurer. They shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or as the Chief Executive Officer or Treasurer may from time to time delegate.
Duties of Assistant Treasurer
 
5.14      . All documents, instruments or writings of any nature shall be signed, executed, verified, acknowledged and delivered by such officer or officers or such agents of the Corporation and in such manner as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine. All notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, endorsements, and all evidence of indebtedness of the Corporation whatsoever, shall be signed by such officer or officers or such agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine. Endorsements for deposit to the credit of the Corporation in any of its duly authorized depositories shall be made in such manner as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Execution of Instruments
 
 
6.1       . The shares of the Corporations stock may be certificated or un-certificated, as provided under Delaware law, and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as the Board of Directors shall prescribe, certifying the number and class of shares of the stock of the Corporation owned by the stockholder. Any certificates issued to any stockholder of the Corporation shall bear the name of the Corporation and state that it is organized under the laws of Delaware, the name of the stockholder, and the number and class (and the designation of the series, if any) of the shares represented. Where applicable, any certificate issued to any Stockholder of the Corporation shall also summarize the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations applicable to each class of stock and the variations in rights, preferences, and limitations determined for each series of stock (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series). Each certificate shall be signed either manually or by facsimile, by (i) the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President and (ii) by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and shall be sealed with the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile thereof. If the person who signed a share certificate, either manually or in facsimile, no longer holds office when the certificate is issued, then the certificate is nevertheless valid. Where required under Delaware law, within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of un-certificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall set forth the name of the Corporation, that the Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware, the name of the stockholder, the number and class (and the designation of the series, if any) of the shares represented, and any restrictions on the transfer or registration of such shares of stock imposed by the Corporations articles of incorporation, these Bylaws, any agreement among stockholders or any agreement between stockholders and the Corporation. The written notice shall also set forth any the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations applicable to each class of stock and the variations in rights, preferences, and limitations determined for each series of stock (and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series). 
Forms of Certificates
 
6.2       . Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of un-certificated shares to the stockholder entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon the Corporations books. Upon the surrender of any certificate for transfer of stock, such certificate shall at once be conspicuously marked on its face Cancelled and filed with the permanent stock records of the Corporation. Upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of un-certificated shares, such un-certificated shares shall be cancelled, issuance of new equivalent un-certificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the stockholder entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. If the Corporation has a transfer agent or registrar acting on its behalf, the signature of any officer or representative thereof may be in facsimile. The Board of Directors may appoint a transfer agent and one or more co-transfer agents and registrar and one or more co-registrars and may make or authorize such agent to make all such rules and regulations deemed expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock.
Transfer of Shares
 
6.3       . The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of any share or shares of stock in the Corporation as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any person, whether or not it has express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law or by any stock purchase and redemption agreement to which the stock may be subject, if such agreement has been formally executed or accepted by the Corporation.
Record Ownership Conclusive
 
 
 
 
 
6.4       . Any person claiming a share certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed shall make an affidavit or affirmation of the fact in such manner as the Board of Directors may require and shall, if the Board of Directors so requires, give the Corporation a bond of indemnity in form and amount, and with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Board of Directors, as the Board of Directors may require, whereupon the Corporation may issue (i) a new certificate or certificates of stock or (ii) un-certificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates previously issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Replacement of Certificates
 
 
7.1       . Dividends may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and to the laws of the State of Delaware. The declaration and payment of dividends shall be at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Dividends
 
7.2       . The Corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of account and shall keep minutes of the proceedings of its stockholders and Board of Directors, and shall keep at its registered office or principal place of business, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar, a record of its stockholders, giving the name and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of the shares held by each.
Records
 
7.3       . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
 
7.4       . The Corporations seal shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any manner reproduced.
Seal
 
7.5       . Unless otherwise required by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President shall execute contracts or other instruments on behalf of and in the name of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may from time to time authorize any other officer, assistant officer or agent to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation as it may deem appropriate, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
 
7.6       . No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. 
Loans
 
7.7       . Unless otherwise required by the Board of Directors, all checks, drafts, bills of exchange and other negotiable instruments of the Corporation shall be signed by either the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President or such other officer, assistant officer or agent of the Corporation as may be authorized so to do by the Board of Directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific business, and, if so directed by the Board, the signatures of two or more such officers may be required.
Checks, Drafts, Etc
 
7.8       . All funds of the Company not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or other depositories as the Board of Directors may authorize.
Deposits
 
7.9       . Unless otherwise required by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of security holders, or to take action on written consent as a security holder, of other corporations in which the Corporation may hold securities. In connection therewith the Chief Executive Officer shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities which the Corporation possesses. The Board of Directors may, from time to time, confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Voting Securities Held by the Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
8.1       . The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or was or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent (including without limitation members of advisory boards of health care organizations and other facilities owned by the Corporation and physicians serving on medical staff committees of such health care organizations) of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or not taken by such person while acting in any such capacity, against expenses (including attorneys fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (whether with or without court approval) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful. 
Third Party Proceedings
 
8.2       . The Corporation shall indemnify any person who is or was a party or is or was threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent (including without limitation members of advisory boards of hospitals and other facilities owned by the Corporation and physicians serving on medical staff committees of such hospitals) of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or not taken by him while acting in any such capacity, against expenses (including attorneys fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation. The termination of any such threatened or actual action or suit by a settlement or by an adverse judgment or order shall not of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation. Nevertheless, there shall be no indemnification with respect to expenses incurred in connection with any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duty to the Corporation unless, and only to the extent that, the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
Actions By or In the Right of the Corporation
 
8.3       . To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or a person serving in any other enterprises at the request of the Corporation, shall have been successful on the merits or otherwise in defending against any threatened or actual action, suit or proceeding referred to in Section 8.1 hereof or any threatened or actual action or suit referred to in Section 8.2 hereof, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against all expenses (including attorneys fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
Absolute Right
 
8.4       . Any indemnification under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 hereof (unless ordered by a court), shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific cases upon a determination that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because the person claiming indemnification has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in such Sections. Such determination shall be made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit, or proceeding, or (ii) if such quorum is not obtainable, or even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders.
Determination of Conduct
 
8.5       .
Payment of Expenses in Advance
 
 
 
 
 
8.6       . The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article.
Insurance
 
8.7       . The indemnification provided hereunder shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any other bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or engaged in any other enterprise at the request of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Indemnity Not Exclusive
 
8.8       . Each person who shall act as an authorized representative of the Corporation shall be deemed to be doing so in reliance upon rights of indemnification provided by this Article 8.
Reliance on Provisions
 
8.9        For purposes of this Article:
Definitions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.1       . The power to alter, amend, or repeal these bylaws or adopt new bylaws shall be vested in the Board of Directors. The stockholders may not amend, delete or otherwise alter these bylaws except upon the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 67% of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon.
Amendment
 


