FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120312091905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
SECTION 8  OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 8.01  Other Events
On March 12, 2012, Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend to its shareholders.  An initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.125 per common share will be paid on April 9, 2012 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 23, 2012.  Future declarations of quarterly dividends will be subject to the approval of the Companys Board of Directors.  A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
BETHESDA, Md. (March 12, 2012)  Coventry Health Care, Inc. (NYSE: CVH) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend to its shareholders.
 
An initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.125 per common share will be paid on April 9, 2012 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 23, 2012. Future declarations of quarterly dividends will be subject to the approval of Coventrys Board of Directors.
 
We are very pleased to announce the first cash dividend paid to shareholders in the Companys history, said Allen F. Wise, chairman and chief executive officer of Coventry. This dividend reflects Coventrys commitment to effective capital deployment and to growing shareholder value.  The quality and strength of our balance sheet provides the flexibility to continue to pursue strategic growth opportunities and maintain our share repurchase program while also returning capital to shareholders in the form of a dividend.  We continue to be optimistic about our long-term growth prospects and remain committed to investing the majority of our deployable capital towards the pursuit of future growth opportunities.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance, including the guidance herein. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventrys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and Coventrys subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Coventry Health Care (www.coventryhealthcare.com) is a diversified national managed healthcare company based in Bethesda, Maryland, operating health plans, insurance companies, network rental and workers compensation services companies.  Coventry provides a full range of risk and fee-based managed care products and services to a broad cross section of individuals, employer and government-funded groups, government agencies, and other insurance carriers and administrators.
 
 


