FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20121120171124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 14, 2012, the Compensation Committee ("the Committee") of the Board of Directors of Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") approved amendments to the Coventry Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan ("Incentive Plan") and the 2012 Coventry Executive Management Plan (the "EMIP"), which provides for the grant of performance awards under the Incentive Plan. The amendments provide that performance awards payable in respect of the 2012 fiscal year may be paid at any time following the date on which the Committee certifies that the applicable performance goals have been met; provided that all such payments must be made prior to March 15, 2013.
Pursuant to the amendments to the Incentive Plan and the EMIP, Coventry anticipates that it will be able to certify the achievement of performance goals and pay performance awards under the EMIP on or prior to the final day of the performance period. The Committee's decision to adopt the amendments was made in order to mitigate adverse tax consequences for Coventry under Section 162(m)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Incentive Plan and EMIP does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendments, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are defined as statements that are not historical facts and include those statements relating to future events or future financial performance. Actual performance may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties including those described in Coventry's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, Coventry's Quarterly Report for the quarter ending September 30, 2012, and Coventry's subsequent filings with the SEC. Among the risk factors that may materially affect Coventry's business, operations or financial condition are the ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs; the ability to increase premiums to offset increases in Coventry's health care costs; general economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets; changes in legal requirements from recently enacted federal or state laws or regulations, court decisions, or government investigations or proceedings; guaranty fund assessments under state insurance guaranty association law; changes in government funding and various other risks associated with our participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs; our ability to effectively implement and manage our Kentucky Medicaid program, including the implementation of appropriate risk adjustment revenue and management of the associated medical cost and the effect on our MLR; a reduction in the number of members in Coventry's health plans; Coventry's ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and Coventry's ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into its operations; an ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain premium rates; the non-renewal or termination of Coventry's government contracts, unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies or renewal of government contracts on less than favorable terms; failure of independent agents and brokers to continue to market Coventry's products to employers; a failure to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers that could result in higher medical costs and a decrease in membership; negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally or Coventry in particular; a failure to effectively protect, maintain, and develop our information technology systems; compromises of Coventry's data security; periodic reviews, audits and investigations under Coventry's contracts with federal and state government agencies; litigation, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories; volatility in Coventry's stock price and trading volume; Coventry's indebtedness, which imposes certain restrictions on its business and operations; an inability to generate sufficient cash to service Coventry's indebtedness; Coventry's ability to receive cash from its regulated subsidiaries; an impairment of Coventry's intangible assets; Coventry's certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, which could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of Coventry that its stockholders may consider favorable; and the failure to complete the merger with Aetna. Coventry undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment (the "") to the Coventry Health Care, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan (the " ") as adopted by shareholders of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "") is made as of November 14, 2012. All capitalized terms used and not defined herein have the meaning associated with such terms in the Incentive Plan.
Amendment
Incentive
Plan
Company
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.4 of the Incentive Plan, the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors (the "") of the Company must certify in writing whether performance targets applicable to Performance Awards granted pursuant to the Incentive Plan have been achieved prior to the payment thereof;
Committee
Board
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 13 of the Incentive Plan, the Board may amend the Incentive Plan at any time, subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders under certain circumstances set forth therein;
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and the Participants under the Incentive Plan to amend the Incentive Plan as it applies to Performance Awards granted with respect to the Company's 2012 fiscal year to provide the Committee with the discretion to cause all or such applicable portion of such Performance Awards to be paid prior to the end of the performance period in the event the Committee is able to make the certification described in Section 9.4 of the Incentive Plan prior to the end of the performance period;
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that such an amendment to the Incentive Plan is not an amendment that would require shareholder approval pursuant to Section 13 of the Incentive Plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
1. Subject to paragraph 4 below, Section 8.3 of the Incentive Plan is amended by striking the first sentence thereof and replacing it with the following: "Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments upon certification by the Committee that the applicable performance goals have been achieved or, in accordance with the procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis."
2. Subject to paragraph 4, Section 9.4 of the Incentive Plan is amended by striking the second sentence thereof and replacing it with the following: "Prior to the payment or settlement of the Performance Award, the Committee shall certify in writing whether the applicable performance targets have been achieved and the amounts, if any, payable to Covered Officers for such performance period."
3. In no event shall payment or settlement of any portion of a Performance Award occur after March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the performance period ends.
4. This Amendment shall be effective only for Performance Awards relating to the 2012 fiscal year of the Company.
5. Except as expressly modified in this Amendment, the terms and conditions of the Incentive Plan shall remain in full force and effect.

Exhibit 10.2
This Amendment (the "") to the 2012 Coventry Health Care, Inc. Executive Management Incentive Plan (the "") as adopted by the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors (the "") of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "") at a meeting held on January 26, 2012, is made as of November 14, 2012. All capitalized terms used and not defined herein have the meaning associated with such terms in the Plan.
Amendment
Plan
Committee
Board
Company
WHEREAS, the Company's shareholders have previously adopted the Coventry Health Care, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan (the "");
Incentive Plan
WHEREAS, the Board adopted that certain Amendment to Coventry Health Care, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan Amendment (the "") as of November 14, 2012;
Incentive Plan Amendment
WHEREAS, the Committee adopted the Plan to provide for the grant of Performance Awards to be administered under the Incentive Plan;
WHEREAS, the Plan provides for the payment of certain Incentive Awards upon the achievement of actual Performance Measurement in excess of Performance Thresholds that were established by the Committee with respect to the Company's performance during the Company's 2012 fiscal year;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.4 of the Incentive Plan, as amended, the Committee must certify in writing whether the performance targets applicable to the relevant Performance Award have been achieved prior to the payment thereof;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.2 of the Incentive Plan, the Committee has the authority to amend specific provisions of Performance Awards granted thereunder, as long as such amendments do not adversely affect existing Performance Awards;
WHEREAS, the Committee has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and the participants under the Plan to amend the Plan to provide the Committee with the discretion to cause all or any portion of an Incentive Award granted pursuant to the Plan to be paid prior to the end of the performance period in the event the Committee is able to make the certification described in Section 9.4 of the Incentive Plan prior to such payment;
WHEREAS, the Committee has determined that such an amendment will not adversely affect existing Performance Awards;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
1. New Section 5(g) is hereby appended to the Plan:
(g) . The Committee may provide for the payment of all or any part of a Incentive Award at any time following the date on which it certifies that the Performance Measurement has exceeded the applicable Performance Threshold in accordance with Section 9.4 of the Incentive Plan; provided, that all payments pursuant to the Performance Awards shall be made prior to March 15, 2013.
Payment
2. This Amendment shall be effective only for Performance Awards relating to the 2012 fiscal year of the Company.
3. Except as expressly modified in this Amendment, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.


