FILE:CVH/CVH-8K-20120531133338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Item 5.02.        Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On May 29, 2012 (the "Resignation Date"), Kevin Conlin resigned as Executive Vice President, Networks and Medical Management of Coventry Health Care, Inc. (the "Company"). In connection with his resignation, the Company and Mr. Conlin entered into a Separation Agreement and Release (the "Agreement") setting forth the terms of Mr. Conlin's departure from the Company. Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Conlin resigned from all active services as an employee as of the Resignation Date. In addition, Mr. Conlin is entitled to receive a lump sum payment equal to $75,000 and a release from the Company for any obligation on the part of Mr. Conlin to repay any relocation expenses associated with his initial hiring. The Agreement also includes a one-year non-compete commencing as of the Resignation Date and a release by Mr. Conlin of any claims he may have against the Company.
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Effective May 25, 2012, the Company appointed Michael D. Bahr, age 53, an Executive Vice President of the Company, to the position of Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
Mr. Bahr was elected Executive Vice President of the Company in August 2009. From September 2003 to September 2009, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Utah health plan. Mr. Bahr is an associate of the Society of Actuaries and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.
 
On May 24, 2012, the Company granted performance share unit ("PSU") awards to named executive officers Randy P. Giles and Michael D. Bahr in the amounts of 33,522 and 61,458, respectively, pursuant to the Company's Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Pursuant to the Award Agreement (as defined below), Messrs. Giles and Bahr are eligible to receive a number of PSUs ranging from 0% to 150% of the initial grant amount.
The PSUs represent hypothetical shares of the Company's common stock. The holders of PSUs have no rights as shareholders with respect to the shares of the Company's common stock to which the awards relate. The PSUs will (a) be earned based upon the Company's achievement of certain aggregate earnings per share and cumulative revenue growth goals for the 2012-2013 period ending December 31, 2013, (b) to the extent earned, vest in equal 1/3 increments on December 31, 2013, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, and (c) to the extent vested, be payable if the award recipient is actively and continuously employed with the Company up to and including the date the awards are paid out. Generally, all such awards that vest will be paid in a dollar amount equal to the number of vested PSUs multiplied by the average closing price of the Company's common stock for the trading days from December 15 of the year of the applicable vesting date through January 15 of the year following the applicable vesting date, minus any withholding for taxes.
If the holder of PSUs terminates service as an employee of the Company for any reason, all PSUs not yet vested and paid will be forfeited, unless such termination is the result of death or Disability (as defined in the Plan), in which case all the earned but unvested PSUs will immediately vest. In the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan) on or before December 31, 2013, 100% of the original grant of the PSUs will vest as of the date the Change in Control is deemed to have occurred, and, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company after December 31, 2013, all earned but unvested PSUs will vest as of the date the Change in Control is deemed to have occurred.
The above summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Company's form of 2012 PSU award agreement (the "Award Agreement"), which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
A. "," "," and "," mean both me and anyone who has or obtains any legal rights or claims through me, including but not limited to, my spouse, heirs, assigns, representatives, and executors.
I
me
my
B. "" means Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("CHC"), and any of its current or former employees, servants, agents, representatives, heirs, executors, administrators, officers, directors, masters, partners or partnerships, joint venture partners, affiliated organizations, divisions, committees, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, predecessors, successors, assigns, insurer, underwriters, legal representatives, new entities created through merger or acquisition that include any of the preceding, or all of them; any present past employee benefit plan sponsored by Employer and/or the directors, officers, trustees, administrators, employees, attorneys, agents, or representatives of that plan; any company providing insurance to Employer in the present or past; and any person who acted on behalf of or on instructions from Employer.
Employer
C. "" means all of my existing rights, as of the date of my execution of this Release, to any relief of any kind from Employer, whether or not I know about those rights, including but not limited to:
My Claims
(1) all claims arising out of or relating to my past employment with Employer, the termination of that employment, or the statements or actions of Employer;
(2) all claims under any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation, including but not limited to, claims for any alleged unlawful discrimination or any other alleged unlawful employment practices under, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; Maryland Human Relations Commissions Act, Maryland Ann. Code art. 49(B) et seq., Maryland Code Ann. Labor and Employment 3-307 et seq., the Civil Rights Act of 1991; the Civil Rights Act of 1886; the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended; the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993; the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009; the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, as amended; and the Genetic Nondiscrimination Act of 2008;
Separation Agreement and Release
Page 2 of 7
 
(3) all claims under any principle of common law, including but not limited to, claims for alleged unpaid salary, overtime, and bonuses, harassment, retaliation or reprisal, assault or battery, defamation, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, invasion of privacy, false imprisonment, fraud, intentional or negligent misrepresentation, interference with contractual or business relationships, violation of public policy, my conduct, if any, as a "whistleblower", negligence, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, promissory or equitable estoppel, and any other wrongful employment practices;
(4) all claims for any type of relief from the Employer, including but not limited to, claims for back pay, front pay, lost benefits, reinstatement, liquidated damages, multiple damages, punitive damages, and damages for any alleged breach of contract, any tort claim, or any alleged personal injury or emotional injury or damage, whether or not compensable under any workers' compensation statutes; and
(5) all claims for attorneys' fees, costs, and disbursements.
(6) "My Claims" do include (i) my vested rights, if any, in Employer's Select Savings 401(k) Plan, Employer's 401(k) Restoration and Deferred Compensation (RESTORE) Plan, or any vested equity awards (ii) all of CHC's obligations to me pursuant to this Release, all of which survive unaffected by this Release.
not
 
A. If I decide to voluntarily sign this Release, I will be granted the following benefits by Employer:
(a) Employer will forgive my obligation to re-pay associated relocation expenses I incurred as part of my employment with Coventry; and
(b) Employer will pay me a lump-sum payment of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000), less applicable taxes for miscellaneous costs and expenses related to my termination of employment. This payment shall be made within 10 business days after my execution date of this Release.
Separation Agreement and Release
Page 3 of 7
 
As of my last day of employment, I am no longer authorized to incur any expenses, obligations or liabilities on behalf of Employer, handle any Employer business, or direct employee activities.
I may keep any copies or duplicates of reports or papers, I now have which are directly related to my personnel records or required for preparation of my personal income tax return. I represent that I will return all Employer property, including reports, files, records, cell phone, computers or peripheral equipment, SecurID cards, software, security passcards, keys, computer codes, manuals and other physical or personal property which I received or prepared or helped prepare in connection with my employment with Employer. Each party agrees not to make negative comments to current or future professional colleagues, prospective or potential employers, members of the health care community, or others about the other party which could result in damage to the reputation of the other party, recognizing that to do so will result in the use of allowable legal recourse by the other party. I also agree, that for a period of thirty (30) days after my Termination Date, as a condition of receiving severance and the other consideration described in this Release, to fully cooperate with and consult with Employer, either by telephone or in person to clarify or analyze issues, locate materials or review projects with which I was associated, as needed, to effect a reasonable transition of ongoing business activities.
 
 
 
Separation Agreement and Release
Page 4 of 7
 
In addition, I agree, in exchange for the payment being made to me pursuant to paragraph 2, that for a period of 12 months after my Termination Date, I will not disclose to any person, other than an employee of the Employer, or except where such disclosure may be required by law, any material confidential information that I obtained while in the employ of Coventry about any of its products, services, pricing, technology, know-how or the like, customers, methods, or future plans, all of which I acknowledge are valuable, special, and unique assets, the disclosure of which would materially damage Employer.
 
 
Separation Agreement and Release
Page 5 of 7
 
 
 
 
 
Separation Agreement and Release
Page 6 of 7
 
If I decide to accept the terms of this Release, I must send the signed and dated Release by first-class mail, or deliver it by hand or courier, to the address given below within the twenty-one (21) day period that I have to consider signing this Release.
The Employer has informed me and I also understand and acknowledge that after I sign this Release, I may change my mind within a seven (7) day period, not counting the day on which I signed it, and revoke my acceptance of it. In order for my revocation to be effective, I understand and acknowledge that it must be in writing and mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, or delivered by hand or courier, to Employer at the following address and postmarked or received by Employer within the seven (7) day period:
Coventry Health Care, Inc.
Attention: Steve Barley
6705 Rockledge Drive, Suite 900
Bethesda, Maryland 20817
I understand and acknowledge that I will not receive any payment under this Release if I revoke it, and in any event, I will not receive any payment until after the seven (7) day revocation period has expired.
 
Separation Agreement and Release
Page 7 of 7
 
I FURTHER UNDERSTAND THAT FOR A PERIOD OF SEVEN (7) DAYS FOLLOWING THE SIGNING OF THIS RELEASE AND WAIVER OF CLAIMS AND RIGHTS, I MAY REVOKE IT BY FOLLOWING THE DIRECTIONS IN PARAGRAPH 13 OF THIS DOCUMENT AND THE RELEASE AND WAIVER OF RIGHTS AND CLAIMS WILL NOT BE EFFECTIVE UNTIL SEVEN (7) DAYS AFTER I SIGN IT.
 

Exhibit 10.2
("Agreement") is made and entered into as of                     , 20     by and between ., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") and ("Holder").
THIS PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT
COVENTRY HEALTH CARE, INC
                    
1.            . The Company hereby awards Holder Performance Share Units (collectively, "PSUs", singularly, "PSU"), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan. If the terms of this Agreement conflict with or are inconsistent with the terms of the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan shall control. Defined terms used herein and not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan.
Award
                
2.            . A PSU is a hypothetical share of the Company's common stock. The value of a PSU on any given date shall be equal to the closing market price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of such date. A PSU does not represent an equity interest in the Company, carries no voting rights and is not entitled to receive dividends. The Holder shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to the hypothetical shares of the Company's common stock to which this award relates.
Definition of PSU
3.            :
Restrictions, Performance Goals and Conditions
(a) Commencing with the date hereof, the Holder agrees that Holder has no right to, and shall not, sell, transfer, pledge or assign, in whole or in part, the PSUs. Except as set forth herein, the PSUs (x) shall not be earned until the performance goal(s) set forth herein shall have been attained and (y) shall not vest until the required time period with respect to the PSUs shall have lapsed.
Restrictions.
 
(b) 
2012-2013 Cumulative Performance Goals.
 
 
(c) Except as set forth herein, upon the attainment of the performance goal(s) set forth in subsection 3(b)(i) and the determination of the number of PSUs, if any, ultimately awarded to Holder in accordance with subsection 3(b)(ii) (the "Restricted PSUs"), the Restricted PSUs shall be subject to forfeiture until payout of the PSUs in accordance with Section 5 hereof. The Restricted PSUs shall vest in equal 1/3 increments on December 31, 2013, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015 (each a "Vesting Date").
Vesting.
(d)  Holder must be actively and continuously employed by the Company at the time of payout of the PSUs. In the event of the termination of Holder's service as an employee of the Company for any reason during the term of this Agreement and prior to payout of any PSUs, the PSUs (to the extent not already paid out) shall be forfeited and this Agreement shall become null and void.
Forfeiture.
(e) . Notwithstanding Subsections 3(c) and 3(d), above, if Holder's termination of service as an employee of the Company is the result of Holder's death or Disability, all Restricted PSUs shall immediately vest as of the date of Holder's death or Disability. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company on or before December 31, 2013, 100% of the original grant of the PSUs set forth in Section 1 shall vest as of the date the Change in Control is deemed to have occurred, and, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company after December 31, 2013, all Restricted PSUs as to which restrictions have not lapsed shall vest as of the date the Change in Control in deemed to have occurred.
Death, Disability or Change in Control of the Company
 
4.             . In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, extraordinary cash dividend, stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate structure affecting the Company's common stock, such substitution or adjustment shall be made in the number of PSUs as may be determined to be appropriate by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, provided that the number of PSUs subject to any award shall always be a whole number. Additional shares of PSUs shall be subject to the same restrictions and other terms and conditions that apply to the original shares of PSUs with respect to which such adjustments are made.
Adjustments
5.            .
Payment
(a) All payments under this Agreement shall be made in cash, subject to the restrictions set forth in the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan, including any limitations on the maximum annual amount of cash settled performance awards that can be earned in any performance period. As soon as reasonably practicable after vesting in accordance with Section 3(c) hereof, the Restricted PSUs shall be paid to Holder if Holder is actively and continuously employed with the Company at the time of payout. The amount of cash that shall be paid to Holder shall equal the number of Restricted PSUs earned and vested multiplied by the average closing market price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the trading days from December 15 of the year of the applicable Vesting Date through January 15 of the year following the applicable Vesting Date, minus any withholding for taxes.
(b) If Holder's employment terminates as a result of Holder's death or Disability, the amount of cash that shall be paid to Holder or Holder's beneficiaries shall equal the number of Restricted PSUs (to the extent not already paid out) multiplied by the average closing market price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the thirty trading days preceding the date of death or Disability, minus withholding taxes. In the event of a Change in Control of the Company, the amount of cash that shall be paid to Holder shall equal the number of PSUs that vest upon a Change in Control in accordance with Section 3(e) hereof multiplied by the average closing market price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the thirty trading days preceding the date a Change in Control of the Company is deemed to have occurred, minus any withholding for taxes.
6.            . The Holder's rights hereunder shall not be transferable otherwise than as provided in the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan, and the terms thereof shall be binding on the executors, administrators, heirs and successors of Holder.
Non transferability
7.             Holder acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement and the PSUs awarded hereunder are subject to the Company's Executive Incentive Compensation Recoupment Policy, as currently in effect or as hereinafter amended.
Executive Incentive Compensation Recoupment Policy.
8.            . Defined terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan.
Defined Terms
9.            . This Agreement may be amended as provided in the Amended and Restated 2004 Incentive Plan. This Agreement shall be governed by Delaware law.
Amendment: Choice of Law


