FILE:MS/MS-8K-20030530151555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") recently issued Regulation G and amended Item 10 of Regulation S-K concerning the use of non-GAAP financial measures. These regulations became effective March 28, 2003. Subsequent to its last fiscal year ended but prior to the effective date of the regulations, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2002 (the "Form 10-K") and two Current Reports on Form 8-K (the "Current Reports") that included financial information. In anticipation of the filing of one or more registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 that will incorporate such reports by reference, the Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K solely for the purpose of conforming certain information included in the Form 10-K and the Current Reports to the new requirements of Regulation G and Item 10 of Regulation S-K.
 
Reconciliation for certain information disclosed on page 23 of the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2002:
 
Reconciliation of Return on Average Common Shareholders' Equity for Fiscal 2001
(unaudited)
 
 
 
On page 51 of the Form 10-K, the Company disclosed its total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios at November 30, 2001. Balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company's overall liquidity and capital policies. The Company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. This ratio is adjusted to reflect the low-risk nature of assets attributable to matched resale agreements, certain securities borrowed transactions and segregated customer cash balances. In addition, the adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders' equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill, as the Company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs. Set forth below is a reconciliation of the Company's adjusted assets at November 30, 2001.
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Assets
(unaudited, dollars in millions, except ratio data)
 
 
 
Reconciliation for certain information disclosed on pages 6, 7, F-7, F-10 and F-12 of Exhibit 99.1 of the Company's Current Report on  Form 8-K dated December 19, 2002 and page 4 and pages 13, 14, 19, 20, 24 and 25 of the financial section of Exhibit 99.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 20, 2003:
 
The data below is presented on both a "managed" loan basis and as reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("owned" loan basis). Managed loan data assumes that the Company's securitized loan receivables have not been sold and presents the results of the securitized loan receivables in the same manner as the Company's owned loans. The Company operates its Credit Services business and analyzes its financial performance on a managed basis. Accordingly, underwriting and servicing standards are comparable for both owned and securitized loans. The Company believes that managed loan information is useful to investors because it provides information regarding the quality of loan origination and credit performance of the entire managed portfolio and allows investors to understand the related credit risks inherent in owned loans and retained interests in securitizations. In addition, investors often request information on a managed basis, which provides a meaningful comparison to industry competitors. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current presentation.
 
The following tables provide a reconciliation of certain managed and owned basis statistical data (period-end and average loan balances, interest yield, interest spread, net charge-off rates, and 30- and 90-day delinquency rates) for the periods indicated.
 
 
Reconciliation of General Purpose Credit Card Loan Data
(unaudited, dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of General Purpose Credit Card Loan Data
(unaudited, dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
The following tables provide a reconciliation of certain managed and owned basis income statement data (merchant and cardmember fees, servicing fees, other revenues, interest revenues, interest expense and provision for consumer loan losses) for the periods indicated.
 
 
Reconciliation of Managed Income Statement Data
(unaudited, dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Managed Income Statement Data
(unaudited, dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  May 30, 2003
 


