FILE:MS/MS-8K-20050707164839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
================================================================================ SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ----------------- FORM 8-K ----------------- CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 30, 2005 ----------------- Morgan Stanley (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) ----------------- Delaware 1-11758 36-3145972 (State or other jurisdiction of (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer incorporation) Identification No.) 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000 Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) ----------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ================================================================================
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. Purcell Agreement On June 30, 2005, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") entered into a settlement and release agreement (the "Purcell Agreement") with Philip J. Purcell, the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Purcell Agreement provides that Mr. Purcell's employment with the Company will terminate voluntarily as of June 30, 2005 (the "Termination Date") and that Mr. Purcell will cease to serve in all positions that he holds as an employee, officer or member of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the "Affiliated Entities") as of the Termination Date. For 30 days following the Termination Date, Mr. Purcell shall continue to receive employee welfare benefits and perquisites as if he were still employed. Mr. Purcell will receive a bonus payment (the "Bonus Payment") in cash, half of which will be paid on January 15, 2006 and the other half of which will be paid on January 15, 2007. The Bonus Payment will equal the product of (a) two times the sum of (i) Mr. Purcell's annual base salary for the Company's 2004 fiscal year, (ii) Mr. Purcell's annual bonus for the Company's 2004 fiscal year and (iii) the market value of the Company's common stock underlying restricted stock units granted to Mr. Purcell for the Company's 2004 fiscal year (which product equals $43,959,346) and (b) the sum of (i) one and (ii) the percentage change (expressed as a positive or negative decimal) from 2004 to 2005 in the Company's "Pre-Tax Earnings" (as such term is defined in Section 14 of the 1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the "EICP")) as determined by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board. Mr. Purcell will receive an annual payment (the "Annual Payment") equal to $250,000 payable on the Termination Date and the first business day following each anniversary of the Termination Date for the remainder of his life in lieu of benefits that he otherwise would have been provided following the Termination Date. Following the Termination Date, Mr. Purcell will receive retiree medical benefits (the "Retiree Medical Benefits") that are provided to former senior executives of the Company generally pursuant to the terms of the Morgan Stanley Retiree Medical Plan as may be in effect from time to time. Beginning in calendar year 2006, the Company also will provide a contribution (the "Charitable Contribution") of $250,000 per year in Mr. Purcell's name for the remainder of his life to charitable institutions of his selection that are consistent with the Company's charitable strategy. In addition, the Company, at its expense, will provide to Mr. Purcell administrative support (the "Administrative Award") consistent with the administrative support provided by the Company to other former Chief Executive Officers of the Company for the remainder of his life. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Mr. Purcell becomes an officer, agent, employee, partner or director of any corporation, partnership or other entity, or otherwise renders services to or assists or holds an interest (except as a less than one-percent shareholder of a publicly traded company) in any "Core Competitor" (as defined pursuant to the EICP), Mr. Purcell will cease to be entitled to the Bonus Payment, Annual Payment, Charitable Contribution and Administrative Award. Amounts that are vested benefits or that Mr. Purcell is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any other contract or agreement with any of the Affiliated Entities at or subsequent to the Termination Date, including under any qualified or non-qualified retirement plan, will be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement, except as explicitly modified by the Purcell Agreement. Nevertheless, Mr. Purcell shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any severance plan, program or policy of any of the Affiliated Entities. Pursuant to the terms of the original awards and, consistent with the terms of the Purcell Agreement, all of Mr. Purcell's outstanding unvested stock options and other unvested equity awards vest immediately upon the Termination Date and all of his outstanding awards will be governed in accordance with their original terms except that, following the Termination Date, "Cancellation Events" will have the definition that is provided in the Purcell Agreement. Among other things, the Purcell Agreement also contains mutual nondisparagement, confidentiality and release provisions. The above summary is qualified by the entirety of the terms and conditions set forth in the Purcell Agreement that is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Crawford Agreement On June 30, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement (the "Crawford Agreement") with Stephen S. Crawford, Co-President of the Company, with respect to Mr. Crawford's employment with the Company. The Crawford Agreement provides that, subject to his continued employment with the Company through the end of the Company's 2006 fiscal year, the aggregate amount Mr. Crawford will receive as his annual base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation during each of the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years will equal at least $16,000,000 (the "Crawford Target Compensation Amount"). If, prior to the time at which the full amount of the Crawford Target Compensation Amount is paid to Mr. Crawford with respect to the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years, the Company terminates his employment without "Cause" (as defined in the Crawford
Agreement) or he resigns for "Good Reason" (as defined in the Crawford Agreement to include, among other things, resignation for any reason from July 5, 2005 through August 3, 2005), subject to Mr. Crawford's execution and non-revocation of the Company's standard form of settlement and release agreement, he shall be entitled to payment of the Crawford Target Compensation Amount in cash (less any amount of such compensation already paid to him) at such time as the components of the Crawford Target Compensation Amount would have been paid to Mr. Crawford had he remained employed by the Company through the date on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid to him. In addition, Mr. Crawford's 1999 Year-end Stock Option Award and 2003 Special Stock Option Award will continue to vest and remain exercisable for their full 10 year term, he will be provided with continued medical coverage at an initial cost to him of $14,410 per year until he obtains alternative coverage from another employer and he also will be treated as having attained age 55 for purposes of determining his eligibility for participation in the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The above summary is qualified by the entirety of the terms and conditions set forth in the Crawford Agreement that is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Sidwell Agreement On June 30, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement (the "Sidwell Agreement") with David H. Sidwell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, with respect to Mr. Sidwell's employment with the Company. The Sidwell Agreement provides that, subject to his continued employment with the Company through October 15, 2005, the aggregate amount Mr. Sidwell will receive as his annual base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation (the "Total Compensation") with respect to the Company's 2005 fiscal year will equal at least $10,500,000 (the "Sidwell Target Compensation Amount"). If, prior to the time at which the full amount of Mr. Sidwell's Total Compensation is paid with respect to the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years, the Company terminates his employment without "Cause" (as defined in the Sidwell Agreement) or he resigns for "Good Reason" (as defined in the Sidwell Agreement), subject to Mr. Sidwell's execution and non-revocation of the Company's standard form of settlement and release agreement, he shall be entitled to payment of two times the Sidwell Target Compensation Amount in cash (less any amount of such compensation already paid to him) at such time as the components of Total Compensation would have been paid to him had he remained employed by the Company through the date on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid to him. In addition, all of the equity awards set forth in the Sidwell Agreement will continue to vest, notwithstanding the original terms of such grants, and the Company shall provide Mr. Sidwell with continued medical coverage for 12 months after his termination date at the employee rate. The above summary is qualified by the entirety of the terms and conditions set forth in the Sidwell Agreement that is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. (b) On June 30, 2005, Philip J. Purcell left his position as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Stephen S. Crawford and Zoe Cruz resigned as directors, effective immediately. Mr. Crawford and Ms. Cruz continue to serve as Co-Presidents. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits Exhibit Number Description ------ ----------- 10.1 Purcell Agreement, dated June 30, 2005, between the Company and Mr. Purcell. 10.2 Crawford Agreement, dated June 30, 2005, between the Company and Mr. Crawford. 10.3 Sidwell Agreement, dated June 30, 2005, between the Company and Mr. Sidwell.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. MORGAN STANLEY (Registrant) By: /s/ RONALD T. CARMAN ---------------------------------- Name: Ronald T. Carman Title: Assistant Secretary Date: July 7, 2005

Exhibit 10.1 EXECUTION COPY SETTLEMENT AND RELEASE AGREEMENT This Settlement and Release Agreement (this "Agreement") by and between Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Philip J. Purcell (the "Executive"), is dated as of June 30, 2005 (the "Execution Date"). NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Executive hereby agree as follows: 1. Resignation. Effective as of June 30, 2005 (the "Termination Date"), the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate voluntarily and the Executive shall cease to serve as Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") and a member of the Board, and shall cease to serve in all other positions the Executive then holds as an employee, officer or member of the board of directors of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates (the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates are hereinafter referred to as the "Affiliated Entities"). The Executive hereby agrees to execute any and all documentation to effectuate such terminations upon request by the Company, but he shall be treated for all purposes as having voluntarily terminated his service with the Affiliated Entities upon the Termination Date, regardless of when or whether he executes any such documentation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for a period of 30 days following the Termination Date, the Executive shall continue to receive employee welfare benefits and perquisites as if he had continued in the employ of the Company during such period. 2. Executive's Consideration. In consideration for the covenants set forth in this Agreement, the Company shall provide to the Executive the following payments and benefits. (a) Bonus Payment. The Company shall pay to the Executive an amount in cash equal to the product of (a) the product of (i) two and (ii) the sum of (A) the Executive's annual base salary, (B) the Executive's annual bonus and (C) the market value of the common stock of the Company underlying the restricted stock units granted to the Executive, in each case with respect to the Company's 2004 fiscal year as reported in the Company's most recent annual proxy statement, and (b) the sum of (i) one and (ii) the percentage change (expressed as a positive or negative decimal) from 2004 to 2005 in the Company's "Pre-Tax Earnings" (as such term is defined in Section 14 of the 1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the "EICP")) as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Bonus Payment"). For purposes of Section 14 of the EICP, "Extraordinary and unusual" would include but not be limited to: (i) Write downs or sales of the aircraft portfolio, (ii) Losses from a change in significant estimates used in calculation of Pre-Tax Earnings e.g. loan loss methodology, 02-03 reserves, (iii) Introduction of a new compensation plan, retention or other awards outside of the normal compensation program as applied to 2004, severance payments in excess of the amount accrued in 2004 or other compensation related changes,
(iv) Compensation in excess of the payout rate in a range established for the six months financials ended May 31, 2005 as published with the press release on June 22, 2005 ("2005 YTD financials") and the two previous years, (v) Legal or regulatory matters costs in excess of a normal amount e.g. $200 million in addition to the amounts accrued in the 2005 YTD financials, and (vi) Losses associated with business decisions concerning either owned or leased office space. Fifty percent of the Bonus Payment shall be paid to the Executive on January 15, 2006 and fifty percent of the Bonus Payment shall be paid to the Executive on January 15, 2007 or, in each case, on such later date as may be required pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")). (b) Retiree Medical Benefits. Following the Termination Date, the Executive will be provided with retiree medical benefits provided to former senior executives of the Company generally pursuant to the terms of the Morgan Stanley Retiree Medical Plan as may be in effect from time to time. (c) Annual Payment. In lieu of benefits that otherwise would have been provided to the Executive following the Termination Date, the Executive shall receive an annual payment equal to $250,000 payable on the Termination Date (or on such later date as may be required pursuant to Section 409A of the Code) and the first business day following each anniversary of the Termination Date for the remainder of the Executive's life. (d) Charitable Contributions. Following the Termination Date, the Company shall provide a contribution of $250,000 per year in the Executive's name commencing in calendar year 2006 for the remainder of the Executive's life to charitable institutions of the Executive's selection consistent with the contributions made by the Company on behalf of other former Chief Executive Officers of the Company on behalf of whom the Company makes such contributions, provided that such charitable institutions and contribution are consistent with the Company's charitable strategy. (e) Administrative Support. Following the Termination Date, the Company shall provide to the Executive administrative support consistent with the administrative support provided by the Company to other former Chief Executive Officers of the Company at the sole expense of the Company for the remainder of the Executive's life. (f) Reimbursement for Expenses. The Company shall promptly reimburse the Executive for any reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in connection with his employment on or before the Termination Date in accordance with the Company's expense reimbursement practices and policies, provided that the Executive submits appropriate documentation evidencing such expenses. (g) Other Benefits. Amounts that are vested benefits or that the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any other contract or agreement with the Company or the Affiliated Entities at or subsequent to the Termination Date, including under any qualified or non-qualified retirement plan, shall be 2
payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any severance plan, program or policy of the Company and the Affiliated Entities. 3. Equity and Performance Awards. Exhibit A hereto sets forth a complete list of all of the Executive's currently outstanding stock options and other equity awards (together, "Stock Incentives"), which shall vest immediately upon the Termination Date and shall otherwise be governed in accordance with their terms, provided that, following the Execution Date, the only "Cancellation Events" with respect to such Stock Incentives shall be those events set forth on Exhibit B. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that, following the Execution Date, the Executive becomes an officer, agent, employee, partner or director of any corporation, partnership or other entity, or otherwise renders services to or assist or hold an interest (except as a less than 1-percent shareholder of a publicly traded company) in any Core Competitor (as defined in the 1995 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan), the Executive shall cease to be entitled to the payments and benefits to be paid or provided to him or on his behalf under Sections 2(a), 2(c), 2(d) or 2(e). 4. Releases. (a) Executive's Release. (i) General. In consideration of the payments and benefits set forth in this Agreement, the Executive for himself, his heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors and assigns (collectively "Releasors") does hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever discharge the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective current and former shareholders, subsidiaries, parents, affiliates, divisions, trustees, partners, agents, directors, officers and employees, including without limitation all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with any of them (collectively, "Releasees"), and each of them from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, remedies, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) of any nature whatsoever arising out of or relating to his employment relationship, or the termination of that relationship, with the Company and its Affiliated Entities, known or unknown, whether in law or equity and whether arising under federal, state or local law and in particular including any claim for discrimination based upon race, color, ethnicity, sex, age (including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"), national origin, religion, disability, or any other unlawful criterion or circumstance, which the Executive and Releasors had, now have, or may have in the future against each or any of the Releasees from the beginning of the world until the date hereof relating to the Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates ("Claims"). (ii) Exclusions from Release. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, nothing herein shall release the Company from any claims or damages based on (A) any right or claim that arises after the date hereof, (B) any right the Executive may have under this Agreement and under any applicable plan, policy, program or other agreement or arrangement with the Company except as modified by this Agreement or (C) the Executive's 3
right to indemnification as set forth in this Agreement. The parties agree that this Agreement shall not affect the rights and responsibilities of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (hereinafter "EEOC") to enforce ADEA and other laws. In addition, the parties agree that this Agreement shall not be used to justify interfering with the Executive's protected right to file a charge or participate in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the EEOC. The parties further agree that the Executive knowingly and voluntarily waives all rights or claims that arose prior to the date hereof that the Releasers may have against the Releasees, or any of them, to receive any benefit or remedial relief (including, but not limited to, reinstatement, back pay, front pay, damages, attorneys' fees, experts' fees) as a consequence of any investigation or proceeding conducted by the EEOC ("EEOC Claims"). (iii) ADEA Rights. The Executive acknowledges that: (A) this entire Agreement is written in a manner calculated to be understood by him; (B) he has been advised to consult with an attorney before executing this Agreement; (C) he was given a period of twenty-one days within which to consider this Agreement; and (D) to the extent he executes this Agreement before the expiration of the twenty-one-day period, he does so knowingly and voluntarily and only after consulting his attorney. The Executive shall have the right to cancel and revoke this Agreement during a period of seven days following the date hereof, and this Agreement shall not become effective, and no money shall be paid hereunder, until the day after the expiration of such seven-day period. The seven-day period of revocation shall commence upon the date hereof. In order to revoke this Agreement, the Executive shall deliver to the Company's Chief Legal Officer, prior to the expiration of said seven-day period, a written notice of revocation. Upon such revocation, this Agreement shall be null and void and of no further force or effect. (iv) Acknowledgement. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the consideration provided to him under the terms of this Agreement exceeds anything to which he is otherwise entitled and that he is owed no wages, commissions, bonuses, finder's fees, equity or incentive awards, severance pay, vacation pay or any other compensation or payments or remuneration of any kind or nature other than as specifically provided for in this Agreement or the terms of any benefit plan in which the Executive participates as may be modified by this Agreement. (b) Company's Release. The Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates, partnerships and joint ventures and each of their predecessors and successors also agree that, subject to this Agreement becoming effective, they hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever discharge the Executive from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, remedies, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, whether in law or equity and whether arising under federal, state or local law that the Company had, now has, or may have in the future against the Executive from the beginning of the world until the date hereof arising out of or relating to the Executive's employment, relationship, or the termination of that relationship with the Company and its Affiliated Entities, except that this Section 4(b) shall not apply to any act that is determined to be a criminal act under any Federal, state or local law committed or perpetuated by the Executive during the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or its affiliates (including any criminal act of fraud, misappropriation of funds or embezzlement or any other criminal action). 4
(c) Exclusion from Both Releases. None of the foregoing provisions of this Section 4 shall be considered as releasing the Company's or Executive's respective rights or obligations with respect to any Stock Incentives as modified by this Agreement. 5. Mutual Nondisparaegment. (a) Executive's Covenant. Following the Execution Date, the Executive shall not make, participate in the making of, or encourage or facilitate any other person to make, any statements, written or oral, which criticize, disparage, or defame the goodwill or reputation of, or which embarrass or adversely affect the morale of, any of the Affiliated Entities or any of their respective present, former or future directors, officers, executives, employees and/or shareholders. The Executive further agrees not to make any negative statements, written or oral, relating to his employment, the termination of his employment, or any aspect of the business of the Affiliated Entities. (b) Company's Covenant. Following the Execution Date, the Company shall not and shall instruct the members of its Executive Committee, Rule 16(b) officers and the Board not to make, participate in the making of, or encourage or facilitate any employees or any other person to make, any statements, written or oral, which criticize, disparage, or defame the reputation of, or which are intended to embarrass, the Executive. In addition, the Company shall advise its executive officers and directors not to make any negative statements, written or oral, relating to the Executive's employment or the termination of his employment. (c) Exclusions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, it shall not be a violation of this Section 5 for any person to make truthful statements when required by order of a court or other body having jurisdiction, or as otherwise may be required by law or under an agreement entered into in connection with pending or threatened litigation pursuant to which the party receiving such information agrees to keep such information confidential. 6. Confidentiality. The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company and the other Affiliated Entities and shall not disclose to others, copy, use, transmit, reproduce, summarize, quote or make commercial, directly or indirectly, any secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to any of the Affiliated Entities and their businesses (including without limitation information about the Affiliated Entities' clients' and customers' and their proprietary knowledge and trade secrets, software, technology, research, secret data, customer lists, investor lists, business methods, business plans, training materials, operating procedures or programs, pricing strategies, employee lists and other business information) that the Executive has obtained during his employment with the Company and/or any of the other Affiliated Entities, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to information that is generally known to the public other than as a result of the breach of this Agreement by the Executive ("Confidential Information"). Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the Executive is required to disclose any such confidential or proprietary information pursuant to applicable law or a subpoena or court order, the Executive shall promptly notify the Company in writing of any such requirement so that the Company or the appropriate Affiliated Entity may seek an appropriate protective order or other appropriate remedy or waive compliance with the provisions hereof. The Executive shall reasonably cooperate with the Affiliated Entities to 5
obtain such a protective order or other remedy. If such order or other remedy is not obtained prior to the time the Executive is required to make the disclosure, or the Company waives compliance with the provisions hereof, the Executive shall disclose only that portion of the confidential or proprietary information which he is advised by counsel that he is legally required to so disclose. Prior to the Termination Date, the Executive shall surrender immediately to the Company, except as specifically provided otherwise herein, all Confidential Information and all other property of the Company or any of the other Affiliated Entities in the Executive's possession and all property made available to the Executive in connection with his employment by the Company or any of the other Affiliated Entities, including, without limitation, any and all other records, manuals, customer and client lists, notebooks, files, papers, computers, computer programs, computer discs, lists, data, cellular phones, two-way pagers, palm held electronic devices, electronically stored information and all other documents (and all copies thereof) held or made by the Executive in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company or any of the other Affiliated Entities. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, and in all cases regardless of whether the information is retained in original form, as a copy, electronically or otherwise, the Executive shall be entitled to retain (a) papers and other materials of a personal nature, including, without limitation, photographs, correspondence, personal diaries, calendars and rolodexes, files relating to his personal affairs and personal phone books, (b) information showing his compensation or relating to reimbursement of expenses, (c) information that may be needed for his personal tax purposes and (d) copies of plans, programs and agreements relating to his employment, or termination thereof, with the Company. 7. Cooperation. The Executive agrees that during and after his employment by the Company, the Executive will assist the Affiliated Entities in the defense of any claims, or potential claims that may be made or threatened to be made against any member of the Affiliated Entities in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or otherwise (a "Proceeding"), and will assist the Affiliated Entities in the prosecution of any claims that may be made by any member of the Affiliated Entities in any Proceeding, to the extent that such claims may relate to the Executive's employment or the period of the Executive's employment by the Company. The Executive agrees, unless precluded by law, to promptly inform the Company if the Executive is asked to participate (or otherwise become involved) in any Proceeding involving such claims or potential claims. The Executive also agrees, unless precluded by law, to promptly inform the Company if the Executive is asked to assist in any investigation (whether governmental or otherwise) of any member of the Affiliated Entities (or their actions), regardless of whether a lawsuit has then been filed against any member of the Affiliated Entities with respect to such investigation. The Company agrees to (a) reimburse the Executive for all of the Executive's reasonable out-of-pocket expenses associated with such assistance, including any reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Executive in connection therewith. The Company agrees to provide the Executive with substantially similar means of transportation as was provided to the Executive immediately prior to the Execution Date in connection with the Executive's performance of services to the Affiliated Entities following the Execution Date. 8. Remedies. The Executive acknowledges that (a) the information to which the Executive has had access during his employment with the Company is specialized, unique in nature and of great value to the Company and the other Affiliated Entities, (b) such information gives the Company and the other Affiliated Entities a competitive advantage, (c) because of the nature of the business in which the Company and the other Affiliated Entities are engaged and 6
because of the nature of the Confidential Information to which the Executive has had access during his employment, it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Company and the other Affiliated Entities in the event the Executive breached any of the covenants of Sections 5, 6 or 7, and (d) remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Executive's covenants under Sections 5, 6 or 7 would be inadequate. The Company acknowledges and agrees that it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Executive in the event the Company breached any of the covenants of Section 5, and remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Company's covenants under Section 5 would be inadequate. The parties therefore agree and consent that if either of them commits any such breach or threatens to commit any such breach, the other party shall have the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or remedy that may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage. With respect to any provision of Sections 5, 6 or 7 that is finally determined to be unenforceable, the Executive and the Company hereby agree that this Agreement or any provision hereof may be reformed so that it is enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law. If any of the covenants of Sections 5, 6 or 7 is determined to be wholly or partially unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such determination shall not be a bar to or in any way diminish the Company's right to enforce any such covenant in any other jurisdiction. 9. Entire Agreement. This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the Company and the Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, discussions and negotiations, whether written or oral, between the parties hereto other than the compensation and benefit plans referred to in Sections 2 and 3 above and the awards thereunder, all of which shall continue in accordance with their terms, as modified by Sections 2 and 3 above and as may be further modified with respect to participants generally. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, he is not entitled to receive any severance pay, severance benefits, compensation or employee benefits of any kind whatsoever from the Affiliated Entities including, without limitation, any severance or other benefits from any of the Affiliated Entities. 10. Successors. This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's spouse and by the Executive's legal representatives and the legal representatives of his estate to the extent then applicable. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. 11. Amendment. This Agreement may be amended, modified or changed only by a written instrument executed by the Executive and the Company. Any waiver to be effective must be in writing and signed by the party against whom it is being enforced. 12. Governing Law; Arbitration. (a) Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. 7
(b) Arbitration. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Executive and the Company agree that any and all disputes between the Executive and the Company and/or the Affiliated Entities, or their respective employees, officers, directors, agents successors or assigns, which relate to, arise out of or pertain to the Executive's employment, separation from employment or this Agreement shall be submitted to and resolved by final and binding arbitration. The arbitration shall be instead of any civil litigation; this means that the Executive and the Company are each waiving any rights to a jury trial. (c) The Executive and the Company expressly understand and agree that there will be no court or jury trial of disputes between them arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the Executive's employment or separation from employment, including, but not limited to, claims under federal, state or local laws prohibiting employment discrimination. The only disputes not covered by this agreement to arbitrate are actions for injunctive relief brought by either the Executive or the Company and/or the Affiliated Entities as provided in Section 8 of this Agreement. Furthermore, claims for unemployment insurance benefits, for workers' compensation insurance benefits, and for benefits under any ERISA-governed employee benefit plan(s), shall be resolved pursuant to the claims procedures under such benefit plans, notwithstanding this agreement to arbitrate. (d) All disputes between the parties which are covered by this agreement to arbitrate and which cannot be resolved within two weeks after a demand for direct negotiation between the parties shall be submitted to binding arbitration in New York, New York under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association before a panel of three (3) neutral arbitrators selected under such Rules. Each party agrees to bear his or its own attorneys' fees and costs in connection with such arbitration. (e) The Executive and the Company knowingly and voluntarily agree to this arbitration provision. A decision in arbitration shall be final and binding. Any action to confirm an arbitration award hereunder must be filed in a court having jurisdiction and located in the State of New York or in any state or foreign country in which the Executive resides and that also has personal jurisdiction over both parties; provided that both parties stipulate that personal jurisdiction exists over them in New York. The Executive shall be reimbursed for all reasonable legal fees incurred by the Executive in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement. 13. Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing; shall be delivered by hand delivery to the other party or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt; and shall be addressed as follows: 8
If to the Executive: At the last address on File with the Company With a copy to: [ ] [ ] [ ] If to the Company: 1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036 Attention: Chief Legal Officer With a copy to: Adam D. Chinn, Esq. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz 51 West 52nd Street New York, NY 10019 or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. 14. Tax Withholding. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement, or any other benefits received pursuant hereto, such Federal, state and/or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld under any applicable law or regulation. 15. No Mitigation; No Offset. Except as may otherwise be provided in this Agreement, in no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable under this Agreement. There shall be no offset by the Company against the Executive's entitlements under this Agreement for any compensation or other amounts that he earns from subsequent employment or engagement of his services on account of any claim that the Company may have against him. 16. Indemnification. The Executive will be provided with indemnification rights to the fullest extent permitted by law and the Executive will be provided with directors' and officers' liability insurance coverage with respect to his acts or omissions while at the Company which are no less favorable than those provided to members of the Management Committee (or equivalent successor committee) or members of the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time. 9
17. Non-Admission. This Agreement does not constitute an adjudication or finding on the merits of any issue or matter and it is not to be construed as an admission by either party hereto or any Affiliated Entity of any violation of any policies or procedures or of any unlawful behavior whatsoever. Moreover, neither this Agreement nor anything in this Agreement shall be construed to be or shall be admissible in any proceeding as evidence of, or an admission by either party hereto or any Affiliated Entity of any violation of policies, procedures, state or federal laws, regulations or common-law rights. 18. Counterparts/Captions. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts by facsimile signatures. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. 10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has duly executed this Agreement as of the date first set forth above. /s/ Philip J. Purcell --------------------------- PHILIP J. PURCELL MORGAN STANLEY By: /s/ Karen C. Jamesley ------------------------ Name: Date: /s/ Miles L. Marsh 11
Exhibit A - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION EQUITY PORTFOLIO Philip J. Purcell As of June 13, 2005 Status: Active Intl Status: Local Full Career Date: Sep 5 1998 Retirement Date: Sep 5 1998 MWD on 6/10/2005: $50.00
Exhibit B Cancellation Events are: The Executive engages in a Wrongful Solicitation A "Wrongful Solicitation" occurs upon either of the following events: while employed or within 180 days following termination of the Executive's employment, the Executive directly or indirectly hires or attempts to hire any person who is, or during the 90 days preceding termination of the Executive's employment was, employed by the Company; or while employed or within 90 days following termination of the Executive's employment, the Executive solicits any business of any person or entity who is or was a customer or client of the Company, or works for, or on behalf of, any such customer or client, provided, however, that the Executive had worked on a project or assignment for such customer or client during the 90 days preceding the termination of the Executive's employment.

Exhibit 10.2 1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036 [Morgan Stanley] [Logo Omitted] June 30, 2005 Re: Letter Agreement ---------------- Dear Stephen: In light of your key role with Morgan Stanley (the "Company") and in order to mitigate the uncertainties that you may be experiencing regarding your future with the Company, the Company wishes to offer you the following arrangement regarding your compensation for the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years (the "Agreement"). Subject to your continued employment with the Company through the end of the Company's 2006 fiscal year, the Company hereby agrees that the aggregate of the annual base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation (the "Total Compensation") payable to you by the Company during each of the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years shall be at least equal to $16,000,000 (the "Target Compensation Amount"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that, prior to the time at which the full amount of the Target Compensation Amount is paid to you with respect to the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years, your employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause (as defined below) or you resign for Good Reason (as defined below), subject to your execution and non-revocation of the Company's standard form of settlement and release agreement, you shall be entitled to payment of the Target Compensation Amount in cash (less any amount of such compensation already paid to you) at such time as the components of the Target Compensation Amount would have been paid to you had you remained employed by the Company through the date on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid to you. In addition, your 1999 Year-end Stock Option Award and 2003 Special Stock Option Award will continue to vest and remain exercisable for their full 10 year term. You will be provided with continued medical coverage at an initial cost to you of $14,410 per year until you obtain alternative coverage from another employer. You will also be treated as have attained age 55 for purposes of determining your eligibility for participation in the Company's SERP. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means: (a) your willful engaging in illegal or fraudulent conduct or gross misconduct which, in each case, is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company, or to any clients or customers of the Company, or either of their respective reputations, (b) your conviction of a felony or guilty or nolo contendere plea with respect thereto, or (c) a violation in any material respect of any policies of the Company applicable to you which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means, without your prior written consent: (i) the relocation of your place of employment to a location more than 50 miles from your place of employment on the date hereof, (ii) a material reduction in your duties or authorities from those in effect on June 24, 2005, or (iii) failure to timely pay or provide to you any portion of the Target Compensation Amount. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, your resignation for any reason during the 30-day period commencing on July 5, 2005 shall constitute "Good Reason" for all purposes of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the fore-
[Morgan Stanley] [Logo Omitted] going, except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, you will not be considered to have Good Reason to terminate your employment under this Agreement unless and until you provide the Company with written notice of the circumstances constituting the Good Reason and the Company fails to have cured such circumstances within 30 business days of receipt of such notice. You and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between you and Parent or the Company, your employment by Parent is "at will" and may be terminated by either you or the Company and Parent at any time and for any reason. This Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Company or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this letter if no succession had taken place. The term "Company," as used in this Agreement, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Agreement. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without reference to its conflict of law rules. All amounts and benefits hereunder are subject to withholding for applicable income and payroll taxes or otherwise as required by law. We look forward to a very promising future with you at the Company. In order to be eligible to receive these benefits, it is important that you sign this Agreement and return it to Karen Jamesley as soon as practicable. Very truly yours, By: /s/ Karen C. Jamesley ------------------------------ Accepted and Acknowledged: /s/ Stephen S. Crawford - --------------------------- Name: Stephen S. Crawford Dated: 6/30/2005 ----------

Exhibit 10.3 1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036 [Morgan Stanley] [Logo Omitted] June 30, 2005 Re: 2005 Fiscal Year Compensation ----------------------------- Dear David: In light of your key role with Morgan Stanley (the "Company") and in order to mitigate the uncertainties that you may be experiencing regarding your future with the Company, the Company wishes to offer you the following arrangement regarding your compensation for the Company's 2005 fiscal year (the "Agreement"). Subject to your continued employment with the Company through October 15, 2005, the Company hereby agrees that the aggregate of the annual base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation (the "Total Compensation") payable to you by the Company with respect to the Company's 2005 fiscal year shall be at least equal to $10,500,000 (the "Target Compensation Amount"). Amounts are payable in cash if employment terminates prior to payment date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that, prior to the time at which the full amount of your Total Compensation is paid to you with respect to the Company's 2005 and 2006 fiscal years, your employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause (as defined below) or you resign for Good Reason (as defined below), subject to your execution and non-revocation of the Company's standard form of settlement and release agreement, you shall be entitled to payment of two times the Target Compensation Amount in cash (less any amount of such compensation already paid to you) at such time as the components of Total Compensation would have been paid to you had you remained employed by the Company through the date on which such amounts would otherwise have been paid to you. In addition, all of the equity awards set forth on Exhibit A hereto will continue to vest, notwithstanding the original terms of such grants. The Company will also provide you with continued medical coverage for 12 months after your termination date at the employee rate, after which the Company will provide you with COBRA benefits. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means: (a) your willful engaging in illegal or fraudulent conduct or gross misconduct which, in each case, is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company, or to any clients or customers of the Company, or either of their respective reputations, (b) your conviction of a felony or guilty or nolo contendere plea with respect thereto, or (c) a violation in any material respect of any policies of the Company applicable to you which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" means, without your prior written consent: (i) the relocation of your place of employment to a location more than 50 miles from your place of employment on the date hereof, (ii) a material reduction in your duties or authorities from those in effect on June 24, 2005, or (iii) failure to timely pay or provide to you any portion of the Target Compensation Amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you will not be considered to have Good Reason to terminate your employment under this Agreement unless and until you provide the Company with written notice of the circumstances con-
[Morgan Stanley] [Logo Omitted] stituting the Good Reason and the Company fails to have cured such circumstances within 30 business days of receipt of such notice. You and the Company acknowledge that, except as may otherwise be provided under any other written agreement between you and Parent or the Company, your employment by Parent is "at will" and may be terminated by either you or the Company and Parent at any time and for any reason. This Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Company or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this letter if no succession had taken place. The term "Company," as used in this Agreement, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Agreement. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without reference to its conflict of law rules. All amounts and benefits hereunder are subject to withholding for applicable income and payroll taxes or otherwise as required by law. We look forward to a very promising future with you at the Company. In order to be eligible to receive these benefits, it is important that you sign this Agreement and return it to Karen Jamesley as soon as practicable. Very truly yours, By: /s/ Karen C. Jamesley ------------------------------ Accepted and Acknowledged: /s/ David H. Sidwell - ------------------------ Name: David H. Sidwell Dated: 6/30/2005 ----------
Exhibit A EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- David H. Sidwell


