FILE:MS/MS-8K-20050505115929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
============================================================================== SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ----------------- FORM 8-K ----------------- CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 30, 2005 ----------------- Morgan Stanley (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) ----------------- Delaware 1-11758 36-3145972 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000 Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) ----------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): / / Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) / / Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ==============================================================================
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. (a) On April 30, 2005, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") amended the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws, effective immediately, to (i) provide that the board of directors of the Company at any one time shall not consist of more than 15 members or less than three members, (ii) eliminate the requirement for a supermajority vote of the board of directors in order to remove the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or modify his role, duties or authority and (iii) make ministerial changes reflecting the amendments noted above. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Item 8.01. Other Events. On May 1, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Company's board of directors had reaffirmed its commitment to management and approved the initiation of certain corporate governance changes. The Company's press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- 3 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as amended to date. 99.1 Press Release, dated May 1, 2005, issued by the Company.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. MORGAN STANLEY (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald T. Carman -------------------------------- Name: Ronald T. Carman Title: Assistant Secretary Date: May 5, 2005

Exhibit 3 As amended April 30, 2005 AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF MORGAN STANLEY (hereinafter called the "Corporation") ARTICLE 1 OFFICES AND RECORDS SECTION 1.01. Delaware Office. The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. SECTION 1.02. Other Offices. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require. ARTICLE 2 STOCKHOLDERS SECTION 2.01. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such date, place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. SECTION 2.02. Special Meeting. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock") or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time only by the Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. SECTION 2.03. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation, which will be 1585 Broadway, New York, New York. SECTION 2.04. Notice of Meeting. A notice of meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, electronically, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by
law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders. SECTION 2.05. Quorum and Adjournment. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. SECTION 2.06. Proxies. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy as may be permitted by law; provided, that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Any proxy to be used at a meeting of stockholders must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting. SECTION 2.07. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations. (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.07(a) and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. (ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a) (i) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and, in the case of 2
business other than nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided however, that with respect to the annual meeting to be held in 1998, the anniversary date shall be deemed to be April 2, 1998; provided further, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty days, or delayed by more than ninety days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the one hundred and twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.07(a). Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner. (iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of clause (ii) of this Section 2.07(a) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation. (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws. Nominations of persons for election to the 3
Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate such number of persons for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's Notice of Meeting, if the stockholder's notice as required by clause (ii) of Section 2.07(a) of these Amended and Restated Bylaws shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the one hundred and twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. (c) General (i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at a meeting of stockholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. (ii) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act. SECTION 2.08. Procedure For Election of Directors; Voting. The election of directors submitted to stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a plurality of the votes cast thereon, except as otherwise set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of 4
stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of that class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon. The vote on any matter, including the election of directors, shall be by written ballot. Each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted. SECTION 2.09. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls. (a) The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be directors, officers or employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (b) The Chairman of the Board shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting. SECTION 2.10. Confidential Stockholder Voting. All proxies, ballots and votes, in each case to the extent they disclose the specific vote of an identified stockholder, shall be tabulated and certified by an independent tabulator, inspector of elections and/or other independent parties and shall not be disclosed to any director, officer or employee of the Corporation; provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any and all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations may be disclosed: (a) as necessary to meet legal requirements or to assist in the pursuit or defense of legal action; (b) if the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes; (c) in the event of a proxy, consent or other solicitation in opposition to the voting recommendation of the Board of Directors; and (d) if the stockholder requests, or consents to disclosure of the stockholder's vote or writes comments on the stockholder's proxy card or ballot. 5
ARTICLE 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS SECTION 3.01. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Amended and Restated Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these Amended and Restated Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. SECTION 3.02. Number, Tenure and Qualifications. Subject to Section 3.12 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws and to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, but shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors. However, no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, shall be divided into such classes and hold office for such terms as set forth in, and may be removed only in accordance with, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. SECTION 3.03. Regular Meetings. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of regular meetings without other notice than such resolution. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the Board of Directors and in the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. SECTION 3.04. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all special meetings of the Board of Directors and in the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. SECTION 3.05. Notice. Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his business or residence not later than three days before the day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such places by telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or be communicated to each director personally or by telephone, not later than the day before such day of meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Amended and Restated Bylaws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are 6
present (except as otherwise provided by law) or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting. SECTION 3.06. Action Without Meeting. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the records of the proceedings of the Board or such committee. SECTION 3.07. Conference Telephone Meetings. Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. SECTION 3.08. Quorum. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of directors specified in the resolution pursuant to Section 3.02 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (such total number of Directors, the "entire Board of Directors") shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors, the presence of 50% or more of the total number of members (assuming no vacancies) shall constitute a quorum. The act of the directors or committee members present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee, a majority of the directors or members, as the case may be, present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting. If permitted by applicable law, the directors or members, as the case may be, present at a duly authorized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum. SECTION 3.09. Committees. (a) The Corporation shall have three standing committees: the nominating and governance committee, the audit committee and the compensation committee. Each such standing committee shall consist of such number of directors of the Corporation and shall have such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. (b) In addition, the Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, with each such committee consisting of such number of directors of the Corporation and having such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. (c) All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and authority pursuant to these Amended and Restated Bylaws and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or 7
conferred under authority of the Board of Directors. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such committee is binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the Corporation. (d) Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors or the committee in question and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such resolution. A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon the request of the chairman or a majority of the members of any committee. Notice of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws. SECTION 3.10. Committee Members. (a) Each member of any committee of the Board of Directors shall hold office until such member's successor is elected and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed. (b) The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as a result of a member or chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal or otherwise. SECTION 3.11. Committee Secretary. The Board of Directors may elect a secretary of any such committee. If the Board of Directors does not elect such a secretary, the committee shall do so. The secretary of any committee need not be a member of the committee, but shall be selected from a member of the staff of the office of the Secretary of the Corporation, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors or the committee, as applicable. SECTION 3.12. Compensation. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid compensation as director or chairman of any committee and for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation and payment of expenses for attending committee meetings. ARTICLE 4 OFFICERS SECTION 4.01. General. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; a President or Co-Presidents; a Chief Financial Officer; a Chief Risk Officer; a Chief Legal Officer; one or more Executive Vice Presidents; a Secretary; one or more Assistant Secretaries; a Treasurer; one or more Assistant Treasurers; a Controller; and such other officers as in the judgment of the Board of Directors may be necessary or desirable, including one or more Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the 8
specific provisions of this Article 4. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders or directors of the Corporation. SECTION 4.02. Election and Term of Office. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or be removed. SECTION 4.03. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman of the Board shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall be an officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the duties of the Chairman of the Board shall be performed and the Chairman of the Board's authority may be exercised by a director designated for this purpose by the Board of Directors. SECTION 4.04. President(s). The President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The office of President may, at any time and from time to time, be held by one or more persons. If the office of President is held by more than one person, each person holding such office shall serve as a Co-President and each Co-President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.05. Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall exercise supervisory responsibility for the performance of the duties of the Treasurer and the Controller. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance 9
with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.06. Chief Risk Officer. The Chief Risk Officer shall have the responsibility for the risk management and monitoring of the Corporation. The Chief Risk Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.07. Chief Legal Officer. The Chief Legal Officer shall have responsibility for the legal affairs of the Corporation and for the performance of the duties of the Secretary. The Chief Legal Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.08. Vacancies. A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the terms at any meeting of the Board of Directors. ARTICLE 5 STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS SECTION 5.01. Stock Certificates and Transfers. (a) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or any other authorized officer and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated stock and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical. (b) The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. 10
(c) The shares of the stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancelation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or, unless otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. SECTION 5.02. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. No certificate for shares or uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or its designee may in its or his discretion require. ARTICLE 6 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS SECTION 6.01. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as specified by the Board of Directors. SECTION 6.02. Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. SECTION 6.03. Seal. The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors or by any officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors. SECTION 6.04. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or 11
special meeting of the stockholders or any meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting. SECTION 6.05. Audits. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant. SECTION 6.06. Resignations. Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the Corporation. SECTION 6.07. Indemnification and Insurance. (a) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or a director or elected officer of a Subsidiary, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect, and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided however, that the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Bylaw. The Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred by such person in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon receipt (unless the Corporation upon authorization of the Board of Directors waives such requirement to the extent permitted by applicable law) of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Bylaw or otherwise. (b) The indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted pursuant to this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, other provision of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to any events that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, amendment, adoption or modification. 12
(c) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (d) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other than a director or officer) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation. (e) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph or clause of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. (f) For purposes of these Amended and Restated Bylaws: (1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant. (2) "Subsidiary" means a corporation, a majority of the capital stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation, other than directors' qualifying shares. (g) Any notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary. 13
ARTICLE 7 CONTRACTS, PROXIES, ETC. SECTION 7.01. Contracts. Except as otherwise required by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. Subject to the control and direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Treasurer may enter into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes, contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors, such officers of the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power. SECTION 7.02. Proxies. Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such vote or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises. ARTICLE 8 AMENDMENTS SECTION 8.01. Amendments. These Amended and Restated Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof; provided however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated Bylaws is contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board of Directors and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting. Unless a higher percentage is required by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as to any matter which is the subject of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all such amendments must be approved by either the holders of eighty percent (80%) of the Voting Stock or by a majority of the Board of Directors. 14

Exhibit 99.1 Contact: Media Relations Investor Relations Ray O'Rourke William Pike 212-762-7557 212-761-0008 For Immediate Release Morgan Stanley [Logo] Morgan Stanley Board of Directors Reaffirms Commitment to Management; Initiates Governance Changes NEW YORK, May 1, 2005 - Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MWD) announced today that its board of directors met yesterday and unanimously concluded that suggestions for management changes or a corporate re-organization beyond the proposed spin off of its Discover Card business would not be in the best interest of shareholders. The directors also approved a number of positive changes to strengthen the company's governance policies. "We have said consistently that management enjoys the confidence of the board and we reiterate that commitment today. We have thoroughly examined all of the issues surrounding leadership, structure and strategy and conclude that it is in the best interest of shareholders that we support management and not split up the company," the directors said in a statement. To further enhance the company's governance, the board approved the following changes: o The acceleration of the planned "de-staggering" of the board of directors. Earlier this year, the board approved a measure to de-stagger its three classes of directors. Now, commencing with the company's 2006 annual meeting, the entire board will stand for election by shareholders each year. o The creation of a "lead director" position which the board expects to fill shortly.
o The naming of two additional outside directors to the board, which will bring the total number of directors to 15. The Nominating and Governance Committee has initiated a search and the board will move quickly to fill the positions. o The elimination of a provision in Morgan Stanley's corporate bylaws that requires a supermajority vote of the board of directors to remove the chief executive officer. Henceforth, a simple majority of the board could effect such a change. o The reaffirmation of Board policy that directors should not stand for election following their seventy-second birthday. o The broadening of the Compensation Committee's charter to include oversight of plans for management development and succession. o The initiation at the June board meeting of the practice of rotating board committee chairs. "We have listened carefully to our institutional shareholders, to our clients, and to the leadership ranks within the firm, and we have put in place a program that positions Morgan Stanley at the forefront of good governance practices. We are now moving forward, helping Morgan Stanley's leadership team build the best integrated securities firm in the world," the board said. Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm and a market leader in securities, investment management and credit services. With more than 600 offices in 28 countries, Morgan Stanley connects people, ideas and capital to help clients achieve their financial aspirations. ### 2


