FILE:MS/MS-8K-20050922161711.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
============================================================================== SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K ------------------------ CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 19, 2005 ------------------------ Morgan Stanley (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) ------------------------ Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000 Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) ------------------------ Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: | | Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) | | Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ==============================================================================
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. (a) On September 20, 2005, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") amended and restated the agreement that it entered into with John J. Mack on June 30, 2005 with respect to Mr. Mack's employment as Chief Executive Officer and his appointment as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Among other things, the amendments eliminate the guaranteed annual minimum total compensation (comprised of annual base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation) that Mr. Mack was granted pursuant to the original agreement. This summary is qualified by the entirety of the terms and conditions set forth in the amended and restated employment agreement that is filed as Exhibit 10 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. (a) On September 20, 2005, the Company amended Section 4.07 of its Amended and Restated Bylaws, effective immediately, to eliminate from the responsibilities of the Chief Legal Officer the performance of the duties of the Secretary of the Company. In connection with this action, Thomas Nides, Chief Administrative Officer, was elected Secretary of the Company. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is attached as Exhibit 3 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Item 8.01. Other Events. On September 19, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") named Dr. Laura D'Andrea Tyson chair of its Nominating and Governance Committee and Miles L. Marsh chair of its Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee. In addition, on the same date, the Board appointed Roy J. Bostock to its Nominating and Governance Committee, C. Robert Kidder to its Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee and Charles H. Noski to its Audit Committee. The Board reviews committee assignments from time to time and plans to review committee assignments after the Company's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits Exhibit Number Description ------ ----------- 3 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as amended to date. 10 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2005, between the Company and Mr. Mack.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. MORGAN STANLEY (Registrant) By: /s/ Ronald T. Carman ---------------------------------- Name: Ronald T. Carman Title: Assistant Secretary Date: September 22, 2005

Exhibit 3 As amended September 20, 2005 AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF MORGAN STANLEY (hereinafter called the "Corporation") ARTICLE 1 OFFICES AND RECORDS SECTION 1.01. Delaware Office. The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. SECTION 1.02. Other Offices. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require. ARTICLE 2 STOCKHOLDERS SECTION 2.01. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such date, place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. SECTION 2.02. Special Meeting. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the "Preferred Stock") or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time only by the Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. SECTION 2.03. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation, which will be 1585 Broadway, New York, New York. SECTION 2.04. Notice of Meeting. A notice of meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, electronically, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law.
Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders. SECTION 2.05. Quorum and Adjournment. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. SECTION 2.06. Proxies. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy as may be permitted by law; provided, that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Any proxy to be used at a meeting of stockholders must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting. SECTION 2.07. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations. (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.07(a) and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. (ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a) (i) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and, in the case of 2
business other than nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided however, that with respect to the annual meeting to be held in 1998, the anniversary date shall be deemed to be April 2, 1998; provided further, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty days, or delayed by more than ninety days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the one hundred and twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.07(a). Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (2) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner. (iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of clause (ii) of this Section 2.07(a) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation. (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be 3
elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate such number of persons for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's Notice of Meeting, if the stockholder's notice as required by clause (ii) of Section 2.07(a) of these Amended and Restated Bylaws shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the one hundred and twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. (c) General (i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at a meeting of stockholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. (ii) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act. SECTION 2.08. Procedure For Election of Directors; Voting. The election of directors submitted to stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a plurality of the votes cast thereon, except as otherwise set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances. Except as otherwise provided 4
by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of that class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon. The vote on any matter, including the election of directors, shall be by written ballot. Each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted. SECTION 2.09. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls. (a) The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be directors, officers or employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (b) The Chairman of the Board shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting. SECTION 2.10. Confidential Stockholder Voting. All proxies, ballots and votes, in each case to the extent they disclose the specific vote of an identified stockholder, shall be tabulated and certified by an independent tabulator, inspector of elections and/or other independent parties and shall not be disclosed to any director, officer or employee of the Corporation; provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any and all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations may be disclosed: (a) as necessary to meet legal requirements or to assist in the pursuit or defense of legal action; (b) if the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes; (c) in the event of a proxy, consent or other solicitation in opposition to the voting recommendation of the Board of Directors; and (d) if the stockholder requests, or consents to disclosure of the stockholder's vote or writes comments on the stockholder's proxy card or ballot. 5
ARTICLE 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS SECTION 3.01. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Amended and Restated Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these Amended and Restated Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. SECTION 3.02. Number, Tenure and Qualifications. Subject to Section 3.12 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws and to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, but shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors. However, no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, shall be divided into such classes and hold office for such terms as set forth in, and may be removed only in accordance with, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. SECTION 3.03. Regular Meetings. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of regular meetings without other notice than such resolution. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the Board of Directors and in the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. SECTION 3.04. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all special meetings of the Board of Directors and in the Secretary's absence a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. SECTION 3.05. Notice. Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his business or residence not later than three days before the day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such places by telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or be communicated to each director personally or by telephone, not later than the day before such day of meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Amended and Restated Bylaws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are 6
present (except as otherwise provided by law) or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting. SECTION 3.06. Action Without Meeting. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the records of the proceedings of the Board or such committee. SECTION 3.07. Conference Telephone Meetings. Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. SECTION 3.08. Quorum. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of directors specified in the resolution pursuant to Section 3.02 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (such total number of Directors, the "entire Board of Directors") shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors, the presence of 50% or more of the total number of members (assuming no vacancies) shall constitute a quorum. The act of the directors or committee members present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee, a majority of the directors or members, as the case may be, present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting. If permitted by applicable law, the directors or members, as the case may be, present at a duly authorized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum. SECTION 3.09. Committees. (a) The Corporation shall have three standing committees: the nominating and governance committee, the audit committee and the compensation committee. Each such standing committee shall consist of such number of directors of the Corporation and shall have such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. (b) In addition, the Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, with each such committee consisting of such number of directors of the Corporation and having such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. (c) All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and authority pursuant to these Amended and Restated Bylaws and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or 7
conferred under authority of the Board of Directors. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such committee is binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the Corporation. (d) Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors or the committee in question and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such resolution. A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon the request of the chairman or a majority of the members of any committee. Notice of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws. SECTION 3.10. Committee Members. (a) Each member of any committee of the Board of Directors shall hold office until such member's successor is elected and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed. (b) The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as a result of a member or chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal or otherwise. SECTION 3.11. Committee Secretary. The Board of Directors may elect a secretary of any such committee. If the Board of Directors does not elect such a secretary, the committee shall do so. The secretary of any committee need not be a member of the committee, but shall be selected from a member of the staff of the office of the Secretary of the Corporation, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors or the committee, as applicable. SECTION 3.12. Compensation. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid compensation as director or chairman of any committee and for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation and payment of expenses for attending committee meetings. ARTICLE 4 OFFICERS SECTION 4.01. General. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; a President or Co-Presidents; a Chief Financial Officer; a Chief Risk Officer; a Chief Legal Officer; one or more Executive Vice Presidents; a Secretary; one or more Assistant Secretaries; a Treasurer; one or more Assistant Treasurers; a Controller; and such other officers as in the judgment of the Board of Directors may be necessary or desirable, including one or more Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the 8
specific provisions of this Article 4. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders or directors of the Corporation. SECTION 4.02. Election and Term of Office. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or be removed. SECTION 4.03. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The Chairman of the Board shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall be an officer of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the duties of the Chairman of the Board shall be performed and the Chairman of the Board's authority may be exercised by a director designated for this purpose by the Board of Directors. SECTION 4.04. President(s). The President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The office of President may, at any time and from time to time, be held by one or more persons. If the office of President is held by more than one person, each person holding such office shall serve as a Co-President and each Co-President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.05. Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall exercise supervisory responsibility for the performance of the duties of the Treasurer and the Controller. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic 9
policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.06. Chief Risk Officer. The Chief Risk Officer shall have the responsibility for the risk management and monitoring of the Corporation. The Chief Risk Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.07. Chief Legal Officer. The Chief Legal Officer shall have responsibility for the legal affairs of the Corporation. The Chief Legal Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.08. Vacancies. A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the terms at any meeting of the Board of Directors. ARTICLE 5 STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS SECTION 5.01. Stock Certificates and Transfers. (a) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or any other authorized officer and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated stock and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical. (b) The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. 10
(c) The shares of the stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancelation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or, unless otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. SECTION 5.02. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. No certificate for shares or uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or its designee may in its or his discretion require. ARTICLE 6 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS SECTION 6.01. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as specified by the Board of Directors. SECTION 6.02. Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. SECTION 6.03. Seal. The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors or by any officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors. SECTION 6.04. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or any meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting. 11
SECTION 6.05. Audits. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant. SECTION 6.06. Resignations. Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the Corporation. SECTION 6.07. Indemnification and Insurance. (a) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or a director or elected officer of a Subsidiary, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect, and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided however, that the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Bylaw. The Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred by such person in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon receipt (unless the Corporation upon authorization of the Board of Directors waives such requirement to the extent permitted by applicable law) of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Bylaw or otherwise. (b) The indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted pursuant to this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, other provision of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to any events that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, amendment, adoption or modification. (c) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of the Corporation 12
or a Subsidiary or of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (d) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other than a director or officer) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation. (e) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph or clause of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. (f) For purposes of these Amended and Restated Bylaws: (1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant. (2) "Subsidiary" means a corporation, a majority of the capital stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation, other than directors' qualifying shares. (g) Any notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary. 13
ARTICLE 7 CONTRACTS, PROXIES, ETC. SECTION 7.01. Contracts. Except as otherwise required by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. Subject to the control and direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Treasurer may enter into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes, contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors, such officers of the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power. SECTION 7.02. Proxies. Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such vote or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises. ARTICLE 8 AMENDMENTS SECTION 8.01. Amendments. These Amended and Restated Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof; provided however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated Bylaws is contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board of Directors and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting. Unless a higher percentage is required by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as to any matter which is the subject of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all such amendments must be approved by either the holders of eighty percent (80%) of the Voting Stock or by a majority of the Board of Directors. 14

Exhibit 10 AMENDED AND RESTATED -------------------- EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT -------------------- This AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") by and between Morgan Stanley (the "Company"), and John J. Mack (the "Executive") dated as of September 20, 2005 amends and restates the original employment agreement entered into by and between the Company and the Executive on June 30, 2005. WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to employ the Executive as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and to have the Executive become Chairman and a member of the Board; WHEREAS, the Company desires to enter into an agreement embodying the terms of such employment and service; and WHEREAS, the Executive desires to enter into this Agreement and to accept such employment and service, subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is mutually acknowledged, the Company and the Executive (individually a "Party" and together the "Parties") agree as follows: 1. Effective Date. The "Effective Date" shall mean June 30, 2005. 2. Employment Period. The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to be employed by the Company subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the fifth anniversary thereof (the "Employment Period"). 3. Terms of Employment. (a) Position and Duties. (i) During the Employment Period, (A) the Executive shall serve as the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with such authority, duties and responsibilities as are commensurate with such positions, reporting directly to the Board, and (B) the Executive's principal location of employment shall be at the principal headquarters of the Company; provided, that the Executive may be required under reasonable business circumstances to travel outside of such location in connection with performing his duties under this Agreement. In addition, the Company shall cause the Executive to be appointed as a member of the Board as of the Effective Date, and following such date, the Executive shall remain on the Board, subject to
Section 4(g), and shall perform his duties as a director of the Company conscientiously and faithfully. (ii) The Executive agrees that during the Employment Period, he shall devote substantially all of his business time, energies and talents to serving as the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, perform his duties conscientiously and faithfully subject to the reasonable and lawful directions of the Board, and in accordance with each of the Company's corporate governance and ethics guidelines, conflict of interests policies and code of conduct (collectively, the "Company Policies") applicable to all Company employees or senior executives generally. During the Employment Period, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive, subject to the requirements of Section 8, to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures or fulfill speaking engagements and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as the Chief Executive Officer or as Chairman or a director of the Board in accordance with this Agreement. (b) Compensation. (i) Base Salary. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annualized base salary ("Annual Base Salary") of not less than the individual who served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company immediately prior to the Executive (the "Prior CEO"), payable pursuant to the Company's normal payroll practices. During the Employment Period, the current Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed for increase only (and once increased shall never be decreased) at such time as the salaries of senior executives of the Company are reviewed generally, provided that, the Executive's first such review shall occur no earlier than fiscal year 2006. (ii) Annual Bonus. For each fiscal year completed during the Employment Period, the Executive shall be eligible to receive an annual bonus ("Annual Bonus") on terms and conditions and based upon performance targets that are established by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board or its successor (the "Committee"), provided that in no event shall such terms and conditions or performance targets be less favorable to the Executive than to senior executives of the Company generally. (iii) Long-Term Incentive Compensation. For each fiscal year completed during the Employment Period, the Executive shall be eligible to receive long-term incentive compensation ("Long-Term Incentive Compensation", and together with Annual Base Salary and Annual Bonus, "Total Compensation") on terms and conditions no less favorable to the Executive than (x) members of the Management Committee of the Company (the "Management Committee") generally and (y) the terms and conditions of the Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, 2004 Discretionary Retention Awards Award Certificate (the "2004 EICP"); provided that for purposes of the Long-Term Incentive Compensation (other than the Special RSU Grant (as defined below)), the Executive shall be treated as if the Executive had been 2
continuously employed by the Company and had not terminated employment with the Company in January 2001; provided, further, that the Executive shall not be so treated in the event that prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date the Executive is terminated for Cause (as defined below). The proportion of Total Compensation provided to the Executive as Annual Base Salary, Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Compensation, respectively, for each of fiscal years 2005 and 2006 shall be substantially similar to the proportion of Total Compensation provided as Annual Base Salary, Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Compensation, respectively, to members of the Management Committee generally. (iv) Special RSU Grant. As soon as practicable following the Effective Date, the Executive shall be granted a special one-time grant of 500,000 restricted stock units based on shares of the Company's common stock (the "Special RSU Grant"). Twenty percent of the Special RSU Grant shall vest, and the underlying shares shall be delivered, on the first anniversary of the Effective Date, 20 percent of the Special RSU Grant shall vest, and the underlying shares shall be delivered, on each of the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the Effective Date. Except as specifically set forth herein, the Special RSU Grant shall have the same terms and conditions as grants of restricted stock units under the 2004 EICP. In no event shall the Special RSU Grant be considered part of the Executive's Total Compensation. (v) Retirement Benefits. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in any qualified or nonqualified deferred compensation, pension, and retirement plans maintained by the Company applicable to senior executives of the Company generally, in each case, as amended from time to time, provided that for all purposes of such plans, the Executive shall be treated as if the Executive had been continuously employed by the Company and had not terminated employment with the Company in January 2001, provided, further, that the Executive shall not be so treated in the event that prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date the Executive is terminated for Cause. (vi) Other Benefits. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all welfare, perquisites, fringe benefit, and other benefit plans, practices, policies and programs, as may be in effect from time to time, for senior executives of the Company generally, provided that, during the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive perquisites no less favorable than those provided to the Prior CEO, including, without limitation, use of the Company's aircraft and use of a car and driver. In addition, following the Executive's retirement or any termination of his employment, the Executive shall be entitled to retiree health benefits pursuant to the retiree health plans, practices, programs and policies of the Company (or under programs providing the same benefits), and for purposes of determining the amount of the Executive's contributions and benefits under such plans, practices, programs and policies, the Executive shall be treated as if the Executive had been continuously employed by the Company and had not terminated employment with the Company in January 2001 (the "Executive's Retiree Health Benefits"), provided, that the Executive shall not be entitled to the 3
Executive's Retiree Health Benefits in the event that prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date the Executive is terminated for Cause. (vii) Expenses. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for business expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the Company's policies, as may be in effect from time to time, for its senior executives generally. (viii) Vacation. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the Company's policies, as may be in effect from time to time, for its senior executives generally, provided that for purposes of determining the Executive's vacation benefits, the Executive shall be treated as if the Executive had been continuously employed by the Company and had not terminated employment with the Company in January 2001. (ix) Office and Support Staff. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and shall be provided with secretarial and administrative assistance, as is provided generally to other senior executives of the Company. (c) Other Entities. The Executive agrees to serve, without additional compensation, as an officer and director for each of the Company's subsidiaries, partnerships, joint ventures, limited liability companies and other affiliates, including entities in which the Company has a significant investment (collectively, the Company and such entities, the "Affiliated Group"), as determined by the Company, provided, that such service does not materially interfere with the Executive's performance of his duties and responsibilities as the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. As used in this Agreement, the term "affiliates" shall include any entity controlled by, controlling, or under common control with the Company. 4. Termination of Employment. (a) Death or Disability. The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. In the event a Disability of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), the Company may provide the Executive with written notice in accordance with Section 11(b) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30-day period after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the inability of the Executive to perform his duties with the Company on a full-time basis for six consecutive months as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a licensed 4
physician mutually selected by (i) the Company or its insurers and (ii) the Executive or the Executive's legal representative. If the Parties cannot agree on a licensed physician, each Party shall select a licensed physician and the two physicians shall select a third who shall be the approved licensed physician for this purpose. (b) Cause. The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period with or without Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean: (i) the continued failure of the Executive to perform substantially the Executive's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), for a period of 10 days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive has not substantially performed the Executive's duties, or (ii) the willful engaging by the Executive in illegal or fraudulent conduct or gross misconduct which, in each case, is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company, or either of their respective reputations or to any clients or customers of the Company, or (iii) conviction of a felony or guilty or nolo contendere plea by the Executive with respect thereto, or (iv) a violation in any material respect of any Company Policies applicable to the Executive which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company, if such breach is not cured within 30 business days following receipt of a notice of such breach, or (v) a material breach by the Executive of Section 8 of this Agreement, if such breach is not cured within 30 business days following receipt of a notice of such breach. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act on the part of the Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Executive's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company or was done or omitted to be done with reckless disregard to the consequences. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to 5
the Executive and the Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Executive is guilty of the conduct constituting Cause and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. (c) Good Reason. The Executive's employment may be terminated by the Executive for Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean, in the absence of a written consent of the Executive: (i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties materially inconsistent with the Executive's, duties or responsibilities, or any other material action by the Company which is materially inconsistent with or materially reduces such duties or responsibilities; or (ii) any diminution in Executive's title or reporting relationship as contemplated by Section 3(a) of this Agreement; or (iii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 3(b) of this Agreement; or (iv) the Company's requiring the Executive's principal office to be based at any office or location other than that provided in Section 3(a) of this Agreement; or (v) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; or (vi) any failure to elect or reelect the Executive to the Board; or (vii) any failure by the Company to cause any successor to all or substantially all or a substantial portion of its business and/or assets to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in accordance with Section 9(b). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive shall not be considered to have Good Reason to terminate this Agreement unless and until he gives the Company written notice of the circumstances constituting the Good Reason and the Company fails to have cured such circumstances within 30 business days of receipt of such notice. (d) Voluntary Termination. The Executive may voluntarily terminate his employment without Good Reason. (e) Notice of Termination. Any termination by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other Party hereto given in accordance with Section 11(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in 6
reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder. (f) Date of Termination. "Date of Termination" means (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein within 30 days of such notice, as the case may be, (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or if the Executive voluntarily resigns without Good Reason, the date on which the terminating Party notifies the other Party of such termination, (iii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death, the date of death of the Executive or (iv) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company due to Disability, the Disability Effective Date. (g) Resignation from All Positions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, upon the termination of the Executive's employment for any reason, unless otherwise requested by the Board, the Executive shall immediately resign from all positions that he holds or has ever held with the Company and any other member of the Affiliated Group (and with any other entities with respect to which the Company has requested the Executive to perform services), including, without limitation, the Board and all boards of directors of any member of the Affiliated Group. The Executive hereby agrees to execute any and all documentation to effectuate such resignations upon request by the Company, but he shall be treated for all purposes as having so resigned upon termination of his employment, regardless of when or whether he executes any such documentation. (h) Definitions. Notwithstanding the terms of any employee benefit plan, program or arrangement under which the Executive is a participant, the definitions of "Cause", "Good Reason" and "Disability" set forth in this Section 4 shall apply to the Executive's termination of employment under such plans, programs or arrangements. 5. Obligations of the Company upon Termination. (a) Good Reason; Other Than for Cause. If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause, death or Disability or the Executive shall terminate employment for Good Reason: 7
(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump-sum cash payment as soon as practicable after the Date of Termination the aggregate of the following amounts: A. the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid; B. the excess of (1) the product of (x) the Executive's Total Compensation for the most recently completed fiscal year and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, over (2) the Annual Base Salary to the extent paid for the year that includes the Date of Termination (the amounts in Sections 5(a)(i)(A) and (B), the "Accrued Obligations"); and C. an amount equal to the product of (1) the Executive's Total Compensation for the most recently completed fiscal year and (2) the greater of (x) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days from the Date of Termination through the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date, and the denominator of which is 365 and (y) 1. For purposes of determining the Executive's Total Compensation in respect of any fiscal year for which Long-Term Incentive Compensation was awarded in a form other than restricted stock units, restricted stock or cash, the value of such award shall be determined by the Committee in its good faith discretion. (ii) notwithstanding the terms of any incentive plan, program or arrangement, any and all unvested stock options, restricted stock units (including the Special RSU Grant and the Long-Term Incentive Compensation) and other equity or equity-based awards shall immediately vest as of the Date of Termination, provided that such awards shall continue to be governed by any applicable forfeiture provisions in accordance with the terms thereof. (iii) to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement (other than any severance plan, program, policy or practice or contract or agreement) of the Company and its affiliates in accordance with the terms and normal procedures of each such plan, program, policy or practice, as modified by this Agreement, based on accrued benefits through the Date of Termination (such amounts and benefits, the "Other Benefits"). 8
(iv) until the later of (x) the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date or (y) the first anniversary of the Date of Termination, in addition to the Retiree Medical Benefits, the Company shall continue to provide medical and dental benefits to Executive and his eligible dependents as if the Executive remained an active employee of the Company. The applicable period of health benefit continuation under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ("COBRA") shall begin on the Date of Termination. Except with respect to payments and benefits under Sections 5(a)(i)(A) and 5(a)(iii), all payments and benefits to be provided under this Section 5(a) shall be subject to the Executive's execution and non-revocation of a mutual release substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A; provided, however, that the Executive's obligation to execute such release shall be subject to the Company's execution and delivery to the Executive of such release in favor of the Executive. For purposes of this Section 5, if the Date of Termination occurs prior to the date that the Committee determines the amount of the Executive's Annual Bonus or Long-Term Incentive Compensation in respect of fiscal year 2005, the amount of the Executive's Total Compensation shall be determined in the discretion of the Committee, such that such Annual Bonus and Long-Term Incentive Compensation shall be consistent with the annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation in respect of fiscal year 2005 for other members of the Management Committee generally. (b) Cause; Other than for Good Reason. If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause or the Executive terminates his employment without Good Reason during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay or provide to the Executive the Executive's Retiree Health Benefits (subject to the provisions of Section 3(b)(vi)), an amount equal to the amount set forth in Section 5(a)(i)(A), and the timely payment or provision of the Other Benefits, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid. (c) Death. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than the obligation to pay or provide to the Executive's beneficiaries the Executive's Retiree Health Benefits (if applicable), the Accrued Obligations, and the timely payment or provision of the Other Benefits, including any applicable life insurance benefits. (d) Disability. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than the obligation to pay or provide to the Executive the Executive's Retiree Health Benefits, the Accrued Obligations, and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits, including any applicable disability benefits. 9
6. Non-Exclusivity of Rights. Except as specifically provided otherwise, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries for which the Executive is otherwise eligible, nor, subject to Section 11(f), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company or its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Executive receives payments and benefits pursuant to Section 5(a) of this Agreement, the Executive shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any severance plan, program or policy of the Company and the Affiliated Companies, unless otherwise specifically provided therein in a specific reference to this Agreement. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or its subsidiaries at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. 7. Full Settlement. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other claim, right or action that the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced as a result of a mitigation duty whether or not the Executive obtains other employment. 8. Covenants. (a) Confidential Information. The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for benefit of the Affiliated Group, all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Affiliated Group and its businesses (including, without limitation, any proprietary and not publicly available information concerning any processes, methods, trade secrets, research or secret data, costs, names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating procedures or programs or methods of promotion and sale) that the Executive has obtained or obtains during the Executive's employment by the Affiliated Group that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Executive's violation of this Section 8(a)) ("Confidential Information"). For the purposes of this Section 8(a), information shall not be deemed to be publicly available merely because it is embraced by general disclosures or because individual features or combinations thereof are publicly available. The Executive shall not communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the Executive's employment with the Affiliated Group, except with prior written consent of the Company, or as otherwise required by law or legal process or as such disclosure or use may be required in the course of the Executive performing his duties and responsibilities as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the 10
Executive is required to disclose any such confidential or proprietary information pursuant to applicable law or a subpoena or court order, the Executive shall promptly notify the Company in writing of any such requirement so that the Company or the appropriate member of the Affiliated Group may seek an appropriate protective order or other appropriate remedy or waive compliance with the provisions hereof. The Executive shall reasonably cooperate with the Affiliated Group to obtain such a protective order or other remedy. If such order or other remedy is not obtained prior to the time the Executive is required to make the disclosure, or the Company waives compliance with the provisions hereof, the Executive shall disclose only that portion of the confidential or proprietary information which he is advised by counsel that he is legally required to so disclose. All records, files, memoranda, reports, customer lists, drawings, plans, documents and the like that the Executive uses, prepares or comes into contact with during the course of the Executive's employment shall remain the sole property of the Company and/or the Affiliated Group, as applicable, and shall be turned over to the Company upon termination of the Executive's employment. (b) Remedies. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the terms of Section 8: (i) are reasonable in light of all of the circumstances, (ii) are sufficiently limited to protect the legitimate interests of the Company and its subsidiaries, (iii) impose no undue hardship on the Executive and (iv) are not injurious to the public. The Executive further acknowledges and agrees that (x) the Executive's breach of the provisions of Section 8 will cause the Company irreparable harm, which cannot be adequately compensated by money damages, and (y) if the Company elects to prevent the Executive from breaching such provisions by obtaining an injunction against the Executive, there is a reasonable probability of the Company's eventual success on the merits. The Executive consents and agrees that if the Executive commits any such breach or threatens to commit any breach, the Company shall be entitled to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage, in addition to, and not in lieu of, such other remedies as may be available to the Company for such breach, including the recovery of money damages. The Parties further acknowledge and agree that the provisions of Section 11(a) below are accurate and necessary because (A) this Agreement is entered into in the State of New York, (B) as of the Effective Date, New York will have a substantial relationship to the Parties and to this transaction, (C) as of the Effective Date, New York will be the headquarters state of the Company, which has operations nationwide and has a compelling interest in having its employees treated uniformly within the United States, (D) the use of New York law provides certainty to the Parties in any covenant litigation in the United States, and (E) enforcement of the provision of this Section 8 would not violate any fundamental public policy of New York or any other jurisdiction. If any of the provisions of Section 8 are determined to be wholly or partially unenforceable, the Executive hereby agrees that this Agreement or any provision hereof may be reformed so that it is enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law. If any of the provisions of this Section 8 are determined to be wholly or 11
partially unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such determination shall not be a bar to or in any way diminish the Company's right to enforce any such covenant in any other jurisdiction. 9. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (b) No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the Company except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or the sale or liquidation of all or substantially all or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company; provided, however, that the assignee or transferee is the successor to all or substantially all or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company and such assignee or transferee assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company, as contained in this Agreement, either contractually or as a matter of law. The Company shall cause any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all or a substantial portion of its business and/or assets to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 10. Additional Payment. (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any Payment would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. The Company's obligation to make Gross-Up Payments under this Section 10 shall not be conditioned upon the Executive's termination of employment. (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 10(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 10, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by a nationally recognized certified public accounting firm as may be agreed to by the Company and the Executive (the "Accounting Firm"). The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Executive within 15 12
business days of the receipt of notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change of Control, the Executive may appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 10, shall be paid by the Company to the Executive within 5 days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by the Company should have been made (the "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 10(c) and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive. (c) The Executive shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than 10 business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim. The Executive shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that the Company desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall: (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim, (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company, (iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and 13
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest, and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section 10(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest, and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either pay the tax claimed to the appropriate taxing authority on behalf of the Executive and direct the Executive to sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; provided, however, that, if the Company pays such claim and directs the Executive to sue for a refund, the Company shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with respect to such payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment; and provided, further, that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority. (d) If, after the receipt by the Executive of a Gross-Up Payment or payment by the Company of an amount on the Executive's behalf pursuant to Section 10(c), the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of Section 10(c), if applicable) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after payment by the Company of an amount on the Executive's behalf pursuant to Section 10(c), a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid. (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 10, the Company may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable 14
taxing authority, for the benefit of the Executive, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and the Executive hereby consents to such withholding. (f) Definitions. The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this Section 10. (i) "Excise Tax" shall mean the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax. (ii) A "Payment" shall mean any payment or distribution in the nature of compensation (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) to or for the benefit of the Executive, whether paid or payable pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise. 11. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The Parties hereto irrevocably agree to submit to the jurisdiction and venue of the courts of the State of New York, in any action or proceeding brought with respect to or in connection with this Agreement. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the Parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. (b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other Party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to the Executive: -------------------- At the most recent address on file for the Executive at the Company. With a copy to: -------------- William Zabel, Esq. Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP 919 Third Avenue New York, NY 10022 15
If to the Company: ------------------ 1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036 Attention: Chief Legal Officer or to such other address as either Party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. (c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may withhold from any amounts payable or benefits provided under this Agreement any Federal, state, and local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if at the time of the termination of the Executive's employment he is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Code) and any payments upon such termination under Section 5 will result in additional tax or interest to the Executive, he will not be entitled to such payments until the earlier of (i) the date which is six months after the termination of the Executive's employment for any reason, other than as a result of the Executive's death or disability (as such term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code), (ii) the date of the Executive's death or disability (as such term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code), (iii) a Change in Ownership of Morgan Stanley (as defined by the Committee in a manner that does not result in any additional tax or interest to the Executive under Section 409A of the Code or any regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated thereunder (together with Section 409A of the Code, the "409A Regulations")) or (iv) any earlier date that does not result in any additional tax or interest to the Executive under the 409A Regulations. In addition, if any provision of this Agreement would subject the Executive to any additional tax or interest under the 409A Regulations, then the Company shall reform such provision; provided that the Company shall (x) maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision without subjecting the Executive to such additional tax or interest and (y) not incur any additional compensation expense as a result of such reformation. (f) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, to the extent that the Special RSU Grant, any other Long-Term Incentive Compensation Grant or any other cash or equity compensation award granted to the Executive does not constitute "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, settlement of such award shall be 16
deferred in accordance with the Company's policy applicable to the deferral and payment of equity-based awards for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code; provided, however, that in the event that the Executive dies or there is a Change in Ownership of Morgan Stanley, in either case that occurs at any time prior to the lapse of such deferral period, payment will be made as soon as administratively practicable after such event. For the avoidance of doubt, the deferral of such equity-based awards shall not affect the Executive's vested right to receive such equity-based awards upon the lapse of such deferral period. (g) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement. (h) From and after the Effective Date, this Agreement shall supersede any other agreements between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. 17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. /s/ John J. Mack ------------------------------ John J. Mack MORGAN STANLEY /s/ Karen C. Jamesley ------------------------------ By: Karen C. Jamesley Title: MD-Human Resources 18
EXHIBIT A Form of Release (a) In consideration for the payment of the severance described in the Executive's amended and restated employment agreement with the Company (the "Employment Agreement"), dated as of September 20, 2005, the Executive for himself, and for his heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors and assigns (collectively "Releasers") does hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever discharge the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates and divisions and their respective, current and former, trustees, officers, directors, partners, shareholders, agents, employees, consultants, independent contractors and representatives, including without limitation all persons acting by, through under or in concert with any of them (collectively, "Releasees"), and each of them from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, remedies, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, whether in law or equity and whether arising under federal, state or local law and in particular including any claim for discrimination based upon race, color, ethnicity, sex, age (including the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967), national origin, religion, disability, or any other unlawful criterion or circumstance, which the Executive and Releasers had, now have, or may have in the future against each or any of the Releasees (collectively "Executive/Releaser Actions") from the beginning of the world until the date hereof. (b) The Executive acknowledges that: (i) this entire Release is written in a manner calculated to be understood by him; (ii) he has been advised to consult with an attorney before executing this Release; (iii) he was given a period of twenty-one days within which to consider this Release; and (iv) to the extent he executes this Release before the expiration of the twenty-one day period, he does so knowingly and voluntarily and only after consulting his attorney. The Executive shall have the right to cancel and revoke this Release by delivering notice to the Company pursuant to the notice provision of Section 11 of the Employment Agreement prior to the expiration of the seven-day period following the date hereof, and the severance benefits under the Employment Agreement shall not become effective, and no payments or benefits shall be made or provided thereunder, until the day after the expiration of such seven-day period (the "Revocation Date"). Upon such revocation, this Release and the severance provisions of the Employment Agreement shall be null and void and of no further force or effect. (c) For and in consideration of the obligations upon Executive as set forth in the Employment Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company hereby (on its own behalf and that of the Company's affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively, with the Company, the "Affiliated Entities"), the divisions and predecessors and successors of the Affiliated Entities and the directors and officers of the company in their capacity as such (collectively, the "Releasing Entities") releases Executive and his heirs, executors, successors 19
and assigns (the "Executive Released Parties") and each of them from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, remedies, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, whether in law or equity and whether arising under federal, state or local law, which the Company and the Affiliated Entities had, now have, or may have in the future against each or any of the Executive Released Parties from the beginning of the world until the date hereof (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the sole matters to which the Release do not apply are: (i) the Executive's rights of indemnification and directors and officers liability insurance coverage to which he was entitled immediately prior to ________ with regard to his service as an officer of the Company; (ii) the Executive's rights under any tax-qualified pension or claims for accrued vested benefits under any other employee benefit plan, policy or arrangement maintained by the Company or under COBRA; or (iii) the Executive's rights under Sections 5, 7 and 10 of the Employment Agreement which are intended to survive termination of employment. (e) This Release is the complete understanding between the Executive and the Company in respect of the subject matter of this Release and supersedes all prior agreements relating to the same subject matter. The Executive has not relied upon any representations, promises or agreements of any kind except those set forth herein in signing this Release. (f) In the event that any provision of this Release should be held to be invalid or unenforceable, each and all of the other provisions of this Release shall remain in full force and effect. If any provision of this Release is found to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be modified as necessary to permit this Release to be upheld and enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law. (g) This Release is to be governed and enforced under the laws of the State of New York (except to the extent that New York conflicts of law rules would call for the application of the law of another jurisdiction). (h) This Release inures to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns and the Executive and its legal representatives. ________________________________ EXECUTIVE ________________________________ COMPANY 20


