FILE:MS/MS-8K-20050817171348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
======================================================================== SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ------------ FORM 8-K ------------ CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 17, 2005 ---------------- Morgan Stanley (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) ---------------- Delaware 1-11758 36-3145972 (State or other jurisdiction of (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer incorporation) Identification No.) 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000 Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) ---------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ==============================================================================
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. On August 17, 2005, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors has approved management's recommendation to sell the Company's aircraft leasing business, AWAS. The Company estimates future cash expenditures related to the sale to be approximately $5 million. For more information, see Item 2.06 below and the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Item 2.06. Material Impairments. As discussed above, on August 17, 2005 the Company's Board of Directors approved management's recommendation to sell the Company's aircraft leasing business, AWAS. In connection with this action, the aircraft leasing business will be classified as held for sale under the provisions of SFAS No. 144 and reported as discontinued operations in the Company's consolidated financial statements commencing with the third quarter of fiscal 2005. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company will recognize a total charge of approximately $1.7 billion (approximately $1.0 billion after tax) consisting of a charge of approximately $1.7 billion (approximately $1.0 billion after tax) to reflect the writedown of the aircraft leasing business to its estimated fair value and a charge relating to anticipated transaction costs of $5 million ($3 million after tax). Except to the extent set forth above in Item 2.05 the Company does not anticipate that the sale will result in future cash expenditures. The sales process will begin immediately and the Company anticipates the closing of a transaction in mid-2006. Because the final structure and timing of the sales transaction is not known at this time, the estimated charge may be adjusted and there can be no assurance that an additional charge may not be required in connection with the sale transaction. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the Company will be required to assess continually the fair value of the aircraft leasing business until its ultimate disposition. The appraised values of the aircraft portfolio, both previously disclosed by the Company and with respect to appraisals received in August 2005 (with a range of $2.5 billion to $3.3 billion and an average of $2.8 billion in August 2005), represent a summation of each of the estimated values of the aircraft assuming each aircraft is sold individually. These appraised values do not consider the costs of running the business, the prospects of the business as a whole, the divestiture of a large number of planes at one time, the expenses associated with the sale and other elements. In estimating the charge to be recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company has made an estimate of the value to be realized in selling the aircraft leasing business as a whole, not just individual planes. The estimated value of the business is based on an evaluation of current market conditions, recent transactions involving the sales of similar aircraft leasing businesses, a detailed assessment of the portfolio and additional valuation analyses. The proceeds actually realized for the business will depend upon the buyer's analysis of the business and its opportunities. Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure. On August 17, 2005, John J. Mack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, David H. Sidwell, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, and David W. Nelms, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Discover Financial Services, delivered a presentation to the financial community. Information contained in such presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K. The presentation material in Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto is hereby intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure." As provided in General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and it shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or under the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. Item 8.01. Other Events. On August 17, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors has determined that it is in the best interest of shareholders to retain, and to not spin off, Discover Financial Services. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release, dated August 17, 2005, issued by the Company. 99.2 Information from presentation delivered August 17, 2005.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. MORGAN STANLEY (Registrant) /s/ WILLIAM J. O'SHAUGHNESSY, JR. By: --------------------------------- Name: William J. O'Shaughnessy, Jr. Title: Assistant Secretary Date: August 17, 2005

Exhibit 99.1 Contact: Media Relations Investor Relations Discover Jim Badenhausen William Pike Jennifer Kang-Born 212-761-4472 212-761-0008 224-405-2347 For Immediate Release Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley Announces Key Actions to Drive Improved Profitability, Growth and Returns to Shareholders Board Decides to Keep Discover as an Asset of Morgan Stanley that Can Create Value for Shareholders and Realize Growth Opportunities Will Sell Non-Strategic Aircraft Leasing Business and Invest Proceeds in Core Businesses to Generate Higher ROE; Expects Q305 After-Tax Non-Cash Charge of Approximately $1.0 Billion Three Respected, Experienced Business Leaders - Roy J. Bostock, Charles H. Noski and O. Griffith Sexton - Named to Board of Directors NEW YORK, August 17, 2005 - Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MWD) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved several actions intended to drive improved profitability, growth and returns to shareholders across the Company's global financial services businesses. The Company will retain Discover Financial Services as an important contributor to shareholder value and will sell its non-core aircraft-leasing business, AWAS, one of the world's largest aircraft leasing companies. The Board of Directors also elected three new directors: Roy J. Bostock, former Chairman of B|Com3 Group, one of the world's leading advertising agencies, and a current director of Yahoo! Inc. and Northwest Airlines; Charles H. Noski, former Vice Chairman of the Board of AT&T and a current director of Microsoft Corporation and Air Products & Chemicals, Inc.; and O. Griffith Sexton, an adjunct professor of finance at Columbia Business School, a long-time investment banker and a current director at Investor AB and Hamilton Lane. Mr. Bostock and Mr. Noski are considered independent directors, and their election increases the number of independent directors from 10 to 12. John J. Mack, who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley on June 30, noted that the Discover and AWAS actions are initial steps toward improving the Company's performance. Mr. Mack also emphasized that one of his top priorities is to implement the initiatives announced late last month to significantly improve profitability in Morgan Stanley's retail brokerage business. "Morgan Stanley has tremendous strengths as a global financial services firm, but it is clear that our current level of profitability is unacceptable and we need to improve our 1
performance," Mr. Mack said. "We must be relentless in improving profit margins, growth and return on equity, while continuing to deliver innovative services to our clients. We have to ensure that the Firm operates with the scale and flexibility to compete successfully in a fast-changing, competitive marketplace. We need to be smarter about using our capital efficiently as we continue to focus on risk management. We must also create a more cohesive culture by reducing bureaucracy and eliminating insular silos - all with the objective of shaping a 'one firm' mentality. "Our overriding goal for Morgan Stanley is to be the clear leader in offering premier, innovative financial services to our clients, while delivering superior returns to our shareholders. The decisions to keep Discover, divest the aircraft leasing business and strengthen our retail business are our first steps toward achieving that goal. We will now focus on identifying other steps we need to take in the months ahead." Keeping Discover as a Valuable Asset The Board of Directors has decided, based on the results of a recently completed in-depth analysis, that it is in the best interests of Morgan Stanley's shareholders to retain Discover Financial Services. The Board concluded that Discover can create value for Morgan Stanley shareholders and realize its growth potential as an asset of Morgan Stanley. "Having looked closely at the Discover business," Mr. Mack said, "the Board and I are convinced that Discover is not only a strong business, but also an attractive asset for Morgan Stanley. It is a unique, successful franchise with growth opportunities that gives Morgan Stanley a consistent stream of stable, high-quality earnings and substantial cash flow, diversifies the Company's earnings and broadens our scale and capital base." Among the considerations in the decision to retain the business are that Discover: o Delivered record before-tax earnings of $1.27 billion in 2004, representing 19% of Morgan Stanley's total before-tax earnings and in excess of 19% ROE. o Enjoys a strong brand and a loyal customer base of 50 million Cardmembers. o Added more than one million merchant locations to its Discover Network in 2004 and is now accepted at more of the top 100 U.S. retailers than any other credit network. o Has significantly improved credit quality over the past three years, and, in the second quarter of 2005, reported an over-30-day delinquency rate of 3.9% on managed loans, the lowest in 15 years. o Is poised for new growth due to a favorable 2004 court ruling that allows the Discover Network to partner with financial institutions in the U.S. for the first time. o Launched new partnerships with GE Consumer Credit, offering Wal-Mart- and Sam's Club-branded cards on the Discover Network. o Acquired the fast-growing PULSE debit network in January 2005. PULSE has more than 4,100 financial institution customers. 2
o Recently formed a new partnership with China UnionPay, China's largest payment network with 800 million cards. o Has a growing Morgan Stanley card business in the U.K. o Benefits from certain synergies between Discover and Morgan Stanley, including lower funding costs for Discover as well as shared corporate functions and the ability to leverage resources. "Of course, the U.S. credit card industry is in a low-growth stage right now - about 3 to 5% annually - and the rising cost of funds puts additional pressure on earnings in the short term," Mr. Mack added. "But given the strengths of Discover, its powerful brand name and its continuing strong ROE, retaining the business and investing in it over time give us a good chance to create value through domestic growth in excess of industry trends, growth in international profit and the unique opportunities in the payments business." In April, the Board of Directors authorized the analysis of Discover as a possible spin-off. The analysis included, among other things, an evaluation of capital structure, financial projections, credit ratings and anticipated market valuations, together with consideration of the value of Discover to Morgan Stanley. After careful examination of the completed analysis, Mr. Mack recommended to the Board of Directors that Morgan Stanley retain Discover, and the Board agreed. Opportune Time to Exit Non-Strategic Aircraft Leasing Business The Board of Directors also has determined that it is in the best interests of Morgan Stanley's shareholders to sell AWAS, its non-core aircraft leasing business, and redeploy the proceeds of the sale back into the Company's core businesses with the goal of delivering a higher return on equity for the Company and its shareholders. "Aircraft leasing is not a business that fits with our strategy," Mr. Mack said. "We have long made it clear that we should divest this business and focus on our core financial services. Today, we believe that the marketplace offers the opportunity to execute a transaction, in light of several other recent transactions and expressions of interest in our business. While this will mean a significant after-tax, non-cash accounting charge, there is no question that we now have an opportunity to execute a sale that brings in the best value for our shareholders, given the current market for these assets." AWAS is one of the world's largest and most experienced aircraft leasing companies, with 155 aircraft leased to 75 customers in 45 countries. With the aircraft-leasing markets on an upturn over the past 12 months, lease rates and leasing activity have improved. In the first quarter of 2005, AWAS completed the divestiture of 25 planes that had been held for sale. As of the end of the second fiscal quarter, AWAS had no planes on the ground, with all of the aircraft in the portfolio either leased or committed to a lease transaction. 3
The Company will take an after-tax, non-cash accounting charge in the third quarter to write down the value of this business to its estimated market value. Based on information currently available, it estimates the charge after taxes at approximately $1.0 billion. The Company said that this estimate might be adjusted as additional information becomes available and discussions with potential purchasers begin. The sale process will begin immediately, with the closing of a transaction anticipated in mid-2006. Initiatives to Improve Performance in Retail Business "Our retail brokerage operation generates strong revenue for the Company," Mr. Mack said. "But it faces tough competition in the marketplace, and we are going to work hard to substantially improve the productivity and profitability of this key business, while maintaining a sharp focus on client needs. Our retail strategy focuses on the more profitable, wealthier client segments and on increasing the number of top-quality financial advisors and investment representatives we need to serve those clients. We believe the steps we are taking should drive a significant improvement in margins." As announced yesterday, James P. Gorman has been named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Individual Investor Group, effective February 2006, responsible for leading Morgan Stanley's global retail sales force. Mr. Gorman will be a member of Morgan Stanley's management committee and report to Acting President Zoe Cruz. The Company is taking specific actions to restructure and enhance the performance of the retail sales force, including increasing the effectiveness of its financial advisor training program, reducing headcount and working to generate new revenue streams, including banking and deposits. These initiatives are designed to take advantage of favorable long-term trends in the retail business and marketplace, such as the growing numbers of high-net-worth clients, now the fastest-growing market segment for the industry. Morgan Stanley has identified many opportunities to improve its offerings for these clients in key areas such as financial planning, alternative investments, retirement vehicles, liability products and deposits. Three New Members Elected to the Board of Directors Commenting on the election by the Board of Messrs. Bostock, Noski and Sexton, Mr. Mack said, "The Board has elected three individuals who are respected and experienced business leaders. They will make major contributions to our business strategy and represent the highest standards of governance. Their appointments will help ensure that the Firm achieves the best possible, most objective sources of advice and oversight available." Miles Marsh, Morgan Stanley's Lead Director, said, "Our Nominating and Governance Committee recommended Roy Bostock, Chuck Noski and Griff Sexton because they add breadth of experience and perspective to the Board. All three have wide exposure to the 4
many complex and demanding issues involved in the governance of major blue-chip, publicly traded companies, as well as the needs of institutional investors and management. Their skills, talents and ideas are a welcome addition to our Board and we look forward to working closely with them." Mr. Bostock, 64, currently serves as Chairman of the Partnership for a Drug Free America. Until 2001, Mr. Bostock was Chairman of B|Com3 Group, an advertising and marketing services firm that is now part of the Publicis Group. Mr. Bostock played a major role in building some of the most prominent advertising firms in the U.S., beginning with Benton & Bowles in 1964. Following the creation, through a merger, of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles in 1985, Mr. Bostock became President of the combined firm. By 1990, he had also served as Chief Operating Officer and was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In that capacity, he saw the agency through several more transactions. In 2000, the agency was renamed the B|Com3 Group and Mr. Bostock became Chairman. Mr. Bostock is a member of the boards of directors of Northwest Airlines and Yahoo! Inc. and a Trustee Emeritus of Duke University. A graduate of Duke, he has an MBA from Harvard. Mr. Noski, 52, was most recently Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and a director of Northrop Grumman Corporation. Prior to joining Northrop in 2003, Mr. Noski was a senior advisor to the Blackstone Group. Earlier, Mr. Noski was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as Vice Chairman of the Board of AT&T. Mr. Noski has also been President, Chief Operating Officer and a director of Hughes Electronics Corporation and a partner with Deloitte & Touche. He is a member of the boards of directors of Microsoft and Air Products & Chemicals. He holds a master's degree in accounting and a bachelor's degree in business administration from California State University, Northridge. Mr. Sexton, 61, is an adjunct professor of finance at Columbia Business School and a visiting lecturer at Princeton University, where he teaches courses in corporate finance. Prior to his academic career, Mr. Sexton was an investment banker at Morgan Stanley from 1973 to 1995, where he was engaged in the development and execution of advisory assignments involving a wide variety of corporate financial transactions. Since 1995, he also has served as an active advisory director of Morgan Stanley. He is a member of the boards of directors of Investor AB, a publicly traded Swedish investment company, and Hamilton Lane, a privately held asset-management company based in Philadelphia. A former U.S. naval aviator and Vietnam veteran, Mr. Sexton holds a BSE from Princeton and an MBA from Stanford. Conference Call Today The company will hold an analyst conference call today at 5:15 pm (ET). Live audio of the conference call will be available on the Morgan Stanley website at www.morganstanley.com or by dialing 1-877-810-2615 (pass code 50371139) in the 5
United States. International callers dial 617-786-8334 (pass code 50371139). A playback of the call will be available today at the same web site address. To listen to the playback dial 1-888-286-8010 (pass code 74395699) within the United States or 617-801-6888 (pass code 74395699) internationally. About Discover Discover Financial Services, Inc., a business unit of Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MWD), operates the Discover Card with more than 50 million Cardmembers, the Discover Network with more than 4 million merchant and cash access locations and the PULSE ATM/debit network currently serving more than 4,100 banks, credit unions and savings institutions. For more information, visit www.discovercard.com, www.discovernetwork.com or www.pulse-eft.com. About AWAS Headquartered in Seattle and with offices in New York, Miami, London, Singapore and Sydney, AWAS is one of the world's leading aircraft leasing companies, trading in the very competitive and highly specialized market of aviation operating leases. AWAS currently owns 155 modern Stage 3-type jet aircraft and has airline customers situated in 45 countries around the world. AWAS is managed by a team of aviation industry professionals. Additional information about AWAS can be found by visiting its website at www.awas.com. About Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm and a market leader in securities, investment management and credit services. With more than 600 offices in 28 countries, Morgan Stanley connects people, ideas and capital to help clients achieve their financial aspirations. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This release may contain forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made, which reflect management's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. In particular, the Company's ability to effect a sale of the Company's aircraft leasing business, to realize the full extent of cost savings or benefits from such sale and to assure that subsequent developments (including the ultimate structure, pricing and timing of the transaction) do not cause actual charges to exceed the currently estimated charges to be incurred in the transaction may cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs. In addition, the future performance of Discover Financial Services is subject to numerous risks impacting the credit card industry that may cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's current estimates, projections and beliefs, including: rising cost of funds pressuring spreads; slow industry growth with rising payment rates; future loan loss 6
rate uncertainty, especially given bankruptcy reform and changing minimum payment requirements; and a consolidating industry with competitive pressures and increasing marketing constraints. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, please see "Forward-Looking Statements" immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, "Competition" and "Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 and "Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2004 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended February 28, 2005 and May 31, 2005 and in other items throughout the Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q. # # #

Exhibit 99.2 Morgan Stanley John Mack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David H. Sidwell, Chief Financial Officer David W. Nelms, Chairman & CEO, Discover Financial Services August 17, 2005
Notice The information provided herein may include certain non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP figures are included in the Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on 8-K, including any amendments thereto, which are available on www.morganstanley.com. This presentation may contain forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made, which reflect management's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. In particular, the Company's ability to effect a sale of the Company's aircraft leasing business, to realize the full extent of cost savings or benefits from such sale and to assure that subsequent developments (including the ultimate structure, pricing and timing of the transaction) do not cause actual charges to exceed the currently estimated charges to be incurred in the transaction may cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs. In addition, the future performance of Discover Financial Services is subject to numerous risks impacting the credit card industry that may cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's current estimates, projections and beliefs, including: rising cost of funds pressuring spreads; slow industry growth with rising payment rates; future loan loss rate uncertainty, especially given bankruptcy reform and changing minimum payment requirements; and a consolidating industry with competitive pressures and increasing marketing constraints.For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, please see "Forward-Looking Statements" immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, "Competition" and "Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 and "Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2004 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended February 28, 2005 and May 31, 2005 and in other items throughout the Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q. This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 2 it was originally presented.
Agenda o Introduction o Initial Actions o Discover opportunities o Q&A o Appendix This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 3 was originally presented.
Introduction This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 4 was originally presented.
Morgan Stanley Strategic Direction Goal: To be the clear leader in offering premier, innovative service to clients, while delivering superior returns to shareholders o Relentless focus on improving profit margins, growth and return on equity o Sharpen focus on serving clients o Operate with sufficient scale and flexibility to compete in a fast-changing and competitive marketplace o Use capital as efficiently as possible, while continuing to focus on managing risk o Create a more cohesive culture by reducing bureaucracy and eliminating insular silos This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 5 was originally presented.
Initial Actions o Retain Discover to create value for shareholders o Exit non-core aircraft leasing business o New management and new initiatives in Retail Brokerage business o Appoint new Directors This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 6 was originally presented.
Discover Potential Spin-Off Evaluation Process o In April, Board authorized exploration of potential Discover spin-off o Investment Banking team and management subsequently performed significant analysis - Determination of capital structure - Financial projections of spin-off vs. subsidiary - Rating agency discussions - Valuations o A number of market changes occurred during this process - MBNA profit shortfall and subsequent announced sale to Bank of America - Providian announced sale to Washington Mutual - Rating agency actions - Multiple new lawsuits of merchants vs. Visa and MasterCard o Discover trends were also taken into account - Retail sales growth - Declining delinquency rates - Signed China UnionPay deal o After careful consideration, conclusion was that it was in shareholders' best interests to retain Discover This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 7 was originally presented.
Benefits of Retaining Discover o Earnings diversification - Strong ROE and capital generation - Reduced volatility o Broader capital base o Financial synergies - Lower funding costs - Shared corporate functions o Enhanced Discover growth prospects post-DOJ suit - Payments opportunities (PULSE debit network, GE/Wal-Mart, China UnionPay) - Stronger network potential to drive higher Discover Card growth and profits - Discover independence not required to pursue new growth options o Discover is a unique franchise - Strong brand, #1 rewards program - Large, loyal, high quality customer base This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 8 was originally presented.
Aircraft Leasing Divestiture Evaluation Process o AWAS remains non-core to Morgan Stanley - Without viable exit alternatives, AWAS was retained through period of unprecedented decline in aircraft industry following September 11 - Significant concentration in aircraft asset class has inhibited investment in other Morgan Stanley activities - Proceeds from the sale of AWAS could be deployed more profitably in core businesses o Recently, the operating environment in aircraft leasing has improved - Higher lease rates and lease activity - AWAS currently has positive momentum o The market for aircraft businesses has become more active - For the first time since 2001, there have been acquisitions of other operating lessors - Morgan Stanley has recently received expressions of interest from several credible potential acquirers of AWAS o We will take an estimated after-tax non-cash charge in 3Q05 of approximately $1 billion to write down the value of the business to its estimated market value This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 9 was originally presented.
Aircraft Leasing Business Snapshot o Third largest aircraft lessor - 155 planes, 4 engines - Average age of 12.1 years o Expertise in aircraft trading and lease remarketing o Geographically diverse - 75 customers in 45 countries o Improving lease rates o No planes on the ground o Book value of aircraft $3.7 billion This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 10 was originally presented.
Retail Brokerage: New management, new initiatives New management: o James P. Gorman hired as new President and Chief Operating Officer of the Individual Investor Group - Brings unmatched breadth and depth of experience - Record of successfully building retail financial services businesses o Uniquely qualified to lead the transformation of Morgan Stanley's retail brokerage business o Assumes new role effective February 2006 New initiatives: o Reducing number of new financial advisor trainees hired in 2006 to 1,000 vs. 2005 class of 2,400 o Cut the bottom 10% of financial advisors in terms of production o Stepping up efforts to recruit proven, experienced financial advisors who are focused on serving high-net-worth individuals o Working to generate new revenue streams, including banking/deposits o Close the margin gap with our peers within the next 2-3 years This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 11 was originally presented.
New Additions to the Board of Directors o Three new directors - Roy J. Bostock o Former Chairman of B|Com3 Group, one of the world's leading advertising agencies - Charles H. Noski o Former senior executive of Northrop Grumman, AT&T and Hughes Electronics - O. Griffith Sexton o Economics and finance professor at Columbia Business School o Long-time investment banker o Number of independent directors increases from 10 to 12 o Elections effective September 15 This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 12 was originally presented.
Discover Opportunities This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 13 was originally presented.
Discover Profile [LOGOS OMITTED] o 50 million+ cardmembers, $47 billion managed credit card loans o 4 million+ merchants and cash access locations o Record $1.3 billion PBT in 2004(1) (ROE in excess of 19%(2)), consistent earnings and capital generation (cumulative net income of $3.7Bn over past 5 years) o America's #1 cash rewards program - Cashback Bonus(R) o One of the strongest brands in financial services o Recent court ruling allows new partnerships with financial institutions - Acquisition of PULSE: entry into rapidly growing debit market - GE/Wal-Mart contract: first major third-party credit issuer on Discover(R) Network - China UnionPay reciprocal acceptance agreement o Growing U.K. business with 1.4 million accounts and $2.5 billion managed loans since 1999 launch Source: Morgan Stanley Notes: (1) Includes Mortgage Lending business scheduled to be transferred to Institutional Securities in 3Q05. Mortgage Lending business had PBT of $51 MM in 2004. (2) Average equity represents 1/12 of average managed net consumer loans, which equals $4.0 Bn for 2004. (PULSE transaction, which added approximately $300 MM in capital, closed in January 2005.) This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 14 was originally presented.
Consistent Profits and Returns Profit Before Tax(1) Return on Managed Receivables(1)(2) - -------------------------------------- ------------------------------------- $MM % [GRAPHIC OMITTED - Graph shows 1.42% 1.52% 1.35% 1.71% 1.61% Profit Before Tax for 2001, 2001 2002 2003 2004 1H05 2002, 2003, 2004 and the first half of 2005 broken out by the first quarter, the second quarter and the second half. For 2001, the numbers were $230 (1st quarter), $279 (2nd quarter), $618 (2nd half) and $1,127 (full year); for 2002, the numbers were $253 (1st quarter), $310 (2nd quarter), $615 (2nd half) and $1,178 (full year); for 2003, the numbers were $293 (1st quarter), $304 (2nd quarter), $496 (2nd half) and $1,093 (full year); for 2004 the numbers were $365 (1st quarter), $297 (2nd quarter), $610 (2nd half) and $1,272 (full year); and for the first half of 2005 the numbers were $380 (1st quarter), $242 (2nd quarter) and $622 (total). (All dollars in $mm).] Source: Morgan Stanley Notes: (1) Includes Mortgage Lending business scheduled to be transferred to Institutional Securities in 3Q05. Mortgage Lending business had PBT of $51 MM in 2004. (2) Return on managed receivables calculated by net income divided by average managed credit card receivables. This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 15 was originally presented.
Step Change Improvement in Credit Risk Profile Charge-off Rate (Managed) 30+ Day Delinquency Rate (Managed) ------------------------------------ ----------------------------------- % % [GRAPHIC OMITTED - Graph shows [GRAPHIC OMITTED - Graph shows Charge-off Rate (managed) for 30+ Day Delinquency Rate Discover (Fiscal year) and the Top 5 (managed) for Discover (Fiscal Issuers (Calendar year) (See footnote year) and the Top 4 Issuers (1) for a description of the Top 5 (Calendar year) (See footnote Issuers) from the first quarter of (2) for a description of the 2003 through the second quarter of Top 4 Issuers) from the First 2005. The plot points for Discover Quarter of 2003 through the are as follows: 6.17% (1Q03); 6.50% Second Quarter of 2005. The (2Q03); 6.90% (3Q03); 6.87% (4Q03); plot points for Discover are as 6.31% (1Q04); 6.48% (2Q04); 5.76% follows: 6.33% (1Q03); 6.21% (3Q04); 5.45% (4Q04); 5.11% (1Q05); (2Q03); 6.05% (3Q03); 5.97% and 4.94% (2Q05). The plot points for (4Q03); 5.80% (1Q04); the Top 5 Issuers are as follows: 4.88% (2Q04); 4.81% (3Q04); 5.84% (1Q03); 5.88% (2Q03); 5.46% 4.55% (4Q04); 4.24% (1Q05); and (3Q03); 5.57% (4Q03); 5.69% (1Q04); 3.90% (2Q05). The plot points 5.63% (2Q04); 5.02% (3Q04); 5.14% for the Top 4 Issuers are as (4Q04); 5.03% (1Q05); and 5.17% follows: 4.62% (1Q03); 4.43% (2Q05).] (2Q03); 4.37% (3Q03); 4.29% (4Q03); 4.07% (1Q04); 3.91% (2Q04); 4.05% (3Q04); 4.01% (4Q04); 3.91% (1Q05); and 3.77% (2Q05).] Source: Morgan Stanley Notes: (1) Top 5 issuer charge-off rates are derived using a weighted average of loss rates from competitor quarterly earnings releases. Competitors included are Bank of America, Capital One (US Cards), Chase, Citigroup (NA Cards), and MBNA (Credit Cards) (2) Top 4 issuers delinquency rates are derived using a weighted average of delinquency rates from competitor quarterly earnings releases. Competitors included are Bank of America, Capital One (US Cards), Chase, and MBNA (Credit Cards). Citigroup does not report 30+ day delinquency. This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 16 was originally presented.
Attractive Discover Growth Trends Change in U.S. Credit Card Receivables Discover Sales Growth (Year/Year)(1) by FICO Score (2Q05 vs. 2Q03) - ---------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- % % --------------------------- --------------------------- 1Q04 1.7 <660 (28) --------------------------- --------------------------- 2Q04 5.5 660-700 (11) --------------------------- --------------------------- 3Q04 1.4 700-760 9 --------------------------- --------------------------- 4Q04 5.7 760+ 14 --------------------------- --------------------------- 1Q05 5.2 --------------------------- 2Q05 8.1 --------------------------- Source: Morgan Stanley Note: (1) Sales represent U.S. and U.K. cardholder purchase dollar volume net of returns This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 17 was originally presented.
Discover Has Leading Brand and Attractive Customer Profile Source: C&R Research, December 2004 Source: Taylor Nelson Sofres (TNS) (Discover Proprietary Research) Global - 2004 Consumer Card Strategies Research Program Note: (1) Represents survey respondents indicating that they hold any general purpose credit card This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 18 was originally presented.
Discover Card's Cashback Bonus Is America's #1 Cash Rewards Program o Industry's largest cash rewards program - 50MM Cardmember base - $550MM cash rewards earned in 2004 o Leading structure - Up to 1% earnings with no expiration - Full 5% on Get More purchases - 50 Cashback Bonus partners - Highly flexible redemption o Loyalty advantage - Low attrition rate - Winner of Brand Key Customer Loyalty award past 7 years This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 19 was originally presented.
Acceptance Leadership With Largest Merchants Credit Network Acceptance(1) by 100 Largest U.S. Retailers ----------------------------------------------------------------- % - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Discover 97 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Visa/MC 95 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Amex 92 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Source: Top 100 U.S. retailers from Triversity (www.stores.org) Note: (1) Chart reflects Discover estimate of credit network acceptance at majority of in-store POS locations. Wal-Mart and Sam's Club counted as two separate merchants This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 20 was originally presented.
Third Party Issuers Are Being Signed Consumer and Business Credit Cards ---------------------------------- [LOGOS OMITTED] ---------------------------------- 4Q04 DOJ suit conclusion allows Discover to sign third party financial institution issuers Mall Cards ---------------------------------- ---------------------------------- o Over 2 million cards issued [LOGOS OMITTED] O 7 third party issuers to date Experiential Cards ---------------------------------- [LOGOS OMITTED] This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 21 was originally presented.
Addition of PULSE Debit Network Broadens Product Set and Customer Base o PULSE acquisition closed 1/05 o Over 4,100 financial institution customers Source: ATM & Debit News (9/16/04) - Survey as Source: Company Data of March 2004 This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 22 was originally presented.
China UnionPay Agreement - Greater Acceptance and Volume o Agreement signed May 2005 - Long term - Exclusive component o Provides acceptance in China through largest domestic network - 130+ bank issuers - 400,000+ merchants - 60,000+ ATMs - Approximately 3 times greater acceptance in China versus Visa/MasterCard o Generates incremental volume on our PULSE Network - Possible extension to Discover Network - China UnionPay has 800 million cards [LOGOS OMITTED] This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 23 was originally presented.
Current Credit Card Industry Risks o Rising cost of funds pressuring spreads o Slow industry loan growth / rising payment rates o Future loan loss rate uncertainty, especially given bankruptcy reform and changing minimum payment requirements o Consolidating industry / competitive pressures o Increasing marketing constraints (including opt-out lists) This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 24 was originally presented.
New Era for Discover Financial Services This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 25 was originally presented.
Discover Financial Services Strategy o Deliver sustained growth in revenues and profits by promoting the virtuous circle of merchant acceptance and cardmember usage - Increasing Discover Card usage and credit balances, leveraging our #1 cash rewards program, top-rated customer service, and leading brand - Maintaining and capitalizing on strong credit quality and a more loyal, attractive cardmember base - Enhancing merchant acceptance and the economics of Discover and PULSE Networks - Attracting third-party issuers to the Discover and PULSE Networks, such as GE consumer finance and Wal-Mart/Sams's Club - Expanding our international operations [GRAPHIC OMITTED] This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 26 was originally presented.
Q&A This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 27 was originally presented.
Appendix This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 28 was originally presented.
Implications of AWAS Divestiture Accounting o Aircraft business will be classified as Held for Sale in 3Q05 o Results of operations for Held for Sale assets and liabilities will be reported as discontinued operation (prior periods will be restated) o After-tax loss currently estimated at $1.0 billion o Assets and liabilities of aircraft business would be recorded at fair value o Appraised values of the portfolio of aircraft represent a summation of each of the estimated values of the aircraft assuming each aircraft is sold individually - Appraisal values received in August 2005 - Range of $2.5 billion to $3.3 billion; average $2.8 billion o Appraisal values do not consider: - Ongoing costs of running the business - Long-term prospects of the business as a whole - Divestiture of a large number of planes at one time o Estimated value of the business based on: - Evaluation of current market conditions - Recent transactions involving the sales of similar aircraft leasing businesses - Detailed assessment of the portfolio - Additional valuation analysis Capital/Regulatory o The Firm's capital adequacy objectives (economic capital requirements and leverage considerations) continue to be met This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 29 was originally presented.
Retail Brokerage Business: Client Segmentation Source: Morgan Stanley Note: Segmentation analysis includes retail broad-based branch system and U.S. UHNW client assets This slide is part of a presentation by Morgan Stanley and is intended to be viewed as part of that presentation. The presentation is based on information generally available to the public and does not contain any material, non-public information. No representation is made that it is accurate or complete. The presentation has been prepared solely for informational purposes, is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy any security or instrument and has not been updated since it Morgan Stanley 30 was originally presented.
Morgan Stanley John Mack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David H. Sidwell, Chief Financial Officer David W. Nelms, Chairman & CEO, Discover Financial Services August 17, 2005


