FILE:MS/MS-8K-20060404170202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     
On April 4, 2006, the independent directors of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Morgan Stanley (the "Company") elected C. Robert Kidder to serve as lead director, effective immediately. The Board created the position of lead director in 2005. Miles L. Marsh had served as lead director prior to his resignation from the Board in December 2005.
   Item 8.01. Other Events.
      The annual meeting of stockholders of the Company was held on April 4, 2006.
     
The stockholders voted on proposals to elect directors ("Item 1A") and to elect additional directors, contingent upon the approval of the Company's proposal described in clause (1) of the next sentence ("Item 1B"), and to ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent auditors. The stockholders also voted on Company proposals to amend the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to (1) accelerate the declassification of the Board of Directors; (2) remove the provision requiring plurality voting for directors; and (3) eliminate certain supermajority voting requirements.
     
The stockholders also acted on three stockholder proposals regarding (1) director elections; (2) simple majority vote; and (3) future severance agreements with senior executives.
     
All nominees for election to the Board set forth in Items 1A or 1B were elected to the terms of office set forth in the Proxy Statement dated February 24, 2006. The stockholders' vote ratified the appointment of the independent auditors and approved the amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation. The stockholder proposal regarding director elections was not approved, and the stockholder proposals regarding simple majority vote and future severance agreements with senior executives were approved. The number of votes cast for, against or withheld, and the number of abstentions and broker non-votes with respect to each proposal, is set forth below. The Company's independent inspector of elections reported the vote of the stockholders as follows:
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


