FILE:MS/MS-8K-20060214173600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     
On February 14, 2006, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") and Mr. John J. Mack, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2005, as further amended on December 13, 2005 (the "Agreement"), between the Company and Mr. Mack, to eliminate the guaranteed cash severance payable under the Agreement in the event that, during Mr. Mack's five-year term of employment ending on June 30, 2010, Mr. Mack's employment is terminated other than for Cause, death or Disability or Mr. Mack terminates his employment for Good Reason (capitalized terms are defined in the Agreement). This summary is qualified by the entirety of the terms and conditions set forth in the Amendment to the Agreement that is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
   
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     
(c) On February 8, 2006, the Company announced that Zoe Cruz, who had been Acting President of the Company, was appointed Co-President of the Company, and that Robert Scully was appointed Co-President with Ms. Cruz. The appointments are effective immediately. The Company's related press release is filed as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
   
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(d) Exhibits
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     
This Amendment (the "") entered into as of February 14, 2006 amends the AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT by and between Morgan Stanley (the ""), and John J. Mack (the "") dated as of September 20, 2005 as further amended on December 13, 2005 (the "").
Amendment
Company
Executive
Agreement
     
WHEREAS, the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") and the Executive have determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to amend the Agreement to eliminate the Executive's right to receive cash severance in the event his employment is terminated other than by reason of Cause, death or Disability or in the event the Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason (as such terms are defined in the Agreement);
Committee
     
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is mutually acknowledged, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
     
1. Subsection (i) of Section 5(a) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the following: "(i) the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump-sum cash payment as soon as practicable after the Date of Termination the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid.";
     
2. The references to "Section 5(a)(i)(A)" in Section 5(a)(iv) and Section 5(b) of the Agreement are hereby deleted and replaced with "Section 5(a)(i)"; and
     
3.
Section 5(c) is amended so that:
     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from the Committee, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.



