FILE:MS/MS-8K-20071205161026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b) On November 29, 2007, Morgan Stanley (the Company) announced that, effective December 1, 2007, Zoe Cruz, who had been Co-President of the Company, would retire from the Company.
 
(c) On November 29, 2007, the Company announced that, effective December 1, 2007, Robert W. Scully, who had been Co-President of the Company, would become a member of the Office of the Chairman of the Company.   In addition, on November 29, 2007, the Company announced that, effective December 1, 2007, Walid A. Chammah, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International, and James P. Gorman, Co-Head of Strategic Planning and President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management business of the Company, were appointed Co-Presidents of the Company.
 
Mr. Scully, 57, served as Co-President of the Company since February 2006.  Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Scully was Chairman of Global Capital Markets of the Company (December 2004 to February 2006) and Vice Chairman of Investment Banking of the Company (September 1999 to February 2006).  Mr Scully is also a director of GMAC LLC (since November 2006).
Mr. Chammah, 53, has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International since July 2007.  Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Chammah was Head of Investment Banking of the Company (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets of the Company (July 2002 to August  2005).
Mr. Gorman, 49, has served as Co-Head of Strategic Planning of the Company since October 2007 and as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management business of the Company since February 2006.  Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Gorman was Head of Corporate Acquisitions, Strategy and Research at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).
The Companys related press release is filed as exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d)  Exhibits
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Press Release
 
Walid Chammah and James Gorman Named Co-Presidents of Morgan Stanley
New Leadership Team Also Includes Bob Scully Joining Office of the Chairman and Michael Petrick Serving as Head of Trading; Zoe
Cruz to Retire After 25 Years of Distinguished Service to the Firm
Nov 29 2007 | New York 
 
Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today announced a number of management chang
es, effective December 1, 2007, including appointing:
 
 
In connection with these management changes, Co-President Zoe Cru
z is retiring from the Firm after 25 years of service to Morgan Stanley. 
Mr. Mack said, 
Throughout her 25 years of distinguished service, Zoe has always demonstrated a deep commitment to Morgan Stanley.  She has helped to build some of our most importan
t
and successful businesses and worked tirelessly to strengthen and grow our global franchise.  We greatly appreciate the enormous contributions Zoe has made in a wide variety of roles, and we are confident that she will continue to do great things in the
y
ears ahead.
 
Mr. Mack continued, 
Morgan Stanley
s business is strong and growing.  We see significant opportunities to build on the market leadership positions we have across our global franchise and to take advantage of the strong foundation we
ve put
 
in place in recent years.  Today
s markets, however, are changing rapidly, and we
re putting in place a leadership team that is ideally suited to help Morgan Stanley realize the opportunities ahead, while continuing to navigate the current challenging con
d
itions.
 
Walid and James are the right team with the right skills to lead Morgan Stanley now and to drive the Firm forward to a new level of success.  They are both exceptional leaders with a proven ability across many years to assemble and lead strong
t
eams and build successful, profitable businesses.  James has led a dramatic turnaround of our Wealth Management group
revitalizing its culture and transforming it into one of most dynamic competitors in the industry.  He also has played a key role in be
t
ter integrating our securities businesses, and most recently, has begun to play a key role in developing strategy for the entire Firm.  Walid, during his 14 years with Morgan Stanley, has held key leadership roles throughout the Firm and played a critical
l
y important part in strengthening our culture.  After starting his career in fixed income and structured products, he helped found and lead our Global Capital Markets group, reinvigorated our world-class Investment Banking franchise, and recently assumed
l
eadership of the Firm
s growing European and Middle East businesses.  Both Walid and James are widely respected within the Firm, among our clients and across the industry, and I am confident they will be strong partners and decisive leaders in their new r
o
les.
 
Mr. Mack concluded, 
We have a number of other strong executives taking on new responsibilities
including Bob Scully, who has a strong track record of growing key relationships around the globe and providing insightful strategic counsel to our clie
nts, and Mitch Petrick, who has extensive trading experience across a range of fixed income businesses and who has played a key role in building our principal investment group.  Together with the rest of our senior management team, I am confident we have
t
he right people in the right places to build on the strong momentum in many of our businesses and realize the enormous growth opportunities we see ahead.
 
Ms. Cruz said, 
One of the things that has always made Morgan Stanley so special is its incredibly ta
lented team and its unwavering commitment to its clients.  And, it has been a real privilege for me to spend the past 25 years at this great Firm
while working alongside of and learning from some of the smartest and most talented people in the business. 
I am confident that Morgan Stanley and its people will continue to build on their leadership position in the years to come, and I wish all of my colleagues well.
 
Morgan Stanley plans to announce its fourth quarter earnings during the week of December 17,
2007.  Additionally, Morgan Stanley reiterated that its disclosures in early November reflect the full extent of the Firm
s direct subprime-related exposure, as of October 31, 2007.  The Company noted at that time that the actual impact on the Firm
s fou
r
th quarter financial results would fluctuate based on market conditions in November.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services. 
The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 32 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit
www.morganstanley.com
.
 
Note to Editors:
 
Walid Chammah
 
Walid Chammah, 53, joined Morgan Stanley in 1993 as Head of U.S. Debt Capital Markets.  In 1996, he was promoted to Worldwide Head of Debt Capital Markets Services.  In 2001, Mr. Chammah's respons
ibilities were extended to include Worldwide Leveraged Finance and in 2002, he formed and was Head of the Global Capital Markets Group, which combined the Firm
s debt and equity capital markets activities.  In 2005, Mr. Chammah was named Global Head of In
v
estment Banking and in July 2007, he was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International overseeing all of the Firm
s operations in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.
 
Before joining Morgan Stanley, Mr. Chammah was a managing di
rector of Credit Suisse First Boston, responsible for U.S. Taxable Fixed Income Capital Markets and Structured Finance Groups.  He had previously been a senior vice president with Blyth Eastman PaineWebber, responsible for liability management swaps. 
 
A na
tive of Lebanon, Mr. Chammah graduated from the American University of Beirut with a Bachelor of Business Administration in 1976 and received a Masters Degree in International Management from American Graduate School of International Management in 1977.
 
Ja
mes P. Gorman
 
James P. Gorman, 49, joined Morgan Stanley in February 2006 as the President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (GWMG). In October 2007, Mr. Gorman took on the additional role of Co-Head of Strategic Planning wi
th Chief Financial Officer Colm Kelleher. In this role, Mr. Gorman works closely with other senior managers on continuing to develop global strategic initiatives for the Firm.
 
Prior to joining Morgan Stanley in February 2006, Mr. Gorman held a succession o
f executive positions at Merrill Lynch, including leading from 2001 to 2005 the company
s U.S. and, subsequently, global private client businesses, the equivalent of GWMG at Morgan Stanley. Before joining Merrill Lynch, Mr. Gorman served as a senior partn
e
r of McKinsey & Company, where he was a member of the financial services practice, and as an attorney in Melbourne, Australia.
 
Mr. Gorman is a trustee of the Columbia Business School and of the Spence and St. Bernard
s schools in New York City. He was form
erly a member of the board of directors of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association in Washington, D.C., and served as Board Chairman in 2006.  A native of Australia, Mr. Gorman earned a B.A. and law degree from the University of Melbourn
e
and an M.B.A. from Columbia University.
 
Michael Petrick
 
Michael (Mitch) Petrick, 45, joined Morgan Stanley in 1989 and has been a Managing Director since 1996. He became head of the Firm
s Distressed Debt business in 1999, and was named Head of High Yield
and Leveraged Finance in 2001.  In 2005, he became head of the Corporate Credit Group and Head of Morgan Stanley Principal Investments.
 
Prior to joining the Firm, Mitch spent two years at First Interstate Bank as a High Yield Portfolio Manager.
 
Mitch curr
ently serves as a director of DigitalGlobe and TVN Entertainment.  Previous directorships include American Household, Marvel Entertainment, Premium Standard Farms, Pacific & Atlantic and CHI Energy.  Mitch graduated with a B.A. in Chemistry and Economics
f
rom Grinnell College in 1984.  He earned his M.B.A. in Finance from the University of Chicago in 1987.
 
 
Contact Media Relations:
Jeanmarie McFadden, 212.762.6901
 
 
 


