FILE:MS/MS-8K-20071219073101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the
registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On December 19, 2007, Morgan Stanley (the "Registrant") released financial
information with respect to its fiscal year and quarter ended November 30, 2007.  A copy of the
press release containing this information is annexed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report and by
this reference incorporated herein and made a part hereof. In addition, a copy of
the Registrant's Financial Data Supplement for its fiscal year and quarter ended November 30,
2007 is annexed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Report and by this reference incorporated
herein and made a part hereof.
 
The information furnished under Item 2.02 of this Report, including
Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
99.1
Press release of the Registrant dated December 19, 2007 containing financial information for the fourth quarter ended November 30, 2007.
 
99.2
Quarterly Financial Data Supplement of the Registrant for the
fourth quarter ended November 30, 2007.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Morgan Stanley Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results
Full Year Net Revenues of $28.0 Billion and EPS from Continuing Operations of $2.37
Record Full Year Results in Investment Banking, Equities and Asset Management; Global Wealth Management PBT Increases 127 Percent from 2006
Fourth Quarter Results Reflect an Additional $5.7 Billion of Mortgage Related Writedowns in November Beyond Those Previously Announced as of October 31
Firm Further Bolsters Its Strong Capital Position With a Long-Term Investment of Approximately $5 Billion from China Investment Corporation
Firm Also Has Moved Aggressively to Put in Place New Senior Leadership, Consolidate Proprietary Trading Activities and Further Enhance Risk Management
NEW YORK, December 19, 2007  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today reported income from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007 of $2,563 million, or $2.37 per diluted share, compared with $6,335 million, or $5.99 per diluted share, a year ago.  Net revenues of $28.0 billion were the second highest in Firm history, although they decreased 6 percent from the record revenues of $29.8 billion in 2006.  Non-interest expenses of $24.6 billion were 19 percent above 2006.  The return on average common equity from continuing operations was 7.8 percent, compared with 23.8 percent the prior year.
The additional $5.7 billion writedown of U.S. subprime, and other mortgage related exposures in November, and the $3.7 billion writedown as of October 31 (as announced on November 7), result in a total fourth quarter writedown of approximately $9.4 billion.  In total, these writedowns reduced full year earnings per diluted share from continuing operations and the return on average common equity from continuing operations by approximately $5.80 and 19 percentage points, respectively.
The loss from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $3,588 million, or $3.61 per diluted share, compared with income from continuing operations of $1,982 million, or $1.87 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006.  Net revenues were negative $450 million, compared with $7,849 million in last year's fourth quarter.  Non-interest expenses of $5.4 billion increased 3 percent from last year.
Net income for the year was $3,209 million, or $2.98 per diluted share, compared with $7,472 million, or $7.07 per diluted share, a year ago.  The return on average common equity for the year was 8.9 percent compared with 23.5 percent a year ago.  For the quarter, the net loss was $3,588 million, or $3.61 per diluted share, compared with net income of $2,206 million, or $2.08 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006.  The results for Discover Financial Services prior to its spin-off on June 30, 2007 are reported in discontinued operations on an after-tax basis.
1
Morgan Stanley, with the exception of its mortgage related businesses, delivered exceptionally strong performance this year:
2
John J. Mack, Chairman and CEO, said, The writedown Morgan Stanley took this quarter is deeply disappointing  to me, to our colleagues, to our Board and to our shareholders.  Ultimately, accountability for our results rests with me, and I believe in pay for performance, so Ive told our compensation committee that I will not accept a bonus for 2007.  Across the Firm, we have moved aggressively to make the necessary changes, and these isolated losses by a small trading team in one part of the Firm should not overshadow the momentum we see in virtually all of our other businesses.  In 2007, Morgan Stanley delivered record results in Investment Banking, Equities and Asset Management, and pre-tax income more than doubled in Global Wealth Management.  We have put in place a new leadership team that has the right skills to help us build on that strong performance and realize the tremendous opportunities across Morgan Stanleys world-class franchise.  As we look to drive growth and profitability, we also have consolidated our proprietary trading activities, further enhanced our risk management function and bolstered our already strong capital position with a long-term investment from China Investment Corporation.  While market conditions are likely to be challenging, we are moving forward with an intense focus on continuing to build our global platform and delivering value for our clients and our shareholders.
Firm Further Bolsters Its Strong Capital Position With a Long-Term Investment of Approximately $5 Billion from China Investment Corporation
Morgan Stanley also said that it has entered into an agreement with China Investment Corporation Ltd. (CIC), as a long-term financial investor to issue new capital of approximately $5 billion through Equity Units with mandatory conversion into common stock.  These Equity Units will help to further bolster the Firm's strong capital position and enhance growth opportunities globally, while also building on Morgan Stanley's deep historic ties and market leadership in China. 
3
 
Mr. Mack said, Morgan Stanley has a long-standing commitment to China and has built a clear leadership position in the region, having helped raise $45 billion for Chinese clients in the international capital markets since 2000.  We are delighted to welcome CIC as a long-term investor in Morgan Stanley, and believe it is an important step in increasing the flow of capital between our countries and across these increasingly critical markets.
The investments we've made in China over the past two years have helped strengthen our global platform and financial performance.  The investment from CIC will help to strengthen our deep ties in these growth markets and ensure that Morgan Stanley has the resources necessary to pursue growth opportunities globally across our Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management and Asset Management businesses into 2008 and beyond.
CICs ownership in Morgan Stanley's common shares, including the conversion of these Equity Units, will be 9.9 percent or less of Morgan Stanley's total shares outstanding.  CIC will be a passive financial investor.  CIC will have no special rights of ownership and no role in the management of Morgan Stanley, including no right to designate a member of the Firms Board of Directors.
Each Equity Unit is mandatorily convertible into Morgan Stanley shares at prices between a reference price and a threshold price at a premium of 20 percent to the reference price.  The reference price will be determined the week of December 17, 2007.  The Equity Units convert to Morgan Stanley common shares on August 17, 2010, subject to adjustment of the stock purchase date.  Each Equity Unit will pay a fixed annual payment rate of 9 percent, payable quarterly.
Actions to Address Disruption in Mortgage Securities Market and Build on Momentum Across Business
Morgan Stanley has taken a number of actions to address the disruption in the mortgage securities market and continue building on the momentum across most of its businesses, including:
4
 
Fourth Quarter Writedowns Reflects Continued Deterioration in the Mortgage Markets
During the fourth quarter, the Firm recognized a total of $9.4 billion in mortgage related writedowns as a result of the continued deterioration and lack of liquidity in the market for subprime and other mortgage related securities since August 2007.  Of this total, $7.8 billion represents writedowns of the Firms U.S. subprime trading positions (including the $3.7 billion writedown of subprime assets announced on November 7, based on valuations as of October 31).  As indicated at the time of that announcement, year-end valuations depended on subsequent market conditions.  Our valuation of this position as of November 30 takes into consideration a variety of inputs including observable trades, the continued deterioration in market conditions, the decline in the ABX Indices, other market developments, including mortgage remittances and updated cumulative loss data.  The Firms remaining direct net U.S. subprime exposure is $1.8 billion at November 30, down from $10.4 billion at August 31.  The value of these positions remains subject to mark-to-market volatility.  An updated schedule defining and detailing the Firms direct U.S. subprime net exposure is included in the financial supplement.
In addition, the Firms $9.4 billion in mortgage related writedowns also includes $1.2 billion of writedowns related to European Non-Conforming Loans, CMBS, ALT-A, and Non-Performing and Other Loans.
The writedowns also included an additional $0.4 billion related to securities in the Firms subsidiary banks classified as "available for sale".  The portfolios have been redesignated as trading effective November 30, 2007 and all future valuation adjustments will be marked-to-market through the income statement.  All of the securities in these portfolios are exclusively AAA-rated residential mortgage-backed securities, and the portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or CDOs.
2
5
 
INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES
 
FULL YEAR
 
Institutional Securities reported pre-tax income of $817 million, an 89 percent decrease from 2006.  Net revenues decreased 24 percent to $16.1 billion as record results in equity sales and trading, advisory and underwriting were more than offset by lower results in fixed income sales and trading.  The year's pre-tax margin was 5 percent compared with 37 percent in 2006 and the full year return on average common equity was 4 percent compared with 30 percent in the prior year.
3
6
 
FOURTH QUARTER
 
Institutional Securities posted a pre-tax loss of $6,479 million, down from $2,200 million of pre-tax income in the fourth quarter of 2006 primarily reflecting the mortgage related writedowns noted above.  Net revenues were a loss of $3.4 billion compared with net revenues of $5.5 billion a year ago.
7
 
GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP
 
FULL YEAR
 
Global Wealth Management reported pre-tax income of $1,155 million compared with last year's $508 million.  The year's pre-tax margin was 17 percent compared with 9 percent in 2006 and the return on average common equity was 41 percent compared with 11 percent last year, reflecting the increase in net income and lower capital required for this business.
FOURTH QUARTER
 
Global Wealth Management Group's pre-tax income for the fourth quarter was $378 million, a 124 percent increase from $169 million in the fourth quarter of last year.  The quarter's pre-tax margin was 21 percent compared with 12 percent in last year's fourth quarter.  The quarter's return on average common equity was 52 percent compared with 17 percent a year ago, reflecting the increase in net income and lower capital required for this business.
 
8
 
ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
FULL YEAR
 
Asset Management's pre-tax income was $1,467 million, a 72 percent increase from last year's $851 million.  The year's pre-tax margin was 27 percent compared with 25 percent a year ago.  Full year return on average common equity was 26 percent, up from 21 percent in the prior year.
9
FOURTH QUARTER
 
Asset Managements pre-tax income for the fourth quarter was $294 million compared with $268 million in the fourth quarter of last year.  The quarters pre-tax margin was 24 percent compared with 28 percent a year ago and the return on average common equity was 18 percent compared with 23 percent in last years fourth quarter.  The results for the quarter include losses of approximately $129 million related to securities issued by structured investment vehicles (SIV losses) held by Asset Management.
OTHER MATTERS
 
The annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 was 24.5 percent, down from 30.1 percent a year ago primarily reflecting lower earnings which increased the effect of permanent differences.  The prior year included an income tax benefit resulting from the outcome of a federal tax audit.  Excluding this benefit, the annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2006 would have been 32.8 percent.
10
 
As of November 30, 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 52 million shares of its common stock since the end of fiscal 2006.
The Firm's Tier 1 equity and common equity averaged $32.3 billion and $32.9 billion, respectively for the quarter and $29.4 billion and $30.2 billion, respectively at November 30, 2007.  The Firm's economic capital model is based on a going concern approach that assigns economic capital to each segment based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses, goodwill and principal investment risk to ensure that the amount of capital at the Firm supports the risks of our business activities.  While the Firm continues to maintain total capital levels which significantly exceed regulatory capital requirements, at quarter end because of the loss for the quarter and the increase in the capital assigned to the Institutional Securities segment, the Firm's unallocated economic capital was a negative $4.1 billion.  We believe in being strongly capitalized to ensure we can take advantage of business opportunities as they arise in addition to meeting the requirements of regulators. The long-term capital investment of approximately $5 billion from CIC will further strengthen the  Firms capital position and allow us to meet these objectives.
During the quarter, the Company completed an initial public offering of a minority interest in its MSCI business.
The Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a $0.27 quarterly dividend per common share.  The dividend is payable on January 31, 2008, to common shareholders of record on January 11, 2008.  The Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $379.66 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.37966) to be paid on January 15, 2008 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31, 2007.
Total capital as of November 30, 2007 was $193.7 billion, including $36.1 billion of common shareholders' equity, preferred equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts.  Book value per common share was $28.56, based on 1.1 billion shares outstanding.
11
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 33 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit .
www.morganstanley.com
A financial summary follows.  Financial, statistical and business-related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the Financial Supplement.  Both the earnings release and the Financial Supplement are available online in the Investor Relations section at .
www.morganstanley.com
The information above contains forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and which reflect management's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, please see "Forward-Looking Statements" immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, "Competition" and "Regulation" in Part I, Item 1, "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A and "Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q and other items throughout the Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and the Company's Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
Source: Thomson Financial  for the period of January 1, 2007 to November 30, 2007.
1
 
Includes Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah) and Morgan Stanley Trust FSB.
2
 
Represents income / (loss) from continuing operations before gains / (losses) from unconsolidated investees and taxes.
3
 
The merchant banking business includes the Real Estate, Private Equity and Infrastructure businesses.
4
 
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
The following (page 14) presents a reconciliation for adjusted assets.
 
Balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a companys overall
liquidity and capital policies. The Company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial
risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. The Company has adopted a definition
of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and / or liquidity risk.
These low-risk assets generally are attributable to the Companys matched book and securities lending businesses.
Adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed l
ess non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 and FASB
Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46R). Gross assets
are also reduced by the full amount of cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under
federal and other regulations or requirements. The adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders
equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the Company does not view this
amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). In addition, the Company views junior subordinated
debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities.
These characteristics include the long-dated nature (e.g., some have final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible
at the Companys option by a further 19 years, others have a 60-year final maturity at issuance), the Companys ability
to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital
structure. The Company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
This page represents an addendum to the 4Q 2007 Financial Supplement.
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 


