FILE:MS/MS-8K-20071109170104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
In response to market inquiries regarding Morgan Stanleys (the Company)  U.S. subprime related holdings following the Companys press release dated November 7, 2007 (which described the effect of recent market dislocations on its trading portfolio), the Company is providing information regarding certain subprime related securities in the investment portfolios of Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah) and Morgan Stanley Trust FSB (collectively, the Subsidiary Banks).  These portfolios do not include securities that are in the segment of the market that experienced dramatic declines in September and October.  The portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or CDOs.   The securities in the Subsidiary Banks portfolios, which are predominantly classified as securities available for sale in accordance with SFAS 115, , are part of the Companys overall Treasury liquidity management portfolio.
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
At October 31, 2007, the balance sheet value of such securities held by the Subsidiary Banks was $6.7 billion.  All but $10 million of the securities are AAA-rated residential mortgage-backed securities.  Of the total amount, $5.2 billion are comprised of ABS bonds collateralized by first lien subprime mortgages of which $1.2 billion are further enhanced by FHLMC and AAA-rated monoline insurers.  The remaining $1.5 billion of ABS bonds are collateralized by 2 lien subprime mortgages and all but $67 million are enhanced by financial guarantees from AAA-rated monoline insurers.
nd
The information disclosed under Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8K shall be deemed to be filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


