FILE:MS/MS-8K-20070410171649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 28, 2007, Morgan Stanley (the "Company") sold Quilter Holdings Ltd. ("Quilter"), its standalone U.K. mass affluent business. The results of Quilter were formerly included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Form 8-K") to update the historical consolidated financial statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006 (the "2006 Form 10-K") for discontinued operations. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144"), revenues and expenses associated with Quilter have been classified as discontinued operations in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended February 28, 2007 that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 6, 2007.
 
Under requirements of the SEC, the same classification as discontinued operations required by SFAS No. 144 is also required for previously issued financial statements for each of the three years presented in the Company's 2006 Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the sale of Quilter. This reclassification has no effect on the Company's reported net income for any reporting period.
 
The net gain/(loss) from discontinued operations that has been recast from continuing operations was as follows (dollars in millions):
 
 
The historical financial information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 has been revised and updated from its previous presentation solely to reflect the reclassifications for discontinued operations described above for the following periods:
 
 
The Company has not modified or updated any other disclosures included in the 2006 Form 10-K, including reclassifications related to the presentation of revenues and expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2007).
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 10, 2007
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements (as amended) of Morgan Stanley of our report dated February 12, 2007 (April 10, 2007 as to the effects of the discontinued operations discussed in Note 30), appearing in the Current Report on Form 8-K of Morgan Stanley dated April 10, 2007, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley and our reports dated February 12, 2007, relating to the financial statement schedule and management's report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006 (which reports on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule express an unqualified opinion and include explanatory paragraphs relating to the adoption, in fiscal 2005, of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" and relating to, in fiscal 2006, Morgan Stanley's change in accounting policy for recognition of equity awards granted to retirement-eligible employees and relating to, in fiscal 2006, the application of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements"):
 
Filed on Form S-3:
Registration Statement No. 33-57202
Registration Statement No. 33-60734
Registration Statement No. 33-89748
Registration Statement No. 33-92172
Registration Statement No. 333-07947
Registration Statement No. 333-27881
Registration Statement No. 333-27893
Registration Statement No. 333-27919
Registration Statement No. 333-46403
Registration Statement No. 333-46935
Registration Statement No. 333-76111
Registration Statement No. 333-75289
Registration Statement No. 333-34392
Registration Statement No. 333-47576
Registration Statement No. 333-83616
Registration Statement No. 333-106789
Registration Statement No. 333-117752
Registration Statement No. 333-129243
Registration Statement No. 333-131266
 
Filed on Form S-4:
Registration Statement No. 333-25003
 
Filed on Form S-8:
Registration Statement No. 33-63024
Registration Statement No. 33-63026
Registration Statement No. 33-78038
Registration Statement No. 33-79516
Registration Statement No. 33-82240
Registration Statement No. 33-82242
Registration Statement No. 33-82244
Registration Statement No. 333-04212
Registration Statement No. 333-28141
Registration Statement No. 333-28263
Registration Statement No. 333-62869
Registration Statement No. 333-78081
Registration Statement No. 333-95303
Registration Statement No. 333-85148
Registration Statement No. 333-85150
Registration Statement No. 333-108223
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
 
Introduction.
 
Morgan Stanley (the "Company") is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segmentsInstitutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group, Asset Management and Discover. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. A summary of the activities of each of the segments follows:
 
includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity securities and related products and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; research; and investment activities.
Institutional Securities
 
provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and insurance products; credit and other lending products; banking and cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.
Global Wealth Management Group
 
provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments and private equity to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third party retail distribution channels, intermediaries and the Company's institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.
Asset Management
 
offers Discover-branded credit cards and related consumer products and services and operates the Discover Network, a merchant and cash access network for Discover Network-branded cards, and PULSE EFT Association LP ("PULSE"), an automated teller machine/debit and electronic funds transfer network. Discover also offers consumer finance products and services in the U.K., including Morgan Stanley-branded, Goldfish-branded and various other credit cards issued on the MasterCard and Visa networks.
Discover
 
On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved the spin-off of Discover (the "Discover Spin-off") (see "Discover Spin-off" herein).
 
The Company's results of operations for the 12 months ended November 30, 2006 ("fiscal 2006"), November 30, 2005 ("fiscal 2005") and November 30, 2004 ("fiscal 2004") are discussed below. The results of the aircraft leasing business are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale on March 24, 2006 (see "Discontinued Operations" herein). The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. ("Quilter"), Global Wealth Management Group's mass affluent business in the U.K., are also reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented (see "Discontinued Operations" herein).
 
Results of Operations.
 
Executive Summary.
 
Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2006 Performance.
 
    The Company recorded net income of $7,472 million in fiscal 2006, a 51% increase from $4,939 million in the prior year. Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense and the provision for loan losses) rose 26% to a record $33,752 million in fiscal 2006, and non-interest expenses increased 18% to $22,779 million. Diluted earnings per share were $7.07 compared with $4.57 a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense increased 27%, primarily reflecting higher net revenues. Non-compensation expenses increased 5% as costs associated with higher levels of business activity were partially offset by lower charges for legal and regulatory matters. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $7.08 compared with $4.80 last year. The return on average common equity in fiscal 2006 was 23.5% compared with 17.3% in the prior year. The return on average common equity from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 was 23.5% compared with 18.9% last year.
Company Results
.
 
Results for fiscal 2006 included non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $270 million for stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees (see "Other ItemsStock-Based Compensation" herein). Results for fiscal 2005 included a charge of $509 million ($316 million after-tax) for discontinued operations related to the sale of the aircraft leasing business (see "Other ItemsDiscontinued Operations" herein). In addition, pre-tax results for fiscal 2005 included a $360 million charge related to the , legal accruals of approximately $120 million related to the Parmalat matter, a $109 million charge for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases, charges for senior management severance and new hires of approximately $311 million, and a gain of $251 million related to an insurance settlement (see "Other Items" herein).
Coleman Litigation
 
The Company's effective income tax rate was 30.4% in fiscal 2006 compared with 26.5% in fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2006's income tax provision included an income tax benefit of $280 million resulting from the resolution of a federal tax audit, while fiscal 2005's income tax provision included an income tax benefit of $309 million related to the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act (see "Other Items" herein). Excluding the benefits from the federal tax audit and the American Jobs Creation Act, the Company's effective income tax rates in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 would have been 33.0% and 30.8%, respectively. The increase primarily reflected lower estimated domestic tax credits and higher earnings, which reduced the effect of permanent differences, partially offset by the effects of lower tax rates applicable to non-U.S. earnings.
 
At fiscal year-end, the Company had 56,310 employees worldwide compared with 53,218 at the prior year-end.
 
    Institutional Securities recorded income from continuing operations before losses from unconsolidated investees, income taxes and net cumulative effect of accounting change of $8,160 million, a 72% increase from a year ago. Net revenues rose 38% to $21,562 million driven by record results in fixed income and equity sales and trading and fixed income underwriting, along with strong results in advisory revenues. Non-interest expenses increased 23% to $13,402 million, primarily due to higher compensation and benefits expense resulting from higher net revenues. Non-compensation expenses were relatively unchanged as higher costs associated with higher levels of business activity were offset by lower charges for legal and regulatory matters.
Institutional Securities.
 
Investment banking revenues rose 24% from last year to $4,318 million. Underwriting revenues rose 24% from last year to $2,475 million. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,843 million, an increase of 25% from fiscal 2005.
 
Fixed income sales and trading revenues were a record $9,577 million, up 41% from a year ago. The increase was driven by record results from commodities, credit products, and interest rate and currency products. Commodities revenues reflected strong results from electricity, natural gas products and oil liquids. Credit product revenues benefited from significantly improved corporate credit trading and strength in residential and commercial securitized products. Commodities and interest rate and currency products benefited from revenues recognized on structured transactions as a result of increased observability of market value (see "Other ItemsAccounting DevelopmentsFair Value Measurements" herein). Equity sales and trading revenues were a record $6,320 million, up 32% from a year ago. The increase was broad based and included higher revenues from derivatives and equity cash products, financing products, prime brokerage and principal trading strategies.
 
Principal transaction net investment revenues increased 125% to $1,477 million in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2006's results primarily related to net gains associated with the Company's investments, including both realized and unrealized gains from investments in the Company's real estate funds, IntercontinentalExchange, Grifols S.A., the NYSE Group, Inc. (the "NYSE") and Wacker Chemie AG.
 
    Global Wealth Management Group recorded income from continuing operations before taxes and net cumulative effect of accounting change of $482 million, down 15% from the prior year. Fiscal 2005 included a benefit of $198 million resulting from the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see "Other ItemsInsurance Settlement" herein), partially offset by a $29 million charge for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases (see "Other ItemsLease Adjustment" herein). Net revenues were $5,399 million, a 10% increase over a year ago, primarily reflecting higher net interest revenue from the bank deposit program and an increase in revenues from fee-based products. Total non-interest expenses were $4,917 million, a 13% increase from a year ago. Excluding the insurance settlement and the lease adjustment, total non-interest expenses increased 8%, primarily reflecting higher compensation and benefits expense resulting from higher net revenues, partially offset by lower non-compensation expenses due to lower charges for legal and regulatory costs. Total client assets increased to $676 billion, up 11% from the prior fiscal year-end. In addition, client assets in fee-based accounts increased 18% from a year ago to a record $195 billion and increased as a percentage of total client assets to 29% from last year's 27%. At fiscal year-end, the number of global representatives was 7,944, a decline of 1,490 from a year ago, resulting largely from planned sales force reductions completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and attrition.
Global Wealth Management Group.
 
    Asset Management recorded income before taxes and net cumulative effect of accounting change of $711 million, a 29% decrease from last year. Net revenues of $2,770 million decreased 5% from the prior year, largely due to lower investment revenues, primarily in the private equity business. Principal transaction net investment gains for the year were $139 million compared with $326 million a year ago. Non-interest expenses increased 8% from the prior year to $2,059 million, primarily reflecting higher compensation and benefits expense associated with critical business initiatives to retain and attract new talent in the business and support areas. Assets under management or supervision within Asset Management of $478 billion were up $47 billion, or 11%, from last year, primarily due to market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows of customer assets. In fiscal 2007, the Company expects that Asset Management's profit margins will be affected by its continued investments in its core business, alternative products and private equity.
Asset Management
.
 
    Discover recorded record income before losses from unconsolidated investees, income taxes and net cumulative effect of accounting change of $1,587 million, an increase of 72% from last year. Net revenues of $4,290 million were 24% higher than a year ago, benefiting from improvements in credit quality and a continued favorable impact on charge-offs following the enactment of federal bankruptcy legislation that became effective in October 2005. Servicing and securitization income of $2,338 million increased 45% from a year ago due primarily to a lower Provision for consumer loan losses and higher Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net. The increase also reflected higher Other revenues, which was attributable to an increase in the fair value of the Company's retained interests in securitized receivables. Non-interest expenses of $2,703 million increased 7% from the prior year, primarily due to costs associated with the Goldfish acquisition (see "Other ItemsBusiness and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions" herein), higher compensation and benefits expense and higher legal costs. In fiscal 2006, Discover's results benefited from the continued favorable credit environment. In fiscal 2007, the Company expects Discover's margins to return to more normal levels.
Discover.
 
The managed credit card net principal charge-off rate decreased 115 basis points from a year ago to 4.08%. The managed over 30-day delinquency rate decreased 47 basis points to 3.51% from a year ago, and the managed over 90-day delinquency rate was 10 basis points lower than a year ago at 1.65%. Managed credit card loans were $50,291 million at year-end, a 7% increase from a year ago.
 
Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal 2006.
 
Global market and economic conditions were generally favorable throughout most of fiscal 2006, which contributed to the increased revenues and net income achieved by the Company during the fiscal year. Although
 
there were concerns about energy prices, inflation and geopolitical risks, activity in the global capital markets was robust, and the volume of merger and acquisition and underwriting transactions increased from the prior year.
 
The U.S. economy continued to demonstrate strength during fiscal 2006. The rate of economic growth was generally strong, although it moderated during the second half of the fiscal year as consumer spending was affected by higher energy prices and a slowdown in the residential real estate market. The U.S. unemployment rate declined to 4.5% from 5.0% at the end of the prior fiscal year. Conditions in the U.S. equity markets were also generally favorable during fiscal 2006. Major equity market indices increased despite experiencing a correction during the summer as the favorable economic environment and strong corporate earnings outweighed concerns about inflation, energy prices and rising interest rates. The Federal Reserve Board (the "Fed") raised both the overnight lending rate and the discount rate by an aggregate of 1.25% in fiscal 2006. The Fed held interest rates steady after the end of June, however, as there were indications that inflationary pressures had subsided.
 
In Europe, economic growth continued at a moderate pace during fiscal 2006, primarily driven by domestic demand and exports. Major equity market indices in Europe increased during the year, reflecting strong corporate profits, merger and acquisition activity, and favorable economic conditions. The European Central Bank (the "ECB") raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 1.25% during fiscal 2006. In December 2006, the ECB raised the benchmark interest rate by an additional 0.25%. Economic growth also continued in the U.K., supported by domestic demand and business investment. The Bank of England (the "BOE") raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.50% during fiscal 2006. In January 2007, the BOE raised the benchmark interest rate by an additional 0.25%.
 
In Japan, economic growth continued to be driven by domestic demand and exports. The level of unemployment also remained relatively low, and Japanese equity market indices increased during the fiscal year. During fiscal 2006, the Bank of Japan raised the benchmark interest rate from 0.0% to 0.25%. Economies elsewhere in Asia also expanded, particularly in China, which benefited from strength in exports, domestic demand and continued globalization. Equity market indices in China increased sharply during the year. In fiscal 2006, the People's Bank of China raised the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.54%.
 
Business Segments.
 
The remainder of "Results of Operations" is presented on a business segment basis before discontinued operations. Substantially all of the Company's operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures.
 
As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company's consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations primarily represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by Asset Management to Global Wealth Management Group associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to Global Wealth Management Group's global representatives. Income before taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations was $33 million, $94 million and $118 million in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. In addition, the results in Institutional Securities for fiscal 2006 included a $30 million advisory fee related to the Company's sale of the aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation.
 
 
 
 
    Investment banking revenues are derived from the underwriting of securities offerings and fees from advisory services. Investment banking revenues were as follows:
Investment Banking
.
 
 
Investment banking revenues increased 24% in fiscal 2006. The increase was due to higher revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and fixed income and equity underwriting transactions. In fiscal 2005, investment banking revenues increased 16%, primarily reflecting higher revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring activities and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by lower revenues from equity underwritings.
 
In fiscal 2006, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 25% to $1,843 million. Advisory fees in fiscal 2006 reflected certain internal revenues, including a $30 million fee related to the Company's sale of the aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation. In fiscal 2005, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 28% to $1,478 million. The results in both fiscal years reflected a strong volume of transaction activity as conditions in the worldwide merger and acquisition markets were generally favorable throughout both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005.
 
Equity underwriting revenues increased 17% to $1,059 million in fiscal 2006 and reflected higher global industry-wide equity and equity-related activity, most notably relating to a strong volume of initial public offerings. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 9% to $905 million in fiscal 2005, reflective of lower global industry-wide equity and equity-related activity.
 
Fixed income underwriting revenues rose 29% to a record $1,416 million in fiscal 2006 and increased 27% to $1,094 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to an increase in underwriting revenues from non-investment grade and investment grade products as the level of issuer refinancings rose due to record levels of maturing debt. The increase in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to higher revenues from global high-yield and securitized fixed income transactions. Acquisition-related financing resulting from a strong market for merger and acquisition activity contributed to the increases in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. Both fiscal years also reflected generally favorable conditions in the global fixed income markets, and, although the Fed increased the overnight interest rate in both fiscal years, longer-term interest rates remained at relatively low levels. The attractive debt financing environment contributed to higher revenues as issuers continued to take advantage of relatively low financing costs.
 
At the end of fiscal 2006, the backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions was higher as compared with the end of fiscal 2005. The backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions is subject to the risk that transactions may not be completed due to unforeseen economic and market conditions, adverse developments regarding one of the parties to the transaction, a failure to obtain required regulatory approval or a decision on the part of the parties involved not to pursue a transaction.
 
    Sales and trading revenues are composed of principal transaction trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views principal trading, commissions and net interest revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company's positions and other related expenses.
Sales and Trading Revenues
.
 
The components of the Company's sales and trading revenues are described below:
 
    Principal transaction trading revenues include revenues from customers' purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company's positions. The Company also engages in proprietary trading activities for its own account.
Principal TransactionsTrading.
 
    Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter ("OTC") equity securities and options.
Commissions.
 
    Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company's prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.
Net Interest.
 
Total sales and trading revenues increased 36% in fiscal 2006 and 18% in fiscal 2005. The increase in both periods reflected higher fixed income and equity sales and trading revenues.
 
Sales and trading revenues included the following:
 
 
Equity sales and trading revenues increased 32% to a record $6,320 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was broad based and included higher revenues from derivatives and equity cash products, financing products, prime brokerage and principal trading strategies. Derivative revenues increased due to strong customer flows, although volatility in the global equity markets continued to be generally low. Revenues from equity cash products reflected higher market volumes, particularly in Europe and Asia. Financing products revenues also benefited from increased client activity. Prime brokerage generated record revenues for the third consecutive fiscal year, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Global equity markets generally trended higher and created favorable opportunities for principal trading strategies. Although commission revenues increased, revenues continued to be affected by intense competition, particularly in the U.S., and a continued shift toward electronic trading.
 
Equity sales and trading revenues increased 18% in fiscal 2005. The increase was broad based and included increased customer flows in derivatives, higher revenues in prime brokerage, improved performance in principal trading strategies and higher revenues from equity cash products. Derivative revenues increased due to strong customer flows despite continued low levels of volatility in the equity markets. Revenues in prime brokerage were driven by robust growth in client balances. Global equity markets generally trended higher and created favorable trading opportunities for principal trading strategies. Revenue from equity cash products rose on higher market volumes, particularly in the European and Asian markets.
 
Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 41% to a record $9,577 million in fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by record results from commodities, credit products, and interest rate and currency products. Commodities revenues increased 112% due to strong results from electricity, natural gas products and oil liquids. Credit product revenues increased 46%, primarily due to significantly improved corporate credit trading and strength in residential and commercial securitized products. Interest rate and currency products increased 4%. Both commodity and interest rate and currency products benefited from revenues recognized on structured transactions as a result of increased observability of market value in accordance with EITF Issue No. 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities" ("EITF Issue No. 02-3"). With the adoption of SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157") on December 1, 2006, the Company will no longer apply the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3 (see "Other ItemsAccounting DevelopmentsFair Value Measurements" herein).
 
Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 22% in fiscal 2005, primarily due to higher revenues from interest rate and currency and credit products, partially offset by lower revenues from commodities products. Interest rate and currency product revenues increased 41% primarily due to higher revenues from interest rate cash and derivative products and higher revenues from emerging market fixed income securities, partially offset by lower revenues from foreign exchange products. Interest rate and currency product revenues benefited from strong new client transaction activity and favorable positioning results. The 19% increase in credit product revenues was primarily due to increased customer flows in securitized products and favorable trading conditions. Commodities revenues decreased 8% from the prior year as lower revenues in oil liquids were partially offset by record results in electricity and natural gas products.
 
In addition to the equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues include the net revenues from the Company's corporate lending activities. In fiscal 2006, revenues from corporate lending activities decreased by approximately $50 million from the prior year. In fiscal 2005, revenues from corporate lending activities decreased by approximately $240 million. In both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, revenues from corporate lending activities reflected the impact of mark-to-market valuations on a higher level of new loans made in both fiscal years.
 
    The Company's investments generally are held for appreciation and to facilitate other business activities. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.
Principal Transactions-Investments.
 
Principal transaction net investment revenues aggregating $1,477 million were recognized in fiscal 2006 as compared with $656 million in fiscal 2005 and $364 million in fiscal 2004. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily related to net gains associated with the Company's investments, including both realized and unrealized gains from investments in the Company's real estate funds, IntercontinentalExchange, Grifols S.A., the NYSE and Wacker Chemie AG. Fiscal 2005's results included gains from investments in IntercontinentalExchange, International Securities Exchange and Digital Globe Inc.
 
    Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from asset management services, primarily fees associated with the Company's real estate fund investment activities.
Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.
 
Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 70% in fiscal 2006 and 6% in fiscal 2005. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily related to higher fees associated with real estate fund investments.
 
    Other revenues consist primarily of revenues from providing benchmark indices and risk management analytics associated with Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc., which includes the results of Barra, Inc. ("Barra"). Other revenues also include revenues related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges and the distribution of refined petroleum products associated with TransMontaigne Inc. ("TransMontaigne") and the marine transportation and logistics services associated with the Heidmar Group (see "Other ItemsBusiness and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions" herein).
Other.
 
Other revenues increased 34% in fiscal 2006 and 58% in fiscal 2005. The increase in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was primarily attributable to higher sales of benchmark indices and risk management analytic products. The increase in fiscal 2006 was also partly attributable to revenues associated with TransMontaigne, which was acquired on September 1, 2006.
 
    Non-interest expenses increased 23% in fiscal 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased 36%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs resulting from higher net revenues. Fiscal 2006 also included Institutional Securities' share ($190 million) of incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees (see "Other ItemsStock-Based Compensation" herein), while fiscal 2005 included Institutional Securities' share ($193 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see "Other ItemsSenior Management Compensation Charges" herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses remained relatively unchanged. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 6%, primarily due to a $71 million charge that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases (see "Other ItemsLease Adjustment" herein). Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 32%, primarily reflecting increased equity and fixed income trading activity. Professional services expense increased 18%, primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs, reflecting increased levels of business activity. Other expenses decreased 49%
Non-Interest Expenses.
 
due to lower charges for legal and regulatory matters. Fiscal 2006 reflected a net reduction in legal accruals of approximately $40 million related to the , the LVMH litigation and the settlement of the . Other expenses in fiscal 2005 included legal accruals of $360 million related to the and approximately $170 million related to the Parmalat settlement and the .
IPO
Allocation Matters
General American Litigation
Coleman Litigation
IPO Allocation Matters
 
Fiscal 2005's total non-interest expenses increased 24%. Compensation and benefits expense increased 21%, reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs due to higher net revenues and Institutional Securities' share ($193 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 29%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 41%, reflecting higher rental costs, primarily in North America. The increase also included a $71 million charge for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 14%, primarily reflecting increased trading activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 11%, primarily due to higher telecommunications, market data and data processing costs. Professional services expense increased 31%, primarily due to higher consulting and legal costs, including costs of $55 million related to the matters below. Other expenses increased 71%, reflecting legal accruals of $360 million related to the , approximately $170 million related to the Parmalat settlement and the , while fiscal 2004 included legal accruals of $110 million related to the Parmalat settlement and the .
Coleman Litigation
IPO Allocation Matters
IPO Allocation Matters
 
 
 
 
    Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Revenues also include fees earned from offerings underwritten by the Institutional Securities business. Investment banking revenues increased 34% and 10% in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The increase in both periods was primarily due to higher revenues from equity-related offerings and unit trust products. The increase in fiscal 2005 was partially offset by lower revenues from fixed income underwritings.
Investment Banking.
 
    Principal transactions include revenues from customers' purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company's inventory positions held, primarily to facilitate customer transactions. Principal transaction trading revenues increased 2% in fiscal 2006, primarily reflecting higher revenue from foreign exchange products, equity linked notes and municipal fixed income securities, partially offset by lower revenues from corporate and government fixed income products and other securities. In fiscal 2005, principal transaction trading revenues decreased 10%, primarily due to lower customer transaction activity in corporate, government and municipal fixed income securities.
Principal TransactionsTrading.
 
    Principal transaction net investment revenues were $53 million in fiscal 2006 compared with a net loss of $(1) million in fiscal 2005 and a net loss of $(5) million in fiscal 2004. The results in fiscal 2006 were primarily related to realized and unrealized gains on the Company's investments in Bolsas y Mercados Espaoles (BME) and the NYSE.
Principal TransactionsInvestments.
 
    Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues decreased 2% and 8% in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The decrease in both fiscal years largely reflected lower revenues from equity products, which was related to lower agency activity with customers due, in part, to growth in other product areas, including investment banking and asset management.
Commissions.
 
    Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions. Net interest revenues increased 54% and 26% in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to increased customer account balances in the bank deposit program that was launched in November 2005. Balances in the bank deposit program rose to $13,301 million at November 30, 2006 from $1,689 million at November 30, 2005. The increase in net interest income in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to growth in customer margin balances.
Net Interest.
 
    Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management, account services and administration. The Company also receives fees for services it provides in distributing certain open-ended mutual funds and other products. Mutual fund distribution fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.
Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.
 
Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% in fiscal 2006 and 20% in fiscal 2005. In both fiscal years, the increase was driven by higher client asset balances in fee-based accounts.
 
Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 18% to $195 billion at November 30, 2006 and increased as a percentage of total client assets to 29% of total client assets from 27% in the prior year. Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 11% to $165 billion at November 30, 2005 and increased as a percentage of total client assets to 27% of total client assets from 25% in the prior year. Client asset balances increased to $676 billion at November 30, 2006 from $609 billion at November 30, 2005, primarily due to market appreciation. Client asset balances in accounts greater than $1 million increased to $442 billion at November 30, 2006 from $371 billion at November 30, 2005.
 
    Other revenues primarily include customer account service fees and other miscellaneous revenues. Other revenues decreased 7% in fiscal 2006 and increased 27% in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2006, the decrease primarily reflected lower service fees. In fiscal 2005, the increase was primarily due to higher service fees and other miscellaneous revenues.
Other.
 
    Non-interest expenses increased 13% in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2005 included a reduction in non-interest expenses related to Global Wealth Management Group's share ($198 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see "Other ItemsInsurance Settlement" herein). Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs. In addition, fiscal 2006 expenses included Global Wealth Management Group's share ($50 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees, including new hires (see "Other ItemsStock-Based Compensation" herein), while fiscal 2005 included Global Wealth Management Group's share ($48 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see "Other ItemsSenior Management Compensation Charges" herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense and the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses decreased 4%. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 5%, primarily due to a $29 million charge for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 (see "Other ItemsLease Adjustment" herein). Professional services expense increased 17%, largely due to higher sub-advisory fees associated with growth in fee-based assets and higher costs for outside legal counsel. Other expenses decreased 19%, primarily resulting from lower costs associated with legal and regulatory matters. During fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the Company recorded legal and regulatory expenses of approximately $105 million and $170 million, respectively, related to ongoing regulatory, employment and branch litigation matters.
Non-Interest Expenses.
 
Non-interest expenses increased 4% in fiscal 2005 and included Global Wealth Management Group's share ($198 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001. Excluding the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses increased 9% in fiscal 2005. Compensation and benefits expense increased 5%,
 
reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs and Global Wealth Management Group's share ($48 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes. In addition, fiscal 2004 included a reduction in compensation expense of $27 million associated with the change in the method of accounting for certain asset management and account fees (see "Other ItemsAsset Management and Account Fees" herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 3%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 11%, primarily due to a $29 million charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 for the correction in the method of accounting for certain real estate leases. Information processing and communications expense increased 9%, primarily due to higher telecommunications costs within the branch network. Professional services expense increased 31%, largely due to higher sub-advisory fees associated with growth in fee-based assets and revenues, as well as higher outside legal counsel and consulting costs. Other expenses increased 17%, primarily due to costs associated with branch closings and higher legal and regulatory costs. In fiscal 2005, the Company recorded legal and regulatory expenses of approximately $170 million, primarily related to employment matters and certain regulatory and branch litigation matters.
 
 
 
 
    Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the underwriting of unit trust products. Investment banking revenues decreased 4% in fiscal 2006 and increased 16% in fiscal 2005. The decrease in fiscal 2006 primarily reflected a lower volume of fixed income unit trust sales, partially offset by higher equity unit trust sales, which generate lower revenues in comparison with fixed income unit trust sales. The increase in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to a higher volume of unit trust sales. Unit trust sales volume increased 20% to $7.3 billion in fiscal 2006 and increased 11% to $6.1 billion in fiscal 2005.
Investment Banking.
 
    Asset Management principal transaction investment revenues consist primarily of gains and losses on investments associated with the Company's private equity activities and capital investments in certain of the Company's investment funds, primarily in alternative products.
Principal Transactions-Investments.
 
Principal transaction net investment gains aggregating $139 million were recognized in fiscal 2006 as compared with $326 million in fiscal 2005. The results in both fiscal years primarily reflected net investment gains on certain investments in the Company's private equity portfolio, including Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings, LLC. Fiscal 2005's results also included a net investment gain on Triana Energy Holdings, LLC.
 
Private equity investments generally are held for appreciation. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.
 
    Asset Management primarily generates commission revenues from dealer and distribution concessions on sales of certain funds. Commission revenues decreased 14% in fiscal 2006 and increased 7% in fiscal 2005. The decrease in fiscal 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in commissionable sales of certain fund products, while fiscal 2005 reflected an increase in such commissionable sales.
Commissions.
 
    Asset management, distribution and administration fees primarily include revenues from the management and supervision of assets, including fees for distributing certain open-ended mutual funds, shareholder servicing fees and management fees associated with the Company's private equity activities. These fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or quarterly assets for other vehicles.
Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.
 
Asset Management's period-end and average customer assets under management or supervision were as follows:
 
 
Activity in Asset Management's customer assets under management or supervision during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were as follows:
 
 
Net outflows (excluding money markets) in fiscal 2006 were primarily associated with the Company's U.S. Institutional products and Americas Retail Morgan Stanley branded products, partially offset by positive flows into Americas Intermediary products. For fiscal 2006, positive flows into institutional liquidity assets were offset by outflows from certain money market funds that were impacted by the growth of the Global Wealth Management Group's bank deposit program.
 
Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 2% in fiscal 2006 and 3% in fiscal 2005. The increase in both periods was due to higher management and administration fees, partially offset by lower distribution fees. The higher management and administration fees in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were associated with increases in average assets under management of 5% and 9%, respectively.
 
    Non-interest expenses increased 8% in fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2005 included a reduction in non-interest expenses from Asset Management's share ($43 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001 (see "Other ItemsInsurance Settlement" herein). Compensation and benefits expense increased 22% in fiscal 2006, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs as well as the impact of new hires. In addition, fiscal 2006 included Asset Management's share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees (see "Other ItemsStock-Based Compensation" herein), while fiscal 2005 included Asset Management's share ($41 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see "Other ItemsSenior Management Compensation Charges" herein). Excluding compensation and benefits expense and the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses decreased 4%. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 14%, primarily reflecting lower amortization expense associated with certain open-ended funds. The decrease in amortization expense reflected a lower level of deferred costs in recent periods due to a decrease in sales of certain open-ended funds. Marketing and business development expense increased 11%, primarily due to higher advertising and marketing costs.
Non-Interest Expenses.
 
Fiscal 2005's total non-interest expenses decreased 1%, including Asset Management's share ($43 million) of the insurance settlement related to the events of September 11, 2001. Excluding the insurance settlement, non-interest expenses increased 2%. Compensation and benefits expense increased 9%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation costs due to higher net revenues and Asset Management's share ($41 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 7%, primarily reflecting lower amortization expense associated with certain open-ended funds. The decrease in amortization expense reflected a lower level of deferred costs in recent periods due to a decrease in sales of certain open-ended funds. Marketing and business development expense increased 19%, primarily due to higher promotional costs associated with the Company's Van Kampen products. Professional services expense increased 6% due to higher sub-advisory fees, partially offset by lower legal and consulting fees. Other expenses decreased 20%, primarily due to a reduction in legal reserves resulting from the resolution of certain legal matters, partially offset by higher insurance expense.
 
 
 
 
On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved the spin-off of Discover (see "Other ItemsDiscover Spin-off" herein).
 
    Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, include revenues from fees charged to merchants on credit card sales (net of interchange fees paid to banks that issue cards on the Company's merchant and cash access network), transaction processing fees on debit card transactions as well as charges to cardmembers for late payment fees, overlimit fees, balance transfer fees, credit protection fees and cash advance fees, net of cardmember rewards. Cardmember rewards include various reward programs, including the Cashback Bonus reward program, pursuant to which the Company pays certain cardmembers a percentage of their purchase amounts based upon a cardmember's level and type of purchases.
Merchant, Cardmember and Other Fees, Net.
 
In fiscal 2006, Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, decreased 12%, primarily due to higher cardmember rewards and lower merchant discount revenues, partially offset by higher cardmember and other fees. The increase in cardmember rewards reflected record sales volume and the impact of promotional programs. The decrease in merchant discount revenues was due to higher allocations of interchange revenue to securitization transactions, partially offset by record sales volume. For securitization transactions completed on or after November 3, 2004, the Company allocated interchange revenue to new securitization transactions, which has the effect of decreasing Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, and increasing Servicing and securitization income. During fiscal 2006, the Company had a higher level of outstanding securitization transactions receiving interchange revenue allocations than in the prior year. The increase in sales volume reflected increased cardmember usage and the acquisition of Goldfish in February 2006 (see "Other ItemsBusiness and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions" herein). The increase in cardmember and other fees was primarily related to higher balance transfer fees, lower fee net charge-offs and higher credit protection fees.
 
In fiscal 2005, Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, were relatively unchanged as higher transaction processing revenues were offset by higher net cardmember rewards. The increase in transaction processing
 
revenues was related to the acquisition of PULSE on January 12, 2005 (see "Other ItemsBusiness and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions" herein). The increase in net cardmember rewards reflected record sales volume and the impact of promotional programs.
 
    Servicing and securitization income is revenue derived from consumer loans that have been sold to investors through asset securitizations. Cash flows from the interest yield and cardmember fees generated by securitized general purpose credit card loans as well as interchange fees for certain securitization transactions are used to pay investors in these loans a predetermined fixed or floating rate of return on their investment, to reimburse investors for losses of principal resulting from charged-off loans and to pay the Company a fee for servicing the loans ("servicing rights"). Any excess cash flows remaining ("excess servicing rights") are paid to the Company. The sale of general purpose credit card loans through asset securitizations, therefore, has the effect of converting portions of net credit income and fee income to servicing and securitization income.
Servicing and Securitization Income.
 
Included in Servicing and securitization income are revenues from servicing rights, excess servicing rights and gains or losses on general purpose credit card asset securitizations as well as the change in the fair value of the Company's retained interests in general purpose credit card asset securitizations.
 
The table below presents the components of Servicing and securitization income:
 
 
Servicing and securitization income is affected by the level of securitized loans, the spread between the net interest yield on the securitized loans and the yield paid to the investors, the rate of credit losses on securitized loans and the level of merchant, cardmember and other fees earned. The Other revenue component of Servicing and securitization income includes net securitization gains and losses on general purpose credit card loans and the change in the fair value of the Company's retained interests in general purpose credit card asset securitizations.
 
Servicing and securitization income increased 45% in fiscal 2006, primarily due to a lower Provision for consumer loan losses, higher Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, and higher Other revenue, partially offset by lower net interest revenues. The lower Provision for consumer loan losses was primarily attributable to a lower level of average securitized general purpose credit card loans and a lower rate of net principal charge-offs on the securitized general purpose credit card loan portfolio. The increase in Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, primarily reflected a higher level of outstanding securitization transactions that received interchange revenues. The increase in Other revenue was attributable to an increase in the fair value of the Company's retained interests in securitized receivables, primarily resulting from a continued favorable impact on charge-offs following the enactment of federal bankruptcy legislation effective in October 2005. The increase in Other revenue also reflected higher levels of general purpose credit card securitization transactions and a decrease in
 
net gain amortization related to prior securitization transactions. The decrease in net interest revenues was primarily attributable to a lower net interest spread and a lower level of average securitized general purpose credit card loans.
 
In fiscal 2005, Servicing and securitization income decreased 16%, reflecting lower net interest revenues and Other revenue, partially offset by a lower Provision for consumer loan losses and higher Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net. The decrease in net interest revenues was attributable to a lower level of average securitized general purpose credit card loans and a higher weighted average coupon rate paid to investors associated with the higher short-term interest rate environment. The interest yield was relatively unchanged from fiscal 2004 as the impact of the increase in the prime rate was offset by a decline in higher rate loans due to improved credit quality and various pricing initiatives. The decrease in Other revenue was primarily due to a lower level of securitized receivables and a decline in the fair value of the Company's retained interests in securitized receivables as a result of an increase in bankruptcy notifications and its impact on future charge-offs. The lower Provision for consumer loan losses was primarily attributable to a lower rate of net principal charge-offs related to the securitized general purpose credit card loan portfolio and a lower level of average securitized general purpose credit card loans, partially offset by an increase in bankruptcy charge-offs. The increase in Merchant, cardmember and other fees, net, reflected the allocation of interchange revenue to certain securitization transactions and lower fee net charge-offs, partially offset by lower assessed late payment and overlimit fees.
 
The net proceeds received from general purpose credit card asset securitizations were $8,738 million in fiscal 2006 and $7,240 million in fiscal 2005. The credit card asset securitization transactions completed in fiscal 2006 have expected maturities ranging from approximately three to seven years from the date of issuance.
 
    Net interest income represents the difference between interest revenue derived from consumer loans and short-term investment assets and interest expense incurred to finance those loans and assets. Assets, consisting primarily of consumer loans, currently earn interest revenue at both fixed rates and market-indexed variable rates. The Company incurs interest expense at fixed and floating rates. Interest expense also includes the effects of any interest rate contracts entered into by the Company as part of its interest rate risk management program. This program is designed to reduce the volatility of earnings resulting from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the Company's right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future.
Net Interest Income.
 
Net interest income increased 8% in fiscal 2006 due to an increase in Interest revenue, partially offset by an increase in Interest expense. The increase in Interest revenue was due to an increase in average owned general purpose credit card loans and a higher interest yield. The increase in average owned general purpose credit card loans was due to the acquisition of Goldfish, record sales volume and a lower level of average securitized general purpose credit card loans. The increase in Interest expense was primarily related to an increase in the Company's average cost of borrowings and a higher level of average interest bearing liabilities, primarily to support the increase in average owned general purpose credit card loans.
 
Net interest income increased 15% in fiscal 2005 due to an increase in Interest revenue, partially offset by an increase in Interest expense. The increase in Interest revenue was primarily due to an increase in average general purpose credit card loans, which was partly attributable to a higher level of securitization maturities and the deferment of new securitization transactions due to the exploration of the potential spin-off of Discover in fiscal 2005. The increase in Interest expense was largely due to a higher level of average interest bearing liabilities, primarily to support the increase in average general purpose credit card loans.
 
The following tables present analyses of Discover's average balance sheets and interest rates in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 and changes in net interest income during those fiscal years:
 
Average Balance Sheet Analysis.
 
 
Rate/Volume Analysis.
 
 
    The Provision for consumer loan losses is the amount necessary to establish the allowance for consumer loan losses at a level that the Company believes is adequate to absorb estimated losses in its consumer loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. The allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the owned consumer loan portfolio. The allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio. The allowance is evaluated quarterly for adequacy and is established through a charge to the Provision for consumer loan losses. In estimating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the Company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. This process starts with a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. The migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact credit losses, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties.
Provision for Consumer Loan Losses.
 
The Company's provision for consumer loan losses was $756 million, $878 million and $926 million for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. The Company's allowance for consumer loan losses was $831 million at November 30, 2006 and $838 million at November 30, 2005.
 
The provision for consumer loan losses decreased 14% in fiscal 2006. The decrease reflected lower net charge-offs and a lower net reduction of reserves as compared with the prior year. The decrease in net charge-offs primarily reflected a decline in bankruptcy filings following the federal bankruptcy legislation effective in October 2005 and improved portfolio credit quality. The net reduction in reserves in fiscal 2006 was approximately $71 million as compared with approximately $100 million in the prior year.
 
In fiscal 2005, the provision for consumer loan losses decreased 5%, primarily due to a higher net reduction of reserves and lower net charge-offs as compared with fiscal 2004 due to improvement in credit quality in the
 
Company's consumer loan portfolio, partially offset by the impact of higher bankruptcy filings in advance of the new U.S. bankruptcy legislation effective in October 2005. The net reduction in reserves in fiscal 2005 totaled approximately $100 million as compared with a net reduction of approximately $60 million in fiscal 2004.
 
    General purpose credit card loans are considered delinquent when contractual payments become 30 days past due. General purpose credit card loans generally are charged off at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180 days contractually past due, except in the case of cardmember bankruptcies, probate accounts and fraudulent transactions. Cardmember bankruptcies and probate accounts are charged off at the end of the month 60 days following the receipt of notification of the bankruptcy or death but not later than the 180-day contractual time frame. Fraudulent transactions are reported in consumer loans at their net realizable value upon receipt of notification of the fraud through a charge to operating expenses and are subsequently written off at the end of the month 90 days following notification but not later than the contractual 180-day time frame. Loan delinquencies and charge-offs are affected by changes in economic conditions, account collection management and policy changes and may vary throughout the year due to seasonal consumer spending and payment behaviors.
Delinquencies and Charge-offs
.
 
Delinquency rates in both the over 30-day and over 90-day categories and net principal charge-off rates were lower for both the owned and managed portfolios in fiscal 2006, reflecting strong portfolio credit quality and the continued favorable impact following federal bankruptcy legislation effective in fiscal 2005 (see "Managed General Purpose Credit Card Loan Data" herein). While credit costs are expected to continue to rise, the Company expects charge-off rates to remain relatively low and reach between 4.5% and 5.0% by the end of fiscal 2007.
 
In fiscal 2005, delinquency rates in both the over 30-day and over 90-day categories and net principal charge-off rates were lower for both the owned and managed portfolios, reflecting improvements in portfolio credit quality (see "Managed General Purpose Credit Card Loan Data" herein). The improvement in net principal charge-off rates was partially offset by an increase in bankruptcy charges-offs related to consumers filing for bankruptcy in advance of the new U.S. bankruptcy legislation effective in October 2005.
 
In response to industry-wide regulatory guidance, the Company has increased minimum payment requirements on certain general purpose credit card loans. Bank regulators have discretion to interpret the guidance or its application, and changes in such guidance or its application by the regulators could impact minimum payment requirements. Increases in minimum payment requirements could negatively impact future levels of general purpose credit card loans and related interest and fee revenue and charge-offs.
 
The Company's future charge-off rates and credit quality are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what has been discussed above. Factors that influence the provision for consumer loan losses include the level and direction of general purpose credit card loan delinquencies and charge-offs, changes in consumer spending and payment behaviors, bankruptcy trends, regulatory changes or new guidance, the seasoning of the Company's general purpose credit card loan portfolio, interest rate movements and their impact on consumer behavior, and the rate and magnitude of changes in the Company's general purpose credit card loan portfolio, including the overall mix of accounts, products and loan balances within the portfolio.
 
    Non-interest expenses increased 7% in fiscal 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased 7% and included Discover's share ($10 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees (see "Other ItemsStock-Based Compensation" herein) as well as an increase in salaries and wages. Fiscal 2005 included Discover's share ($29 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes (see "Other ItemsSenior Management Compensation Charges" herein). Information processing and communications expense increased 10%, primarily due to higher data and transaction processing costs related to the acquisition of Goldfish in February 2006. Marketing and business development expense increased 3% due to increased marketing costs associated with account
Non-Interest Expenses
.
 
acquisitions, the launch of the Discover Business Card and higher advertising expenses due to the branding campaign launched at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Professional services expense increased 25% due to higher legal fees and investments in infrastructure and technology.
 
Fiscal 2005's non-interest expenses increased 9% from fiscal 2004, partially resulting from the acquisition of PULSE (see "Other ItemsBusiness and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions" herein). Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, including Discover's share ($29 million) of the costs associated with senior management changes, as well as an increase in personnel costs, including salaries and benefits. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 7%. Marketing and business development expense increased 2% due to increased marketing and advertising costs. Professional services expense increased 12% due to higher consulting fees, partially related to the exploration of the potential spin-off of Discover in fiscal 2005 and an increase in legal and account collection fees. Other expenses increased 16%, primarily reflecting an increase in certain operating expenses, including accruals for losses associated with cardmember fraud and higher legal accruals.
 
    Discover's activities are affected by seasonal patterns of retail purchasing. Historically, a substantial percentage of general purpose credit card loan growth occurs in the fourth calendar quarter, followed by a flattening or decline of these loans in the following calendar quarter. Merchant fees, therefore, historically have tended to increase in the first fiscal quarter, reflecting higher sales activity in the month of December. Additionally, higher cardmember rewards incentives historically have been accrued for as a reduction of merchant and cardmember fee revenues in the first fiscal quarter, reflecting seasonal growth in retail sales volume.
Seasonal Factors
.
 
    The Company analyzes its financial performance on both a "managed" loan basis and as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") ("owned" loan basis). Managed loan data assume that the Company's securitized loan receivables have not been sold and present the results of the securitized loan receivables in the same manner as the Company's owned loans. The Company operates its Discover business and analyzes its financial performance on a managed basis. Accordingly, underwriting and servicing standards are comparable for both owned and securitized loans. The Company believes that managed loan information is useful to investors because it provides information regarding the quality of loan origination and credit performance of the entire managed portfolio and allows investors to understand the related credit risks inherent in owned loans and retained interests in securitizations. In addition, investors often request information on a managed basis, which provides a comparison with industry competitors.
Managed General Purpose Credit Card Loan Data
.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of owned and managed average loan balances, returns on receivables, interest yields and interest rate spreads for the periods indicated:
 
Reconciliation of General Purpose Credit Card Loan Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
The following tables present a reconciliation of owned and managed general purpose credit card loans and delinquency and net charge-off rates:
 
Reconciliation of General Purpose Credit Card Loan Asset Quality Data (dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Other Items.
 
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108.
 
In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") released Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements"("SAB 108"). SAB 108 permits the Company to adjust for the cumulative effect of errors relating to prior years in the carrying amount of assets and liabilities as of the beginning of the current fiscal year, with an offsetting adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. SAB 108 also requires the adjustment of any prior quarterly financial statements within the fiscal year of adoption for the effects of such errors on the quarters when the information is next presented. Such adjustments do not require previously filed reports with the SEC to be amended. Effective August 31, 2006, the Company elected early application of SAB 108. In accordance with SAB 108, the Company has adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 for the items described below. The Company considers these adjustments to be immaterial to prior annual periods.
"
 
 
    The Company adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 to reflect a change in its hedge accounting under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended ("SFAS No. 133"). The change is being made following a clarification by the SEC of its interpretation of SFAS No. 133 related to the accounting for fair value hedges of fixed-rate trust preferred securities.
Trust Preferred Securities.
 
Since January 2005, the Company entered into various interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in its trust preferred securities. The terms of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding trust preferred securities mirrored one another, and the Company determined in the past that the changes in the fair value of the swaps and hedged instruments were the same. The Company applied the commonly used "short-cut method" in accounting for these fair value hedges and, therefore, did not reflect any gains or losses during the relevant periods. Based upon the SEC's clarification of SFAS No. 133, the Company determined that since it has the ability at its election to defer interest payments on its trust preferred securities, these swaps did not qualify for the short-cut method. These swaps performed as expected as effective economic hedges of interest rate risk. The Company ended hedging of the interest rate risk on these trust preferred securities effective August 2006 and adjusted its financial results as if hedge accounting was never applied. Prospectively, the Company will manage the interest rate risk on these securities as part of its overall asset liability management.
 
    The Company also adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 for two compensation and benefits accruals. Such accruals are related to (i) the overaccrual of certain payroll taxes in certain non-U.S. locations, primarily in the U.K., which arose in fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2006 and (ii) an adjustment to the amortization expense associated with stock-based compensation awards, which arose in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004.
Compensation and Benefits.
 
    The impact of each of the items noted above on fiscal 2006 opening Shareholders' equity and Retained earnings and on Net income for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2006 is presented below (dollars in millions):
Impact of Adjustments.
 
 
The aggregate impact of these adjustments is summarized below (dollars in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
The Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R"), using the modified prospective approach as of December 1, 2004. SFAS No. 123R revised the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payment liabilities, forfeitures and modifications of stock-based awards and clarified guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to service periods. Upon adoption, the Company recognized an $80 million gain ($49 million after-tax) as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 resulting from the requirement to estimate forfeitures at the date of grant instead of recognizing them as incurred. The cumulative effect gain increased both basic and diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2005 by $0.05.
 
For stock-based awards issued prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company's accounting policy for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees was to recognize compensation cost over the service period specified in the award terms. The Company accelerates any unrecognized compensation cost for such awards if and when a retirement-eligible employee leaves the Company. For stock-based awards made to retirement-eligible employees during fiscal 2005, the Company recognized compensation expense for such awards on the date of grant.
 
For fiscal 2005 year-end stock-based compensation awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in December 2005, the Company recognized the compensation cost for such awards at the date of grant instead of over the service period specified in the award terms. As a result, the Company recorded non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $270 million in fiscal 2006 for stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees as part of the fiscal 2005 year-end award process. These incremental expenses were included within Compensation and benefits expense and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional Securities ($190 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($50 million), Asset Management ($20 million) and Discover ($10 million) business segments.
 
Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated fiscal 2006 year-end equity awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in December 2006).
 
As a result, fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2007 stock-based compensation expense will primarily include the following costs:
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 year-end awards are generally amortized over three and four years, while fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 year-end awards are generally amortized over two and three years.
 
Discontinued Operations.
 
    As described in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, on August 17, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved management's recommendation to sell the Company's non-core aircraft leasing business. In connection with this action, the aircraft leasing business was classified as "held for sale" under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144"), and reported as discontinued operations in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Aircraft Leasing.
 
On January 30, 2006, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement under which it would sell its aircraft leasing business to Terra Firma, a European private equity group, for approximately $2.5 billion in cash and the assumption of liabilities. The sale was completed on March 24, 2006. The results for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 include a loss of $125 million ($75 million after-tax) related to the impact of the finalization of the sales proceeds and balance sheet adjustments related to the closing. The results for fiscal 2005 reflected a charge of $509 million ($316 million after-tax) to reflect the write-down of the aircraft leasing business to its estimated fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 144.
 
In fiscal 2004, the Company entered into agreements for the sale of certain aircraft. Accordingly, the Company designated such aircraft as "held for sale" and recorded a $42 million pre-tax loss related to the write-down of these aircraft to fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 144. As of February 3, 2005, all of these aircraft were sold. In addition, during fiscal 2004, the Company recorded aircraft impairment charges in accordance with SFAS No. 144.
 
The table below provides information regarding the pre-tax loss on discontinued operations and the aircraft impairment charges that are included in these amounts (dollars in millions):
 
 
Fiscal 2006 reflected a net loss of $25 million on discontinued operations, which included the results of operations of the aircraft leasing business through the date of sale. Fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 reflected a net loss on discontinued operations of $302 million and $103 million, respectively.
 
    On February 28, 2007, the Company sold Quilter, which was formerly included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The results of Quilter are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented. The pre-tax gain on discontinued operations relating to Quilter in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 were $27 million, $20 million and $9 million, respectively (see Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements).
Quilter.
 
Summarized financial information for the Company's discontinued operations:
 
The table below provides information regarding the amounts included within discontinued operations (dollars in millions):
 
 
Discover Spin-off.
 
On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved the spin-off of Discover in order to enhance shareholder value. The Discover Spin-off will allow the Company to focus its efforts on more closely aligned firm-wide strategic priorities within its Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management business segments. The Discover Spin-off is subject to regulatory approval and other customary conditions, and is expected to occur in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. At the time of the Discover Spin-off, shareholders of the Company will receive shares in Discover on a tax-free basis.
 
Business and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions.
 
Subsequent to Fiscal 2006.
 
    On December 21, 2006, the Company acquired CityMortgage Bank ("CityMortgage"), a leading Moscow-based mortgage bank that specializes in originating, servicing and securitizing residential mortgage loans in the Russian Federation. The results of CityMortgage will be included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
CityMortgage Bank.
 
    On December 15, 2006, the Company acquired a 60% equity stake in Olco Petroleum Group Inc. ("Olco"), a petroleum products marketer and distributor based in eastern Canada. The results of Olco will be included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
Olco Petroleum Group Inc.
 
    On December 4, 2006, the Company acquired Saxon Capital, Inc. ("Saxon"), a servicer and originator of residential mortgages. The results of Saxon will be included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
Saxon Capital, Inc.
 
    On December 4, 2006, the Company acquired FrontPoint Partners ("FrontPoint"), a leading provider of absolute return investment strategies. The results of FrontPoint will be included within the Asset Management business segment.
FrontPoint Partners.
 
Fiscal 2006.
 
    On November 1, 2006, the Company acquired a 19% stake in Lansdowne Partners ("Lansdowne"), a London-based investment manager. The investment in Lansdowne is accounted for under the equity method of accounting within the Asset Management business segment.
Lansdowne Partners.
 
    On October 30, 2006, the Company formed a strategic alliance with Avenue Capital Group ("Avenue"), a New York-based investment manager with approximately $12 billion in assets under management. The Company acquired a minority interest in Avenue. The investment in Avenue is accounted for under the equity method of accounting within the Asset Management business segment.
Avenue Capital Group.
 
    On September 29, 2006, the Company acquired Nan Tung Bank Ltd. Zhuhai ("Nan Tung"), a bank in the People's Republic of China. Since the acquisition date, the results of Nan Tung have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
Nan Tung Bank.
 
    On September 1, 2006, the Company acquired TransMontaigne and its affiliates, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business. Since the acquisition date, the results of TransMontaigne and its affiliates have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
TransMontaigne.
 
    On September 1, 2006, the Company acquired the Heidmar Group of companies that provides international shipping and U.S. marine logistics services. Since the acquisition date, the results of the Heidmar Group of companies have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
Heidmar Group.
 
    On June 19, 2006, the Company purchased a majority interest in a joint venture that indirectly owns title to 522 Fifth Avenue, a 23-floor office building in New York City (the "Building"), for approximately $420 million. Concurrently, the Company entered into an occupancy agreement with the joint venture pursuant to which the Company will occupy the office space in the Building (approximately 580,000 square feet).
Office Building.
 
    On February 17, 2006, the Company acquired the Goldfish credit card business in the U.K. Since the acquisition date, the results of Goldfish have been included within the Discover business segment. The acquisition price was $1,676 million, which was paid in cash in February 2006.
Goldfish
.
 
Fiscal 2005.
 
    On January 12, 2005, the Company acquired PULSE, a U.S.-based automated teller machine/debit and electronic funds transfer network currently serving banks, credit unions, and savings and other financial institutions. Since the acquisition date, the results of PULSE have been included within the Discover business segment.
PULSE.
 
Fiscal 2004.
 
    On June 3, 2004, the Company acquired Barra, a global leader in delivering risk management systems and services to managers of portfolio and firm-wide investment risk. Since the acquisition date, the results of Barra have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment. In February 2005, the Company sold its 50% interest in POSIT, an equity crossing system that matches institutional buyers and sellers, to Investment Technology Group, Inc. The Company acquired the POSIT interest as part of its acquisition of Barra.
Barra.
 
Coleman Litigation.
 
On May 8, 2003, Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. ("CPH") filed a complaint against the Company in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit for Palm Beach County, Florida. The complaint relates to the 1998 merger between The Coleman Company, Inc. ("Coleman") and Sunbeam, Inc. ("Sunbeam"). The complaint, as amended, alleges that CPH was induced to agree to the transaction with Sunbeam based on certain financial misrepresentations, and it asserts claims against the Company for aiding and abetting fraud, conspiracy and punitive damages. Shortly before trial, which commenced in April 2005, the trial court granted, in part, a motion for entry of a default judgment against the Company and ordered that portions of CPH's complaint, including those setting forth CPH's primary allegations against the Company, be read to the jury and deemed established for all purposes in the action. In May 2005, the jury returned a verdict in favor of CPH and awarded CPH $604 million in compensatory damages and $850 million in punitive damages. On June 23, 2005, the trial court issued a final judgment in favor of CPH in the amount of $1,578 million, which includes prejudgment interest and excludes certain payments received by CPH in settlement of related claims against others. On June 27, 2005, the Company filed a notice of appeal with the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District of Florida (the "Court of Appeal") and posted a supersedeas bond, which automatically stayed execution of the judgment pending appeal. Included in cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements in the consolidated statement of financial condition is $1,840 million of money market deposits that have been pledged to obtain the supersedeas bond. The Company filed its initial brief in support of its appeal on December 7, 2005, and, on June 28, 2006, the Court of Appeal heard oral argument. The Company's appeal seeks to reverse the judgment of the trial court on several grounds and asks that the case be remanded for entry of a judgment in favor of the Company or, in the alternative, for a new trial.
 
The Company believes, after consultation with outside counsel, that it is probable that the compensatory and punitive damages awards will be overturned on appeal and the case remanded for a new trial. Taking into account the advice of outside counsel, the Company is maintaining a reserve of $360 million for the Coleman litigation, which it believes to be a reasonable estimate, under SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"), of the low end of the range of its probable exposure in the event the judgment is overturned and the case remanded for a new trial. If the compensatory and/or punitive awards are ultimately upheld on appeal, in whole or in part, the Company may incur an additional expense equal to the difference between the amount affirmed on appeal (and post-judgment interest thereon) and the amount of the reserve. While the Company cannot predict with certainty the amount of such additional expense, such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company and/or the Company's or Institutional Securities' operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, and the upper end of the range could exceed $1.4 billion. For further information, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
 
Insurance Settlement.
 
On September 11, 2001, the U.S. experienced terrorist attacks targeted against New York City and Washington, D.C. The attacks in New York resulted in the destruction of the World Trade Center complex, where approximately 3,700 of the Company's employees were located, and the temporary closing of the debt and equity financial markets in the U.S. Through the implementation of its business recovery plans, the Company relocated its displaced employees to other facilities.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company settled its claim with its insurance carriers related to the events of September 11, 2001. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $251 million as the insurance recovery was in
 
excess of previously recognized costs related to the terrorist attacks (primarily write-offs of leasehold improvements and destroyed technology and telecommunications equipment in the World Trade Center complex, employee relocation and certain other employee-related expenditures).
 
The pre-tax gain was recorded as a reduction to non-interest expenses and is included within the Global Wealth Management Group ($198 million), Asset Management ($43 million) and Institutional Securities ($10 million) business segments. The insurance settlement was allocated to the respective segments in accordance with the relative damages sustained by each segment.
 
Lease Adjustment.
 
Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company did not record the effects of scheduled rent increases and rent-free periods for certain real estate leases on a straight-line basis. In addition, the Company had been accounting for certain tenant improvement allowances as reductions to the related leasehold improvements instead of recording funds received as deferred rent and amortizing them as reductions to lease expense over the lease term. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company changed its method of accounting for these rent escalation clauses, rent-free periods and tenant improvement allowances to properly reflect lease expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. The impact of this correction resulted in the Company recording $109 million of additional rent expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The impact of this change was included within non-interest expenses and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional Securities ($71 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($29 million), Asset Management ($5 million) and Discover ($4 million) business segments. The impact of this correction was not material to the pre-tax income of each of the segments or to the Company.
 
Senior Management Compensation Charges.
 
Compensation and benefits expense in fiscal 2005 included charges for certain members of senior management related to severance and new hires, which increased non-interest expenses by approximately $311 million. These compensation charges were allocated to the Company's business segments as follows: Institutional Securities ($193 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($48 million), Asset Management ($41 million) and Discover ($29 million).
 
Tax Matters.
 
Income Tax Examinations.
 
The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the U.K., and states in which the Company has significant business operations, such as New York. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction; for example, the current IRS examination covers 1999-2005. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of additional assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from these and subsequent years' examinations. The Company has established tax reserves that the Company believes are adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Company adjusts tax reserves only when more information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. The Company believes that the resolution of tax matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although a resolution could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated statement of income for a particular future period and on the Company's effective income tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.
 
Fiscal 2006 included an income tax benefit of $280 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, related to the resolution of the IRS examination of years 1994-1998.
 
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
 
The American Jobs Creation Act, adopted on October 22, 2004, provided for a special one-time tax deduction, or dividend received deduction, of 85% of qualifying foreign earnings that are repatriated in either a company's last tax year that began before the enactment date or the first tax year that begins during the one-year period beginning on the enactment date. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $309 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, resulting from the Company's repatriation of approximately $4.0 billion of qualifying foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act. The $309 million tax benefit resulted from the reversal of net deferred tax liabilities previously provided under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," net of additional taxes associated with these qualifying earnings.
 
Investments in Unconsolidated Investees.
 
The Company invests in unconsolidated investees that own synthetic fuel production plants. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method of accounting. The Company's share of the operating losses generated by these investments is recorded within Losses from unconsolidated investees, and the tax credits and the tax benefits associated with these operating losses are recorded within the Provision for income taxes.
 
In fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the losses from unconsolidated investees were more than offset by the respective tax credits and tax benefits on the losses. The table below provides information regarding the losses from unconsolidated investees, tax credits and tax benefits on the losses:
 
 
Under the current tax law, synthetic fuels tax credits are granted under Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code. Synthetic fuels tax credits are available in full only when the price of oil is less than a base price specified by the tax code, as adjusted for inflation ("Base Price"). The Base Price for each calendar year is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury by April 1 of the following year. If the annual average price of a barrel of oil in 2006 or future years exceeds the applicable Base Price, the synthetic fuels tax credits generated by the Company's synthetic fuel facilities will be phased out, on a ratable basis, over the phase-out range. Synthetic fuels tax credits realized in prior years are not affected by this limitation. Due to the high level of crude oil prices in fiscal 2006 and continued uncertainty regarding the value of tax credits associated with synthetic fuel investments, all of the Company's investees idled production at their synthetic fuel production facilities during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, all of the Company's investees began production at their synthetic fuel production facilities, largely due to a decline in the level of crude oil prices in the fourth quarter as compared with the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006. Additionally, based on fiscal year to date and futures prices at November 30, 2006, the Company estimates that there will be a partial phase-out of tax credits earned in fiscal 2006. The impact of this anticipated partial phase-out is included within Losses from unconsolidated investees and the Provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006.
 
The Company has entered into derivative contracts designed to reduce its exposure to rising oil prices and the potential phase-out of the synthetic fuels tax credits. Changes in fair value relative to these derivative contracts are included within Principal transactionstrading revenues.
 
Asset Management and Account Fees.
 
Prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company was improperly recognizing certain management fees, account fees and related compensation expense paid at the beginning of the relevant contract periods, which is when such fees were billed. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company changed its method of accounting for such fees to properly recognize such fees and related expenses over the relevant contract period, generally quarterly or annually. As a result of the change, the Company's results in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 included an adjustment to reflect the cumulative impact of the deferral of certain management fees, account fees and related compensation expense paid to global representatives. The impact of this change reduced net revenues by $107 million, non-interest expenses by $27 million and income before taxes by $80 million, at both the Company and the Global Wealth Management Group business segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Such adjustment reduced fiscal 2004 net income by approximately $50 million and basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.05.
 
Pension Plans.
 
    The Company made contributions of $114 million and $272 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations and were recorded as a component of prepaid pension benefit cost in the Company's consolidated statements of financial condition.
Contributions.
 
The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company's policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations; for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). At November 30, 2006, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the Company's U.S. pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Qualified Plan"). Liabilities for benefits payable under its unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.
 
    In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company recognizes the compensation cost of employee's pension benefits (including prior service cost) over the employee's approximate service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.
Pension Expense.
 
The assumed discount rate, which reflects the rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled, is used to measure the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and to calculate the service cost and interest cost. For fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the assumed discount rate for all U.S. plans was selected by the Company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the Qualified Plan liabilities. The pension discount yield curve represents spot discount yields based on the duration implicit in a representative broad-based Aa corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. It includes only bonds of reasonable issue size and excludes certain types of bonds, such as callable bonds. As of November 30, 2006, the Qualified Plan liabilities represented 79% of the total liabilities of the Company's U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans combined. The Company, in consultation with its independent actuaries, set the assumed discount rates used for non-U.S. pension plans based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and available bond indices.
 
The expected long-term rate of return on assets represents the Company's best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and generally was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes based on the target asset allocations and taking into consideration estimated expenses and the benefits of diversification and the rebalancing of the portfolio. This rate is expected to remain the same from one year to the next, but is adjusted when there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions.
 
As of November 30, 2006, the Qualified Plan assets represented 89% of the total assets of the Company's U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans combined. To better align the duration of plan assets with the duration of plan liabilities, the Qualified Plan's target asset allocation policy was changed in September 2005 from 50%/50% equity/fixed income to 45%/55% equity/fixed income, and the duration of the fixed income portfolio was extended from 13 to 18 years. As a result, the Company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, lowered its expected long-term rate of return on its Qualified Plan assets from 7.00% to 6.75% for fiscal 2006 (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). The impact of this change was not material to the Company's consolidated results of operations in fiscal 2006. The preliminary expected long-term rate of return on Qualified Plan assets remains unchanged at 6.75% for fiscal 2007.
 
The Company's fiscal 2006 expected long-term rate of return on assets for its Qualified Plan was based on the following target asset allocation:
 
 
Each year the Company compares its initial estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on assets for the Qualified Plan (and adjusts, if necessary) with a portfolio return calculator model (the "Portfolio Model") that produces a range of expected returns for the portfolio. Return assumptions used are forward-looking gross returns that are not developed solely by an examination of historical returns. The Portfolio Model begins with the current U.S. Treasury yield curve, recognizing that expected returns on bonds are heavily influenced by the current level of yields. Corporate bond spreads and equity risk premiums, based on current market conditions, are then added to develop the return expectations for each asset class. The resulting expected portfolio investment is then adjusted downward to reflect assumed expenses, which include investment and transaction fees that typically are paid from plan assets, added to the cost basis or subtracted from sale proceeds, as well as administrative expenses paid from plan assets.
 
The Company uses the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets to compute the expected return on assets component of pension expense. For the Qualified Plan, expected returns are computed based on a market-related value of assets. The market-related value of assets is a smoothed actuarial value of assets equal to a moving average of market values in which investment income is recognized over a five-year period. The market-related value of assets must be no greater than 120% and no less than 80% of the market value of assets. Investment income equal to the expected return on the plan's assets as calculated for the prior year's expense is recognized immediately. Any difference between the actual investment income (on a market-value basis) and the expected return is recognized over a five-year period in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions."
 
Other assumptions, including mortality rates, long-term salary growth and employee turnover rates, are set by the Company in consultation with its independent actuaries. These assumptions are tested every year by monitoring gains and losses, performing assumption studies as needed, and monitoring Company objectives and actuarial trends. These assumptions are adjusted whenever necessary.
 
The Company amortizes (as a component of pension expense) unrecognized net gains and losses over the average future service of active participants (5 to 20 years depending upon the plan) to the extent that the gain/ loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. The
 
loss amortization component for the U.S. and the non-U.S. pension plans was $60 million for fiscal 2006 (33% of pension expense) and $49 million for fiscal 2005 (31% of pension expense).
 
Accounting Developments.
 
    In April 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Staff Position No. FIN 46(R)-6, "Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)" ("FSP FIN 46(R)-6"). FSP FIN 46(R)-6 requires that the determination of the variability to be considered in applying FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46R"), be based on an analysis of the design of the entity. In evaluating whether an interest with a variable interest entity creates or absorbs variability, FSP FIN 46(R)-6 focuses on the role of a contract or arrangement in the design of an entity, regardless of its legal form or accounting classification. The Company adopted the guidance in FSP FIN 46(R)-6 prospectively on September 1, 2006 to all entities that the Company first becomes involved with and to all entities previously required to be analyzed under FIN 46R when a reconsideration event has occurred under paragraph 7 of FIN 46R. The adoption of FSP FIN 46(R)-6 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Determining the Variability in Variable Interest Entities.
 
    In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF Issue No. 04-5"). Under the provisions of EITF Issue No. 04-5, a general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control that limited partnership and, therefore, should include the limited partnership in its consolidated financial statements, regardless of the amount or extent of the general partner's interest unless a majority of the limited partners can vote to dissolve or liquidate the partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without having to show cause or the limited partners have substantive participating rights that can overcome the presumption of control by the general partner. EITF Issue No. 04-5 was effective immediately for all newly formed limited partnerships and existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements have been modified. For all other existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements have not been modified, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5 on December 1, 2006. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-5 on December 1, 2006 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Limited Partnerships.
 
    In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments" ("SFAS No. 155"), which amends SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" ("SFAS No. 140"). SFAS No. 155 permits hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation to irrevocably be accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the statement of income. The fair value election may be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis. SFAS No. 155 also eliminates a restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special purpose entity may hold. The Company adopted SFAS No. 155 on December 1, 2006 and has elected to fair value only certain hybrid financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event after December 1, 2006.
Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments.
 
    In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140" ("SFAS No. 156"). SFAS No. 156 requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. The standard permits an entity to subsequently measure each class of servicing assets or servicing liabilities at fair value and report changes in fair value in the statement of income in the period in which the changes occur. The Company adopted SFAS No. 156 on December 1, 2006 and has elected to fair value certain servicing rights held as of the date of adoption. This election did not have a material impact on the Company's opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2006. The Company will also elect to fair value certain servicing rights acquired after December 1, 2006.
Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets.
 
    In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company's financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for the Company as of December 1, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting FIN 48.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.
 
    In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In addition, SFAS No. 157 disallows the use of block discounts for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market, and nullifies select guidance provided by EITF Issue No. 02-3, which prohibited the recognition of trading gains or losses at the inception of a derivative contract, unless the fair value of such derivative is obtained from a quoted market price, or other valuation technique that incorporates observable market data. SFAS No. 157 also requires the Company to consider its own credit spreads when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives. Effective December 1, 2006, the Company elected early adoption of SFAS No. 157. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 157 related to block discounts and EITF Issue No. 02-3, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $80 million after-tax as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings as of December 1, 2006, which was primarily associated with EITF Issue No. 02-3. The impact of considering the Company's own credit spreads when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives, did not have a material impact on fair value measurements at the date of adoption. With the adoption of SFAS No. 157, the Company will no longer apply the revenue recognition criteria of EITF Issue No. 02-3. The Company is currently unable to quantify the impact, if any, that this change in accounting methodology will have on its results of operations in fiscal 2007, since such impact will be dependent upon, among other things, the nature, volume and size of structured derivative transactions that the Company may enter into during fiscal 2007.
Fair Value Measurements.
 
    In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). Among other items, SFAS No. 158 requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of an entity's defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the financial statements and requires the measurement of defined benefit and postretirement plan assets and obligations as of the end of the employer's fiscal year. SFAS No. 158's requirement to recognize the funded status in the financial statements is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, and its requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The Company is currently assessing the impact that SFAS No. 158 will have on its consolidated results of operations and cash flows. However, if SFAS No. 158 were to be applied by the Company as of November 30, 2006, based on a September 30, 2006 measurement date, the effect on its consolidated statement of financial position would be an after-tax charge to Shareholders' equity of approximately $355 million.
Employee Benefit Plans.
 
Critical Accounting Policies.
 
The Company's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.
 
Financial Instruments Used For Trading and Investment.
 
Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, which include cash and derivative products, are recorded at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition, and gains and losses are reflected in Principal transactions trading and investment revenues in the consolidated statements of income. Fair value is the amount at which financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
 
The fair value of the Company's Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased are generally based on observable market prices, observable market parameters or derived from such prices or parameters based on bid prices or parameters for Financial instruments owned and ask prices or parameters for Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased. In the case of financial instruments transacted on recognized exchanges, the observable prices represent quotations for completed transactions from the exchange on which the financial instrument is principally traded. Bid prices represent the highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a financial instrument at a particular time. Ask prices represent the lowest price a seller is willing to accept for a financial instrument at a particular time.
 
A substantial percentage of the fair value of the Company's Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is based on observable market prices, observable market parameters, or is derived from such prices or parameters. The availability of observable market prices and pricing parameters can vary from product to product. Where available, observable market prices and pricing parameters in a product (or a related product) may be used to derive a price without requiring significant judgment. In certain markets, observable market prices or market parameters are not available for all products, and fair value is determined using techniques appropriate for each particular product. These techniques involve some degree of judgment.
 
The price transparency of the particular product will determine the degree of judgment involved in determining the fair value of the Company's financial instruments. Price transparency is affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether it is a new product and not yet established in the marketplace, and the characteristics particular to the transaction. Products for which actively quoted prices or pricing parameters are available or for which fair value is derived from actively quoted prices or pricing parameters will generally have a higher degree of price transparency. By contrast, products that are thinly traded or not quoted will generally have reduced to no price transparency. Even in normally active markets, the price transparency for actively quoted instruments may be reduced for periods of time during periods of market dislocation. Alternatively, in thinly quoted markets, the participation of market-makers willing to purchase and sell a product provides a source of transparency for products that otherwise are not actively quoted or during periods of market dislocation.
 
The Company's cash products include securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, other sovereign debt obligations, corporate and other debt securities, corporate equity securities, exchange traded funds and physical commodities. The fair value of these products is based principally on observable market prices or is derived using observable market parameters. These products generally do not entail a significant degree of judgment in determining fair value. Examples of products for which actively quoted prices or pricing parameters are available or for which fair value is derived from actively quoted prices or pricing parameters include securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, exchange traded corporate equity securities, most municipal debt securities, most corporate debt securities, most high-yield debt securities, physical commodities, certain tradable loan products and most mortgage-backed securities.
 
In certain circumstances, principally involving loan products and other financial instruments held for securitization transactions, the Company determines fair value from within the range of bid and ask prices such that fair value indicates the value likely to be realized in a current market transaction. Bid prices reflect the price that the Company and others pay, or stand ready to pay, to originators of such assets. Ask prices represent the prices that the Company and others require to sell such assets to the entities that acquire the financial instruments for purposes of completing the securitization transactions. Generally, the fair value of such acquired assets is based upon the bid price in the market for the instrument or similar instruments. In general, the loans and similar assets are valued at bid pricing levels until structuring of the related securitization is substantially complete and such that the value likely to be realized in a current transaction is consistent with the price that a securitization entity will pay to acquire the financial instruments. Factors affecting securitized value and investor demand relating specifically to loan products include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt service coverage ratio, investor demand and credit enhancement levels.
 
In addition, some cash products exhibit little or no price transparency, and the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Examples of cash products with little or no price transparency include certain high-yield debt, certain collateralized mortgage obligations, certain tradable loan products, distressed debt securities (i.e., securities of issuers encountering financial difficulties, including bankruptcy or insolvency) and equity securities that are not publicly traded. Generally, the fair value of these types of cash products is determined using one of several valuation techniques appropriate for the product, which can include cash flow analysis, revenue or net income analysis, default recovery analysis (i.e., analysis of the likelihood of default and the potential for recovery) and other analyses applied consistently.
 
The following table presents the valuation of the Company's cash products included within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by level of price transparency (dollars in millions):
 
 
The Company's derivative products include exchange traded and OTC derivatives. Exchange traded derivatives have valuation attributes similar to the cash products valued using observable market prices or market parameters described above. OTC derivatives, whose fair value is derived using pricing models, include a wide variety of instruments, such as interest rate swap and option contracts, foreign currency option contracts, credit and equity swap and option contracts, and commodity swap and option contracts.
 
The following table presents the fair value of the Company's exchange traded and OTC derivatives included within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased (dollars in millions):
 
 
The fair value of OTC derivative contracts is derived primarily using pricing models, which may require multiple market input parameters. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for credit quality and market liquidity. These adjustments are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable market data
 
where available. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157 on December 1, 2006, the Company followed the provisions of EITF Issue No. 02-3 (see "Other ItemsAccounting Developments" herein). Under EITF Issue No. 02-3, in the absence of observable market prices or parameters in an active market, observable prices or parameters of other comparable current market transactions, or other observable data supporting a fair value based on a pricing model at the inception of a contract, revenue recognition at the inception of an OTC derivative financial instrument is not permitted. Such revenue is recognized in income at the earlier of when there is market value observability or at the end of the contract period. In the absence of observable market prices or parameters in an active market, observable prices or parameters of other comparable current market transactions, or other observable data supporting a fair value based on a pricing model at the inception of a contract, fair value is based on the transaction price. The Company also uses pricing models to manage the risks introduced by OTC derivatives. Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simulation models or a combination thereof, applied consistently. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. Pricing models take into account the contract terms, including the maturity, as well as market parameters such as interest rates, volatility and the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
 
Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swap and option contracts. A substantial majority of OTC derivative products valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category. Other derivative products, typically the newest and most complex products, will require more judgment in the implementation of the modeling technique applied due to the complexity of the modeling assumptions and the reduced price transparency surrounding the model's market parameters. The Company manages its market exposure for OTC derivative products primarily by entering into offsetting derivative contracts or other related financial instruments. The Company's trading divisions, the Financial Control Department and the Market Risk Department continuously monitor the price changes of the OTC derivatives in relation to the offsetting positions. For a further discussion of the price transparency of the Company's OTC derivative products, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskRisk ManagementCredit Risk" in Part II, Item 7A.
 
Equity and debt investments purchased in connection with private equity and other principal investment activities initially are valued at cost to approximate fair value. The carrying value of such investments is adjusted when changes in the underlying fair values are readily ascertainable, generally as evidenced by observable market prices or transactions that directly affect the value of such investments. Downward adjustments relating to such investments are made in the event that the Company determines that the fair value is less than the carrying value. The Company's partnership interests, including general partnership and limited partnership interests in real estate funds, are included within Other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition and are recorded at fair value based upon changes in the fair value of the underlying partnership's net assets.
 
The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable market prices or market-based parameters wherever possible. In the event that market prices or parameters are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model's theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. Additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the Financial Control and Market Risk Departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model. Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ("margining") based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or
 
both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the Company's recorded fair value for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products. For more information regarding the Company's risk management practices, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskRisk Management" in Part II, Item 7A.
 
Allowance for Consumer Loan Losses.
 
The allowance for consumer loan losses in the Company's Discover business is established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. Provisions are made to reserve for estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. The allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the consumer loan portfolio. The allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio and is evaluated quarterly for adequacy.
 
In estimating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the Company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. This process starts with a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. The migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact credit losses, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. A provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level. The use of different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for consumer loan losses (see "DiscoverProvision for Consumer Loan Losses" herein).
 
Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.
 
In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.
 
The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company's business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number of these reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the Company.
 
Reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the
 
Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be.
 
The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years' examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate.
 
The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5. Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any.
 
See Notes 9 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations.
 
Special Purpose Entities.
 
The Company enters into a variety of transactions with special purpose entities ("SPE"), primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds, credit card loans and other types of financial instruments. In most cases, these SPEs are deemed to be variable interest entities ("VIE"). Unless a VIE is determined to be a qualifying special purpose entity ("QSPE"), the Company is required under accounting guidance to perform an analysis of each VIE at the date upon which the Company becomes involved with it to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE, in which case the Company must consolidate the VIE. QSPEs are not consolidated. The determination of whether an SPE meets the accounting requirements of a QSPE requires significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE are passive and nonexcessive. In addition, the analysis involved in determining whether an entity is a VIE, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, also requires significant judgment.
 
Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.
 
The Company's results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; and investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets. In addition, there continues to be a heightened level of legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the financial services industry that potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting future results of operations. Such factors also may have an impact on the Company's ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company's business, see "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources.
 
The Company's senior management establishes the overall liquidity and capital policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company's senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company's asset and liability position. These committees, along with the Company's Treasury Department and other control groups, also assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company's business activities have on its consolidated balance sheet, liquidity and capital structure, thereby helping to ensure that its business activities are integrated with the Company's liquidity and capital policies. For a description of the Company's other principal risks and how they are monitored and managed, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskRisk Management" in Part II, Item 7A.
 
The Company's liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the Company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations when they come due without material, adverse franchise or business impact. The key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the Company's business strategies while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. The principal elements of the Company's liquidity framework are the cash capital policy, the liquidity reserve and stress testing through the contingency funding plan. Comprehensive financing guidelines (collateralized funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification, staggered maturities and committed credit facilities) support the Company's target liquidity profile.
 
The Balance Sheet.
 
The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. Given the nature of the Company's market-making and customer financing activities, the size of the balance sheet fluctuates from time to time. A substantial portion of the Company's total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing and managing its business.
 
The Company's total assets increased to $1,120,645 million at November 30, 2006 from $898,523 million at November 30, 2005. The increase was primarily due to increases in financial instruments owned (largely driven by increases in corporate and other debt and corporate equities), securities borrowed, receivables from customers, and securities received as collateral. The increases were largely the result of an increase in client business opportunities.
 
Balance sheet leverage ratios are one indicator of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of a company's overall liquidity and capital policies. The Company views the adjusted leverage ratio as a more relevant measure of financial risk when comparing financial services firms and evaluating leverage trends. The Company has adopted a definition of adjusted assets that excludes certain self-funded assets considered to have minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. These low-risk assets generally are attributable to the Company's matched book and securities lending businesses. Adjusted assets are calculated by reducing gross assets by aggregate resale agreements and securities borrowed less non-derivative short positions and assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 and FIN 46R. The adjusted leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders' equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the Company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). In addition, the Company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities. These characteristics include the long-dated nature (e.g., some have final maturity at issuance of 30 years extendible at the Company's option by a further 19 years, others have a 60-year final maturity at issuance), the Company's ability to defer coupon interest for up to 20 consecutive quarters and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. The Company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities.
 
 
The following table sets forth the Company's total assets, adjusted assets and leverage ratios as of November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:
 
 
Activity in Fiscal 2006.
 
The Company's total capital consists of shareholders' equity, long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months), junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts, and Capital Units. At November 30, 2006, total capital was $162,134 million, an increase of $36,243 million from November 30, 2005.
 
During the 12 months ended November 30, 2006, the Company issued senior notes aggregating $49.5 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating $21.3 billion and $1,989 million of junior subordinated debentures. In connection with the note issuances, the Company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates ("LIBOR") trading levels. At November 30, 2006, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company's Senior Indebtedness (as defined in the Company's senior debt indentures) was approximately $158 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries). The weighted average maturity of the Company's long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.5 years at November 30, 2006. Subsequent to fiscal year-end and through January 31, 2007, the Company's long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $11 billion.
 
Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company and Morgan Stanley Finance plc, a U.K. subsidiary, announced the Company's intention to redeem all of the outstanding Capital Units on February 28, 2007.
 
In July 2006, the Company issued 44,000,000 Depositary Shares, in an aggregate of $1,100 million, representing 1/1,000th of a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value ("Series A Preferred Stock"). The Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company's option, in whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share). The Series A Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company's common stock upon liquidation.
 
Economic Capital.
 
The Company uses an economic capital model to determine the amount of equity capital needed to support the risk of its business activities and to ensure that the Company remains adequately capitalized. The Company calculates economic capital on a going-concern basis, which is defined as the amount of capital needed to run the business through the business cycle and satisfy the requirements of regulators, rating agencies and the market. Business unit economic capital allocations are evaluated by benchmarking to similarly rated peer firms by business segment. The Company believes this methodology provides an indication of the appropriate level of capital for each business segment as if each were an independent operating entity.
 
Economic capital requirements are allocated to each business segment and are sub-allocated to product lines as appropriate. This process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business, provide business managers with tools for measuring and managing risk, and allow senior management to evaluate risk-adjusted returns (such as return on economic capital and shareholder value added) to facilitate resource allocation decisions.
 
The Company's methodology is based on a going-concern approach that assigns common equity to each business unit based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses, including principal investment risk. Regulatory capital, including additional capital assigned for goodwill and intangible assets, is a minimum requirement to ensure the Company's access to funding and credibility in the market. The Company believes it must be able to sustain stress losses and maintain capital substantially above regulatory minimums while supporting ongoing business activities. The difference between the Company's consolidated book equity and aggregate common equity requirements denotes the Company's unallocated capital position, which is not currently reflected in business segment performance metrics.
 
The Company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. Stress losses are defined at the 90% to 95% confidence interval in order to capture worst potential losses in 10 to 20 years. Stress loss calculations are tangible and transparent and avoid reliance on extreme loss statistical models.
 
Market risk scenarios capture systematic, idiosyncratic and random market risk through the use of internal market stress data. Credit risk is included in the form of idiosyncratic counterparty default events. Business risk incorporates earnings volatility due to variability in revenue flows, with estimates on the mix of fixed versus variable expenses at various points in the business cycle. Operational stress losses primarily reflect legal risk across the Company.
 
The Company may enhance the economic capital model and allocation methodology over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment to ensure that the model continues to reflect the risks inherent in the Company's business activities and to reflect changes in the drivers of the level and cost of required capital.
 
The following table presents the Company's allocated average common equity ("economic capital") during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:
 
 
The increase in economic capital allocated to Institutional Securities reflects the increased risk profile that has resulted from the Company's decisions to invest in key businesses. The Company expects this growth to continue, provided market opportunities continue to warrant such investments.
 
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, economic capital will be met by regulatory Tier 1 equity (including common shareholders' equity, certain preferred stock, eligible hybrid capital instruments and deductions of goodwill and certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets), subject to regulatory limits. The Tier 1 equity components will also be reflected in the average common equity allocated to the business segments. This enhancement to the Company's equity capital model and related disclosures will be made on a prospective basis.
 
The following table presents the Company's fiscal 2006 fourth quarter average common equity as calculated under the current methodology and under the new methodology commencing in the first quarter of fiscal 2007:
 
 
The $2.5 billion of incremental unallocated capital under the pro forma new methodology is due to the inclusion of eligible hybrid capital instruments, which is partially offset by the inclusion of certain deferred tax assets. A portion of the unallocated capital existing as of November 30, 2006 has been used for the acquisitions and investments that closed subsequent to fiscal year-end (see also "Other ItemsBusiness and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions" herein). The Company currently anticipates that unallocated capital will be used for organic growth, additional acquisitions and other capital needs, including repurchases of common stock.
 
During fiscal 2007, the Company's shareholders' equity will be affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 157 and SFAS No. 158 (see "Other Items  Accounting Developments" herein).
 
    The Company's senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength and, therefore, pursues a strategy of ensuring that the Company's equity capital base adequately reflects and provides protection from the economic risks inherent in its businesses. Capital is required for, among other things, the Company's inventories, underwritings, principal investments, consumer loans, bridge loans and other financings, investments in fixed assets and for future uses. Capital for future uses will be included within unallocated capital until required by the business segments. The Company also considers return
Equity Capital Management Policies.
 
on common equity to be an important measure of its performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in which the Company is operating and its peer group's results. In this regard, the Company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries' equity.
 
At November 30, 2006, the Company's equity capital (which includes shareholders' equity and junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts) was $40,248 million, an increase of $8,302 million from November 30, 2005. The Company returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. During fiscal 2006, the Company purchased approximately $3.4 billion of its common stock (approximately 52 million shares) through open market purchases at an average cost of $65.43 (see also "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" in Part II, Item 5).
 
In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock. This share repurchase authorization replaces the Company's previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. The Company expects to exercise the authorization over the next 12-18 months at prices the Company deems appropriate, subject to its surplus capital position, market conditions and regulatory considerations.
 
The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $388.045 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.388045).
 
Liquidity Management Policies.
 
The primary goal of the Company's liquidity and funding activities is to ensure adequate financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments. Given the highly liquid nature of the Company's balance sheet, day-to-day funding requirements are largely fulfilled through the use of stable collateralized financing. The Company has centralized management of credit-sensitive unsecured funding sources in the Treasury Department. In order to meet target liquidity requirements and withstand an unforeseen contraction in credit availability, the Company has designed a liquidity management framework.
 
 
 
Contingency Funding Plan.
 
The Company's Contingency Funding Plan ("CFP") model incorporates a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks.
 
The Company's CFP is developed at the legal entity level in order to capture specific cash requirements and availability for the parent company and each of its major operating subsidiaries. The CFP assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be trapped at subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. In addition, the CFP assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities.
 
Cash Capital.
 
The Company maintains a cash capital model that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. Sources of cash capital include the parent company's equity and the non-current portion of certain long-term borrowings. Uses of cash capital include the following: (i) illiquid assets such as buildings, equipment, goodwill, net intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and principal investments; (ii) a portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit-stressed environment (i.e., stressed haircuts); and (iii) expected drawdowns on unfunded commitments.
 
The Company seeks to maintain a surplus cash capital position. The Company's equity capital of $40,248 million (including junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts), long-term borrowings (debt obligations scheduled to mature in more than 12 months) of $121,820 million and Capital Units of $66 million comprised the Company's total capital of $162,134 million as of November 30, 2006, which substantially exceeded cash capital requirements.
 
Liquidity Reserve.
 
The Company seeks to maintain a target liquidity reserve that is sized to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets, including coverage of a significant portion of expected cash outflows over a short-term horizon in a potential liquidity crisis. This liquidity reserve is held in the form of cash deposits with banks and a pool of unencumbered securities. The Company manages the pool of unencumbered securities, against which funding can be raised, on a global basis, and securities for the pool are chosen accordingly. The U.S. and non-U.S. components, held in the form of a reverse repurchase agreement at the parent company, consists of U.S. and European government bonds and other high-quality collateral and at November 30, 2006 were approximately $41 billion and averaged approximately $26 billion for the year ended November 30, 2006. The parent company cash component of the liquidity reserve at November 30, 2006 was approximately $7 billion and averaged approximately $10 billion for the year ended November 30, 2006. The Company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserve (cash and securities) is maintained enhances its ability to quickly and
 
efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. The Company's funding requirements and target liquidity reserve may vary based on changes in the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors.
 
Committed Credit Facilities.
 
The maintenance of committed credit facilities serves to further diversify the Company's funding sources. The Company values committed credit as a secondary component of its liquidity management framework. The committed credit facilities include a diversification of lenders to the Company covering geographic regions, including North America, Europe and Asia.
 
The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar tranche with the Company as borrower; a Japanese yen tranche with Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. ("MSJS") as borrower and the Company as borrower and guarantor for MSJS borrowings; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and sterling with the Company as borrower. Under this combined facility (the "Credit Facility"), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.5 billion under the U.S. dollar tranche, 80 billion Japanese yen under the Japanese yen tranche and $3.25 billion under the multicurrency tranche. At November 30, 2006, the Company had a $16.4 billion consolidated stockholders' equity surplus as compared with the Credit Facility's covenant requirement.
 
The Company anticipates that it may utilize the Credit Facility for short-term funding from time to time (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its Credit Facility will impair its ability to obtain funding under the Credit Facility, pay its current level of dividends or obtain loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. At November 30, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
 
The Company and its subsidiaries also maintain certain committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. These facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs.
 
On a yearly basis, the Company's committed credit strategy is reviewed and approved by its senior management. This strategy takes the Company's total liquidity sources into consideration when determining the appropriate size and mix of committed credit.
 
The Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains several funded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including (without limitation), the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.
 
Capital Covenant.
 
In October 2006, the Company executed a replacement capital covenant in connection with the offering by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII (the "Trust") of $1,100,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.60% Trust Preferred Securities (the "Capital Securities"). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenant, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of the holders of covered debt, as described below, that it will not, and will cause the Trust and its subsidiaries not to, redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities (or the debentures that the Company issued to the Trust that underlie the Capital Securities) on or after January 15, 2046 and prior to October 15, 2066, unless (i) the Company has obtained any then required regulatory approval and (ii) during a specified 180-day period the Company has received net proceeds from the sale of specified replacement capital securities. The initial class of covered debtholders are the holders of the junior subordinated debentures underlying the capital securities of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VI and the holders of such capital securities. For a complete description of the replacement capital securities and the other terms of the replacement capital covenant, see the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006.
 
Funding Management Policies.
 
The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources include the Company's equity capital; long-term debt; repurchase agreements; U.S., Canadian, Euro, Japanese and Australian commercial paper; asset-backed securitizations; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings; securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; promissory notes; master notes; and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. Repurchase agreement transactions, securities lending and a portion of the Company's bank borrowings are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the U.S., European and Asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.
 
The Company's bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase Federal Funds, issue short-term institutional certificates of deposits and issue bank notes. Interest bearing deposits are classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. Savings deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold nationally and savings deposits obtained from individual securities clients. Brokered deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposit issued by the Company's bank subsidiaries. Other time deposits include individual and institutional certificates of deposit.
 
The Company's funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company's operations that would result from an interruption in the availability of the Company's funding sources. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company's liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. Maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period. The Company maintains a surplus of unused short- term funding sources at all times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. In addition, the Company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. The Company also maintains committed credit facilities (described above) to support its ongoing borrowing programs.
 
    A substantial portion of the Company's total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with stable collateralized borrowings, while the securitization market allows for the securitization of the credit card receivables arising from the Company's Discover business.
Secured Financing.
 
The Company's goal is to maximize funding through less credit sensitive collateralized borrowings and asset securitizations in order to reduce reliance on unsecured financing. The Institutional Securities business emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. As part of this effort, the Institutional Securities business continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity. Similarly, Discover, through its use of the securitization market, reduces the need for other unsecured parent company financing.
 
    The Company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets. In general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. Both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the Company's Discover business) are used to finance the Company's consumer loan portfolio. Consumer loan financing is targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans financed. The Company uses
Unsecured Financing.
 
derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements).
 
The Company issues long-term debt in excess of the amount necessary to meet the needs of its securities inventory and less liquid assets as determined by its Cash Capital Policy. In addition to these needs, long-term debt funding is employed to enhance the Company's liquidity position by reducing reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company's credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.
 
The Company has a portfolio approach for managing the unsecured debt issued by the parent company. This approach gives the Company flexibility to manage the unsecured debt portfolio across maturities, currencies, investors and regions, taking into account market capacity and pricing. Down-lending to subsidiaries is managed to ensure that intercompany borrowings mature before those of the parent company. Liquidity and funding policies recognize potential constraints on the Company's ability to transfer funds between regulated entities and the parent company.
 
During fiscal 2006, the Company's long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions), a significant factor in the maintenance of strong credit ratings. As a result, for fiscal 2006, $39 billion of unsecured debt was issued (excluding certain equity-linked and credit-linked products not considered to be a component of the Company's cash capital). Financing transactions were structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and a diversified investor base was targeted through sales to domestic as well as international institutional and retail clients. Unsecured debt issuance activity resulted in a net increase in the long-term debt component of the cash capital portfolio of approximately $24 billion. During fiscal 2006, the Company also issued an aggregate of $3.1 billion of hybrid and equity capital securities in furtherance of its capital management objectives. This included $1.1 billion of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and $1.1 billion of enhanced trust preferred securities.
 
Credit Ratings.
 
The Company's reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing important. The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on the Company's short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are significant to the determination of the Company's credit ratings or that otherwise affect its ability to raise short-term and long-term financing include the Company's level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in the markets in which it operates, geographic and product diversification, retention of key personnel, risk profile, risk management policies, cash liquidity, capital structure, corporate lending credit risk, and legal and regulatory developments. In addition, continuing consolidation in the credit card industry presents Discover with stronger competitors that may challenge future growth. A deterioration in any of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the Company, thereby increasing the cost to the Company in obtaining unsecured funding. In addition, the Company's debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps.
 
In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business, the Company would be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade by either Moody's Investors Service or Standard & Poor's. At November 30, 2006, the amount of additional collateral that would be required in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the Company's senior debt credit rating was approximately $1,184 million. Of this amount, $561 million relates to bilateral
 
arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.
 
As of January 31, 2007, the Company's credit ratings were as follows:
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.
 
The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities and Discover businesses.
 
    The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the Company's Institutional Securities business were approximately $4.8 billion at November 30, 2006, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation and commercial mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company's Institutional Securities securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for information about variable interest entities and the Company's arrangements with these entities.
Institutional Securities Activities
.
 
The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements).
 
    The asset securitization market is an important source of funding for the Company's Discover business. By utilizing this market, the Company further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and reduces reliance on the Company's other funding sources, including unsecured debt. The securitization transaction structures utilized for the Discover business are accounted for as sales; i.e., off-balance sheet transactions in accordance with U.S. GAAP (see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements). In connection with its credit card securitization program, the Company transfers credit card receivables, on a revolving basis, to a trust, which issues asset-backed securities that are registered with the SEC, are used to support the issuance of publicly listed notes or are privately placed. This structure includes certain features designed to protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization of the transactions,
Discover Activities.
 
potentially resulting in the need for the Company to obtain alternative funding arrangements. The primary feature relates to the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of receivables to meet contractual requirements ("economic early amortization").
 
Economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net securitization cash flows (which would occur if the coupon, contractual servicing fee and net charge-offs exceeded the collections of finance charges and cardmember fees on securitized credit card receivables) and is driven primarily by the trust's credit card receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the asset-backed securities. In the event of an economic early amortization, receivables that otherwise would have been subsequently purchased by the trust from the Company would instead continue to be recognized on the Company's consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated in the trust would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed securities. Recognizing these receivables would require the Company to obtain alternative funding.
 
 FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45") requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. FIN 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. FIN 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity's failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.
Guarantees.
 
The table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at November 30, 2006:
 
 
See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for information on indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees, merchant chargeback guarantees and other guarantees.
 
Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments.
 
In connection with its operating activities, the Company enters into certain contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid investments.
 
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations at November 30, 2006 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company's future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of November 30, 2006 are summarized below:
 
 
The Company's commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit, other financial guarantees, investment activities, and corporate lending and financing commitments as of November 30, 2006 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with letters of credit, other financial guarantees, and lending and financing arrangements may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:
 
 
 
The table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $274 billion. Such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. These commitments, substantially all of which the Company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
At November 30, 2006, the Company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $104 billion and $76 billion, respectively.
 
Principal Investments.
 
Principal investing activities are capital investments in companies, generally for proprietary purposes, to maximize total returns to the Company. The Company has committed to increasing its principal investing activity. At November 30, 2006, the Company had aggregate principal investments with a carrying value of approximately $1.8 billion, which are included within Other assets in the consolidated statement of financial condition. The Company intends to make additional investments over time to bring the level of principal investments to approximately $2.5 billion.
 
Regulatory Requirements.
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("MS&Co.") and Morgan Stanley DW Inc. ("MSDWI") are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC, the NYSE and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited ("MSIL"), a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and MSJS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MS&Co., MSDWI, MSIL and MSJS have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).
 
In fiscal 2007, the Company intends to merge MSDWI into MS&Co. Upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, MS&Co., will be the Company's principal U.S. broker-dealer.
 
Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ("leverage ratio"), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ("Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio") and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ("total risk-weighted capital ratio"). At November 30, 2006, the leverage ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company's FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.
 
Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc., the Company's triple-A rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies.
 
Effective December 1, 2005, the Company became a consolidated supervised entity ("CSE") as defined by the SEC. As such, the Company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. As of November 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the CSE capital requirements.
 
MS&Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of November 30, 2006, MS&Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.
 
Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
 
The Company's assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Company's expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the Company's financial position and profitability.
 
A significant portion of the Company's business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company's financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.
 
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of November 30, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2006. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries as of November 30, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
As discussed in Note 2 and Note 14, in fiscal 2005, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment", and effective December 1, 2005, Morgan Stanley changed its accounting policy for recognition of equity awards granted to retirement-eligible employees.
 
Also, as discussed in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements, effective August 31, 2006, Morgan Stanley elected application of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements."
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of November 30, 2006, based on the criteria established in "Internal ControlIntegrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 12, 2007, expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
 
February 12, 2007 (April 10, 2007 as to the effects of discontinued operations discussed in Note 30)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    Introduction and Basis of Presentation.
 
    Morgan Stanley (the "Company") is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segmentsInstitutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group, Asset Management and Discover.
The Company.
 
A summary of the activities of each of the Company's business segments is as follows:
 
includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity securities and related products and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; research; and investment activities.
Institutional Securities
 
provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and insurance products; credit and other lending products; banking and cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.
Global Wealth Management Group
 
provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments and private equity to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third party retail distribution channels, intermediaries and the Company's institutional distribution channel. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.
Asset Management
 
offers Discover-branded credit cards and related consumer products and services and operates the Discover Network, a merchant and cash access network for Discover Network-branded cards, and PULSE EFT Association LP ("PULSE"), an automated teller machine/debit and electronic funds transfer network. Discover also offers consumer finance products and services in the U.K., including Morgan Stanley-branded, Goldfish-branded and various other credit cards issued on the MasterCard and Visa networks.
Discover
 
On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved the spin-off of Discover (the "Discover Spin-off"). The Discover Spin-off, which is subject to regulatory approval and other customary conditions, is expected to take place in the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
    The consolidated financial statements for the 12 months ended November 30, 2006 ("fiscal 2006"), November 30, 2005 ("fiscal 2005") and November 30, 2004 ("fiscal 2004") are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain financial instruments, consumer loan loss levels, the outcome of litigation, tax and other matters that affect the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Basis of Financial Information.
 
The Company, in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" ("SAB 108"), adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 to reflect a change in its hedge accounting for certain securities under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended ("SFAS No. 133"). The same periods also reflect the adjustments of two compensation and benefit accruals. See Note 24 for additional information on SAB 108.
 
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
 
.    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and other entities in which the Company has a controlling financial interest.
Consolidation
 
For entities where (1) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities independently, and (2) the equity holders bear the economic residual risks of the entity and have the right to make decisions about the entity's activities, the Company consolidates those entities it controls through a majority voting interest or otherwise. For entities that do not meet these criteria, commonly known as variable interest entities ("VIE"), the Company consolidates those entities where the Company absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of such entity.
 
Notwithstanding the above, certain securitization vehicles, commonly known as qualifying special purpose entities, are not consolidated by the Company if they meet certain criteria regarding the types of assets and derivatives they may hold, the types of sales they may engage in, and the range of discretion they may exercise in connection with the assets they hold.
 
For investments in entities in which the Company does not have a controlling financial interest, but has significant influence over operating and financial decisions, the Company generally applies the equity method of accounting.
 
Equity and partnership interests held by entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies are carried at fair value.
 
The Company's U.S. and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("MS&Co."), Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited ("MSIL"), Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. ("MSJS"), Morgan Stanley DW Inc. ("MSDWI"), Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc. and NOVUS Credit Services Inc. In fiscal 2007, the Company intends to merge MSDWI into MS&Co. Upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, MS&Co., will be the Company's principal U.S. broker-dealer.
 
.    The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. In connection with the delivery of the various products and services to clients, the Company manages its revenues and related expenses in the aggregate. As such, when assessing the performance of its businesses, the Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense and provision for loan losses, as one integrated activity for each of the Company's separate businesses.
Income Statement Presentation
 
The Company's cost infrastructure supporting its businesses varies by activity. In some cases, these costs are directly attributable to one line of business, and, in other cases, such costs relate to multiple businesses. As such, when assessing the performance of its businesses, the Company does not consider these costs separately, but rather assesses performance in the aggregate along with the related revenues.
 
Therefore, the Company's pricing structure considers various items, including the level of expenses incurred directly and indirectly to support the cost infrastructure, the risk it incurs in connection with a transaction, the overall client relationship and the availability in the market for the particular product and/or service. Accordingly, the Company does not manage or capture the costs associated with the products or services sold or its general and administrative costs by revenue line, in total or by product.
 
        The Company's aircraft leasing business was classified as "held for sale" prior to its sale on March 24, 2006, and associated revenues and expenses through the date of sale have been reported as discontinued operations for all years presented. Prior to being reclassified as discontinued operations, the results of the Company's aircraft leasing business were included in the Institutional Securities business segment. See Note 18 for additional information on discontinued operations.
Discontinued Operations.
  Aircraft Leasing.
 
 
 
    The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. ("Quilter") are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The results of Quilter were formerly included in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment (see Note 30).
Quilter Holdings Ltd.
 
2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
 
Revenue Recognition.
 
    Underwriting revenues and fees for mergers, acquisitions and advisory assignments are recorded when services for the transactions are determined to be completed, generally as set forth under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly associated with the transaction, are deferred and recognized in the same period as the related investment banking transaction revenue. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses associated with advisory transactions are recorded within Non-interest expenses.
Investment Banking.
 
    The Company generates commissions from executing and clearing customer transactions on stock, options and futures markets. Commission revenues are recorded in the accounts on trade date.
Commissions.
 
    Asset management, distribution and administration fees are recognized over the relevant contract period, generally quarterly or annually. In certain management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance fees when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. In such arrangements, performance fee revenue is accrued quarterly based on measuring account/fund performance to date versus the performance benchmark stated in the investment management agreement.
Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.
 
    Merchant, cardmember and other fees include revenues from fees charged to merchants on credit card sales (net of interchange fees paid to banks that issue cards on the Company's merchant and cash access network), transaction processing fees on debit card transactions as well as charges to cardmembers for late payment fees, overlimit fees, balance transfer fees, credit protection fees and cash advance fees, net of cardmember rewards. Merchant, cardmember and other fees are recognized as earned. Cardmember rewards include various reward programs, including the Cashback Bonus
Merchant, Cardmember and Other Fees, Net.
reward program, pursuant to which the Company pays certain cardmembers a percentage of their purchase amounts based upon a cardmember's level and type of purchases. The liability for cardmember rewards, included in Other liabilities and accrued expenses, is accrued at the time that qualified cardmember transactions occur and is calculated on an individual cardmember basis. In determining the liability for cardmember rewards, the Company considers estimated forfeitures based on historical account closure, charge-off and transaction activity. The Company records the cost of its cardmember reward programs as a reduction of Merchant, cardmember and other fees.
 
    Consumer loans, which consist primarily of general purpose credit card, mortgage and consumer installment loans, are reported at their principal amounts outstanding less applicable allowances. Interest on consumer loans is recorded to income as earned. Interest is generally accrued on credit card loans until the date of charge-off, which generally occurs at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180 contractually days past due, except in the case of cardmember bankruptcies, probate accounts, and fraudulent transactions. Cardmember bankruptcies and probate accounts are charged off at the end of the month 60 days following the receipt of notification of the bankruptcy or death but not later than the 180-day contractual time frame. Fraudulent transactions are reported in consumer loans at their net realizable value upon receipt of notification of the fraud through a charge to operating expenses and are subsequently written off at the end of the month 90 days following notification but not later than the contractual 180-day time frame. The interest portion of charged-off credit card loans is written off against interest revenue. Origination costs related to the issuance of credit cards are charged to earnings over periods not exceeding 12 months.
Consumer Loans.
 
 
 
The Company classifies a portion of its consumer loans as held for sale. Loans held for sale include the lesser of loans eligible for securitization or sale, or loans that management intends to securitize within three months, net of amortizing securitizations. These loans are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value.
 
    Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, which include cash and derivative products, are recorded at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition, and gains and losses are reflected net in Principal transactions trading and investment revenues in the consolidated statements of income. Loans and lending commitments are recorded at fair value or the lower of cost or market, depending on the nature of the transaction. Fair value is the amount at which financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Financial Instruments Used for Trading and Investment.
 
The fair value of the Company's Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased are generally based on observable market prices, observable market parameters or derived from such prices or parameters based on bid prices or parameters for Financial instruments owned and ask prices or parameters for Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased. In the case of financial instruments transacted on recognized exchanges, the observable prices represent quotations for completed transactions from the exchange on which the financial instrument is principally traded. Bid prices represent the highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a financial instrument at a particular time. Ask prices represent the lowest price a seller is willing to accept for a financial instrument at a particular time.
 
A substantial percentage of the fair value of the Company's Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is based on observable market prices, observable market parameters, or is derived from such prices or parameters. The availability of observable market prices and pricing parameters can vary from product to product. Where available, observable market prices and pricing parameters in a product (or a related product) may be used to derive a price without requiring significant judgment. In certain markets, observable market prices or market parameters are not available for all products, and fair value is determined using techniques appropriate for each particular product. These techniques involve some degree of judgment. The price transparency of the particular product will determine the degree of judgment involved in determining the fair value of the Company's financial instruments. Price transparency is affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether it is a new product and not yet established in the marketplace, and the characteristics particular to the transaction. Products for which actively quoted prices or pricing parameters are available or for which fair value is derived from actively quoted prices or pricing parameters will generally have a higher degree of price transparency. By contrast, products that are thinly traded or not quoted will generally have reduced to no price transparency.
 
The fair value of over-the-counter ("OTC") derivative contracts is derived primarily using pricing models, which may require multiple market input parameters. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for credit quality and market liquidity. These adjustments are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable market data where available. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"), on December 1, 2006, the Company followed the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 02-3, "Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities" ("EITF Issue No. 02-3"). See also Note 28. Under EITF Issue No. 02-3, in the absence of observable market prices or parameters in an active market, observable prices or parameters of other comparable current market transactions, or other observable data supporting a fair value based on a pricing model at the inception of a contract, revenue recognition at the inception of an OTC derivative financial instrument is not permitted. Such revenue is recognized in income at the earlier of when there is market value observability or at the end of the contract period. In the absence of observable market prices or parameters in an active market, observable prices or parameters of other comparable
 
 
 
current market transactions, or other observable data supporting a fair value based on a pricing model at the inception of a contract, fair value is based on the transaction price. The Company also uses pricing models to manage the risks introduced by OTC derivatives. Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be modeled using a series of techniques, including closed-form analytic formulae, such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simulation models or a combination thereof, applied consistently. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. Pricing models take into account the contract terms, including the maturity, as well as market parameters such as interest rates, volatility and the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
 
Purchases and sales of financial instruments and related expenses are recorded on trade date. Unrealized gains and losses arising from the Company's dealings in OTC financial instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities, are presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate.
 
The Company nets cash collateral paid or received against its derivatives inventory under credit support annexes, which the Company views as conditional contracts, pursuant to legally enforceable master netting agreements.
 
Equity and debt investments purchased in connection with private equity and other principal investment activities initially are valued at cost to approximate fair value. The carrying value of such investments is adjusted when changes in the underlying fair values are readily ascertainable, generally as evidenced by observable market prices or transactions that directly affect the value of such investments. Downward adjustments relating to such investments are made in the event that the Company determines that the fair value is less than the carrying value. The Company's partnership interests, including general partnership and limited partnership interests in real estate funds, are included within Other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition and are recorded at fair value based upon changes in the fair value of the underlying partnership's net assets.
 
.    The Company applies hedge accounting to various derivative financial instruments used to hedge interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk arising from assets, liabilities and forecasted transactions. These instruments are included within Financial instruments ownedderivative contracts or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchasedderivative contracts within the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Financial Instruments Used for Asset and Liability Management
 
These hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes as one of the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges), hedges of the variability of future cash flows from forecasted transactions and floating rate assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (cash flow hedges) and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).
 
For all hedges where hedge accounting is being applied, effectiveness testing and other procedures to ensure the ongoing validity of the hedges are performed at least monthly. The impact of hedge ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness on the consolidated statements of income was not material for all periods presented. If a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, it is thereafter accounted for as a financial instrument used for trading.
 
    The Company's designated fair value hedges consist primarily of benchmark interest rate hedges of fixed rate borrowings, including certificates of deposit and senior long-term borrowings.
Fair Value Hedges.
 
 
 
Interest rate swaps, including swaps with embedded options that mirror features contained in the hedged items, are used as hedging instruments in these programs. For these hedges, the Company ensures that the terms of the hedging instruments and hedged items match and other accounting criteria are met so that the hedges are assumed to have no ineffectiveness (i.e., the Company applies the "shortcut" method of hedge accounting).
 
The Company also uses interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the benchmark interest rate risk from host contracts of equity-linked notes that contain embedded derivatives. For these hedge relationships, regression analysis is used for the prospective and retrospective assessments of hedge effectiveness. At the inception of a hedge, the prospective analysis is based on what the hedge results would have been at regular points over an immediately preceding period. Over the life of the hedge, the length of the observation period and number of data points remain constant and the hypothetical data are replaced with actual hedge results so that the rolling analysis serves as both a prospective and retrospective test.
 
For qualifying fair value hedges of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged liability provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Interest expense. If a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, any basis adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to Interest expense over the life of the liability using the effective interest method.
 
The Company has designated a portion of the credit derivative embedded in a non-recourse structured note liability as a fair value hedge of the credit risk arising from a loan receivable to which the structured note liability is specifically linked. Regression analysis is used to perform prospective and retrospective assessments of hedge effectiveness for this hedge relationship. The changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged item provide offset of one another and, together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Principal transactionsTrading revenues.
 
    Before the sale of the aircraft leasing business (see Note 18), the Company applied hedge accounting to interest rate swaps used to hedge variable rate long-term borrowings associated with this business. Changes in the fair value of the swaps were recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Shareholders' equity, net of tax effects, and then reclassified to Interest expense as interest on the hedged borrowings was recognized.
Cash Flow Hedges.
 
In connection with the sale of the aircraft financing business (see Note 18), the Company de-designated the interest rate swaps associated with this business effective August 31, 2005 and no longer accounts for them as cash flow hedges. Amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to those interest rate swaps continue to be reclassified to Interest expense since the related borrowings remain outstanding. The Company estimates that approximately $15 million of the unrealized loss recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of November 30, 2006 will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
 
    The Company utilizes forward foreign exchange contracts and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations. No hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings since the notional amounts of the hedging instruments equal the portion of the investments being hedged, and, where forward contracts are used, the currencies being exchanged are the functional currencies of the parent and investee; where debt instruments are used as hedges, they are denominated in the functional currency of the investee. The gain or loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in foreign operations at the spot rate is deferred and reported within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Shareholders' equity, net of tax effects. The forward points on the hedging instruments are recorded in Interest and dividend revenues.
Net Investment Hedges.
 
 
 
    The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, credit card loans and other types of financial assets (see Notes 4 and 5). The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization, undivided seller's interests, accrued interest receivable subordinate to investors' interests (see Note 5), cash collateral accounts, servicing rights, rights to any excess cash flows remaining after payments to investors in the securitization trusts of their contractual rate of return and reimbursement of credit losses, and other retained interests. The exposure to credit losses from securitized loans is limited to the Company's retained contingent risk, which represents the Company's retained interest in securitized loans, including any credit enhancement provided. The gain or loss on the sale of financial assets depends, in part, on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer, and each subsequent transfer in revolving structures, allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale. To obtain fair values, observable market prices are used if available. However, observable market prices are generally not available for retained interests so the Company estimates fair value based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. The present value of future net excess cash flows that the Company estimates it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in income as the loans are securitized. An asset also is recorded and charged to income over the term of the securitized loans, with actual net excess cash flows continuing to be recognized in income as they are earned.
Securitization Activities.
 
    For purposes of these statements, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and highly liquid investments not held for resale with maturities, when purchased, of three months or less. In connection with business acquisitions, the Company assumed liabilities of $1,377 million, $58 million and $145 million in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
 
    The allowance for consumer loan losses is a significant estimate that represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the owned consumer loan portfolio. The allowance for consumer loan losses is primarily applicable to the owned homogeneous consumer credit card loan portfolio. The allowance is evaluated quarterly for adequacy and is established through a charge to the Provision for consumer loan losses.
Allowance for Consumer Loan Losses.
 
In estimating the allowance for consumer loan losses, the Company uses a systematic and consistently applied approach. This process starts with a migration analysis (a technique used to estimate the likelihood that a consumer loan will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off) of delinquent and current consumer credit card accounts in order to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for consumer loan losses. The migration analysis considers uncollectible principal, interest and fees reflected in consumer loans. In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for consumer loan losses, management also considers factors that may impact credit losses, including current economic conditions, recent trends in delinquencies and bankruptcy filings, account collection management, policy changes, account seasoning, loan volume and amounts, payment rates and forecasting uncertainties. The Provision for consumer loan losses is charged against earnings to maintain the allowance for consumer loan losses at an appropriate level.
 
    Office facilities and other equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization of buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, equipment, tugs, barges, terminals and pipelines are provided principally by the straight-line and accelerated methods over the estimated useful life of the asset. Estimates of useful lives are generally as follows: buildings39 years; furniture and fixtures7 years; computer and communications equipment3 to 5 years; terminals and pipelines3 to 25 years; and tugs and barges15 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where applicable, the remaining term of the lease, but generally not exceeding 15 years.
Office Facilities, Other Equipment and Software Costs.
 
 
 
Certain costs incurred in connection with internal-use software projects are capitalized and amortized over the expected useful life of the asset.
 
    Income tax expense is provided for using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates.
Income Taxes.
 
    Basic earnings per common share ("EPS") is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities (see Note 10).
Earnings per Common Share.
 
    The Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R"), using the modified prospective approach as of December 1, 2004. SFAS No. 123R revised the fair value-based method of accounting for share-based payment liabilities, forfeitures and modifications of stock-based awards and clarified guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to service periods. Upon adoption, the Company recognized an $80 million gain ($49 million after-tax) as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 resulting from the requirement to estimate forfeitures at the date of grant instead of recognizing them as incurred. The cumulative effect gain increased both basic and diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2005 by $0.05.
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
For stock-based awards issued prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, the Company's accounting policy for awards granted to retirement-eligible employees was to recognize compensation cost over the service period specified in the award terms. The Company accelerates any unrecognized compensation cost for such awards if and when a retirement-eligible employee leaves the Company. For stock-based awards made to retirement-eligible employees during fiscal 2005, the Company recognized compensation expense for such awards on the date of grant.
 
For fiscal 2005 year-end stock-based compensation awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in December 2005, the Company recognized the compensation cost for such awards at the date of grant instead of over the service period specified in the award terms. As a result, the Company recorded non-cash incremental compensation expenses of approximately $270 million in fiscal 2006 for stock-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees as part of the fiscal 2005 year-end award process. These incremental expenses were included within Compensation and benefits expense and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional Securities ($190 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($50 million), Asset Management ($20 million) and Discover ($10 million) business segments.
 
Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated fiscal 2006 year-end equity awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in December 2006). The Company believes that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees is preferable because it better reflects the period over which the compensation is earned.
 
If the Company had accrued the estimated cost of equity awards granted to retirement-eligible employees over the course of the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005 rather than expensing such awards at the grant date in December 2005, net income would have decreased during fiscal 2005. The approximate resulting pro forma net income would have been $4,684 million rather than the reported amount of $4,939 million. The approximate
 
 
 
resulting impact on earnings per share for fiscal 2005 would have been a reduction in the reported amounts of earnings per basic share from $4.70 to $4.46 and earnings per diluted share from $4.57 to $4.34.
 
    Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the year. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of Shareholders' equity. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in net income.
Translation of Foreign Currencies.
 
    Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized and are reviewed annually (or more frequently under certain conditions) for impairment. Other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
 
    The Company invests in unconsolidated investees that own synthetic fuel production plants. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method. The Company's share of the operating losses generated by these investments is recorded within Losses from unconsolidated investees, and the tax credits and the tax benefits associated with these operating losses are recorded within the Provision for income taxes.
Investments in Unconsolidated Investees.
 
    The Company maintains trusts, commonly referred to as rabbi trusts, in connection with certain deferred compensation plans. Assets of rabbi trusts are consolidated, and the value of the Company's stock held in rabbi trusts are classified in Shareholders' equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company has included its obligations under certain deferred compensation plans in Employee stock trust. Shares that the Company has issued to its rabbi trusts are recorded in Common stock issued to employee trust. Both Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust are components of Shareholders' equity. The Company recognizes the original amount of deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of grantsee Note 14) as the basis for recognition in Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to employees are not recognized as the Company's deferred compensation plans do not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Company's common stock.
Deferred Compensation Arrangements.
 
3.    Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets.
 
During fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the Company completed the annual goodwill impairment test (as of December 1 in each fiscal year). The Company's testing did not indicate any goodwill impairment.
 
 
 
Changes in the carrying amount of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were as follows:
 
 
Amortizable intangible assets, which are included in the Institutional Securities, Asset Management and Discover business segments, were as follows:
 
 
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets is estimated to be approximately $58 million per year over the next five fiscal years.
 
 
 
4.    Collateralized and Securitization Transactions.
 
Securities purchased under agreements to resell ("reverse repurchase agreements") and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase ("repurchase agreements"), principally government and agency securities, are carried at the amounts at which the securities subsequently will be resold or reacquired as specified in the respective agreements; such amounts include accrued interest. Reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements are presented on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. The Company's policy is to take possession of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities borrowed and Securities loaned are carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced and received in connection with the transactions. Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated variable interest entities where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and certain equity-referenced securities and loans where in all instances these liabilities are payable solely from the cash flows of the related assets accounted for as Financial instruments owned.
 
The Company pledges its financial instruments owned to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The carrying value and classification of securities owned by the Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral were as follows:
 
 
The Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions to, among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obligations, to accommodate customers' needs and to finance the Company's inventory positions. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. Under these agreements and transactions, the Company either receives or provides collateral, including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt, and corporate equities. The Company receives collateral in the form of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and derivative transactions, and customer margin loans. In many cases, the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, the fair value of securities received as collateral where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge the securities was $942 billion and $798 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $780 billion and $737 billion, respectively.
 
The Company additionally receives securities as collateral in connection with certain securities for securities transactions in which the Company is the lender. In instances where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge these securities, the Company reports the fair value of the collateral received and the related obligation to return the collateral in the consolidated statement of financial condition. At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, $64,588 million and $43,557 million, respectively, were reported as Securities received as collateral and an Obligation to return securities received as collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
 
 
 
The Company manages credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties that provide the Company, in the event of a customer default, the right to liquidate collateral and the right to offset a counterparty's rights and obligations. The Company also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the related receivable or payable, including accrued interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized. Where deemed appropriate, the Company's agreements with third parties specify its rights to request additional collateral. Customer receivables generated from margin lending activity are collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Company. For these transactions, adherence to the Company's collateral policies significantly limits the Company's credit exposure in the event of customer default. The Company may request additional margin collateral from customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary, may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold, but not delivered from customers.
 
In connection with its Institutional Securities business, the Company engages in securitization activities related to residential and commercial mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, and other types of financial assets. These assets are carried at fair value, and any changes in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Company may act as underwriter of the beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles. Underwriting net revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the Institutional Securities business were approximately $4.8 billion at November 30, 2006, the majority of which were related to residential mortgage loan, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation and commercial mortgage loan securitization transactions. Net gains at the time of securitization were not material in fiscal 2006. The assumptions that the Company used to determine the fair value of its retained interests at the time of securitization related to those transactions that occurred during fiscal 2006 were not materially different from the assumptions included in the table below. Additionally, as indicated in the table below, the Company's exposure to credit losses related to these retained interests was not material to the Company's results of operations.
 
The following table presents information on the Company's residential mortgage loan, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation and commercial mortgage loan securitization transactions. Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of the retained interests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions at November 30, 2006 were as follows (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
 
The table above does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge risks inherent in its retained interests. In addition, the sensitivity analysis is hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in an assumption generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the retained interests is calculated independent of changes in any other assumption; in practice, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. In addition, the sensitivity analysis does not consider any corrective action that the Company may take to mitigate the impact of any adverse changes in the key assumptions.
 
In connection with its Institutional Securities business, during fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the Company received proceeds from new securitization transactions of $68 billion, $65 billion and $72 billion, respectively, and cash flows from retained interests in securitization transactions of $6.0 billion, $7.1 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively.
 
5.    Consumer Loans.
 
Consumer loans were as follows:
 
 
Activity in the allowance for consumer loan losses was as follows:
 
 
 
 
Information on net charge-offs of interest and cardmember fees was as follows:
 
 
At November 30, 2006, the Company had commitments to extend credit for consumer loans of approximately $274 billion. Such commitments arise primarily from agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided that there are no violations of conditions established in the related agreements. These commitments, substantially all of which the Company can terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness.
 
At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, $5,570 million and $4,960 million, respectively, of the Company's consumer loans had minimum contractual maturities of less than one year. Because of the uncertainty regarding consumer loan repayment patterns, which historically have been higher than contractually required minimum payments, this amount may not necessarily be indicative of the Company's actual consumer loan repayments.
 
The Company received net proceeds from consumer loan sales of $11,532 million, $10,525 million and $7,590 million in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.
 
At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, $2.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, of the Company's consumer loans were classified as held for sale.
 
The Company's U.S. consumer loan portfolio, including securitized loans, is geographically diverse, with a distribution approximating that of the population of the U.S.
 
    The Company's retained interests in credit card asset securitizations include undivided seller's interests, accrued interest receivable on securitized credit card receivables, cash collateral accounts, servicing rights, rights to any excess cash flows ("Residual Interests") remaining after payments to investors in the securitization trusts of their contractual rate of return and reimbursement of credit losses, and other retained interests. The undivided seller's interests less an applicable allowance for loan losses is recorded in Consumer loans. The Company's undivided seller's interests rank with investors' interests in the securitization trusts, and the remaining retained interests are subordinate to investors' interests. Accrued interest receivable and certain other subordinated retained interests are recorded in Other assets at amounts that approximate fair value. The Company receives annual servicing fees of 2% of the investor principal balance outstanding. The Company does not recognize servicing assets or servicing liabilities for servicing rights as the servicing contracts provide just adequate compensation, as defined in SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" ("SFAS No. 140"), to the Company for performing the servicing. Residual Interests and cash collateral accounts are recorded in Other assets and reflected at fair value with changes in fair value recorded currently in earnings. At November 30, 2006, the Company had $12,661 million of retained interests, including $9,370 million of undivided seller's interests, in
Credit Card Securitization Activities.
pari passu
 
 
 
credit card asset securitizations. The retained interests are subject to credit, payment and interest rate risks on the transferred credit card assets. The investors and the securitization trusts have no recourse to the Company's other assets for failure of cardmembers to pay when due.
 
During fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, the Company completed credit card asset securitizations of $8.7 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively, and recognized net securitization gains of $159 million and net securitization losses of $78 million, respectively, as servicing and securitization income in the consolidated statements of income. The amount for fiscal 2006 includes an increase in the fair value of the Company's retained interests in securitized credit card receivables primarily resulting from a favorable impact on charge-offs following the enactment of federal bankruptcy legislation effective in October 2005. The uncollected balances of securitized general purpose credit card loans were $26.7 billion and $24.4 billion at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, respectively.
 
Key economic assumptions used in measuring the Residual Interests at the date of securitization resulting from credit card asset securitizations completed during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were as follows:
 
 
Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of the Residual Interests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions were as follows (dollars in millions):
 
 
The sensitivity analysis in the table above is hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in an assumption generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the Residual Interests is calculated independent of changes in any other assumption; in practice, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower payments and increased credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. In addition, the sensitivity analysis does not consider any corrective action that the Company may take to mitigate the impact of any adverse changes in the key assumptions.
 
 
 
The table below summarizes certain cash flows received from the securitization master trusts (dollars in billions):
 
 
The table below presents quantitative information about delinquencies, net principal credit losses and components of managed general purpose credit card loans, including securitized loans (dollars in millions):
 
 
6.    Deposits.
 
Deposits were as follows:
 
 
The weighted average interest rates of interest-bearing deposits outstanding during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were 4.4% and 4.1%, respectively. The increase in deposits in fiscal 2006 primarily reflected growth in the Company's bank deposit program.
 
At November 30, 2006, interest-bearing deposits maturing over the next five years were as follows:
 
 
 
 
7.    Short-Term Borrowings.
 
The table below summarizes certain information regarding short-term borrowings for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 (dollars in millions):
 
 
The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar tranche with the Company as borrower; a Japanese yen tranche with MSJS as borrower and the Company as borrower and guarantor for MSJS borrowings; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and sterling with the Company as borrower. Under this combined facility (the "Credit Facility"), the banks are committed to provide up to $7.5 billion under the U.S. dollar tranche, 80 billion Japanese yen under the Japanese yen tranche and $3.25 billion under the multicurrency tranche. At November 30, 2006, the Company had a $16.4 billion consolidated stockholders' equity surplus as compared with the Credit Facility's covenant requirement.
 
The Company anticipates that it may utilize the Credit Facility for short-term funding from time to time. The Company does not believe that any of the covenant requirements in its Credit Facility will impair its ability to obtain funding under the Credit Facility, pay its current level of dividends or obtain loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial guarantees or other financial accommodations. At November 30, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
 
The Company and its subsidiaries also maintain certain committed bilateral credit facilities to support general liquidity needs. These facilities are expected to be drawn from time to time to cover short-term funding needs.
 
The Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains several funded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including (without limitation) the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.
 
 
 
8.    Long-Term Borrowings.
 
    Long-term borrowings at fiscal year-end consisted of the following:
Maturities and Terms.
 
 
The Company's long-term borrowings included the following components:
 
 
Senior debt securities often are denominated in various non-U.S. dollar currencies and may be structured to provide a return that is equity-linked, credit-linked or linked to some other index (e.g., the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to be callable by the Company or extendible at the option of holders of the senior debt securities. Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to put or extend the notes aggregated $16,016 million at November 30, 2006 and $16,018 million at November 30, 2005. Subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures typically are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Company or its regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.
 
    The Company's index/equity-linked borrowings include various structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance of a specific index (e.g., Standard & Poor's 500), a basket of stocks, a specific equity security, a credit exposure or basket of credit exposures. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in the underlying equity, credit, or other position or index, the Company has entered into various swap contracts and purchased options that effectively convert the
Senior DebtStructured Borrowings.
 
 
 
borrowing costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR. These instruments are included in the preceding table at their redemption values based on the performance of the underlying indices, baskets of stocks, or specific equity securities, credit or other position or index. The Company accounts for its structured borrowings as having embedded derivatives. The embedded derivatives are bifurcated from the hybrid notes and are accounted for at fair value, with the changes in fair value reported in Principal transactions trading revenues. The swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features are derivatives and also are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reported in Principal transactions trading revenues.
 
    Included in the Company's long-term borrowings are subordinated notes (including the notes issued by MS&Co. discussed below) of $3,881 million having a contractual weighted average coupon of 4.77% at November 30, 2006 and $4,007 million having a weighted average coupon of 4.86% at November 30, 2005. Junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company were $4,884 million at November 30, 2006 and $2,764 million at November 30, 2005 having a contractual weighted average coupon of 6.51% at November 30, 2006 and 6.45% at November 30, 2005. Maturities of the subordinated and junior subordinated notes range from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2033. Maturities of certain junior subordinated debentures can be extended to 2066 at the Company's option.
Subordinated Debt and Junior Subordinated Debentures
.
 
At November 30, 2006, MS&Co. had outstanding a $25 million 7.82% fixed rate subordinated Series F note. The note matures in fiscal 2016. The terms of the note contain restrictive covenants that require, among other things, MS&Co. to maintain specified levels of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth and Net Capital, each as defined. As of November 30, 2006, MS&Co. was in compliance with these restrictive covenants.
 
    In general, securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets are financed with fixed rate long-term debt. Both fixed rate long-term debt and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of funds accessed directly by the Company's Discover business segment) are used to finance the Company's consumer loan portfolio. The Company uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the duration, holding period and interest rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate risk. These swaps effectively convert certain of the Company's fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has entered into currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations. The Company's use of swaps for asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate as follows:
Asset and Liability Management.
 
 
Cash paid for interest for the Company's borrowings and deposits approximated the related interest expense in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004.
 
Subsequent to fiscal year-end and through January 31, 2007, the Company's long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $11 billion.
 
 
 
9.    Commitments and Contingencies.
 
    The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering office space and equipment. At November 30, 2006, future minimum rental commitments under such leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows (dollars in millions):
Office Facilities.
 
 
Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental income, was $486 million, $590 million and $439 million in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. The net rent expense for fiscal 2005 included $109 million related to the lease adjustment charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 (see Note 26).
 
    In connection with its commodities business, the Company enters into operating leases for both crude oil and refined products storage and for vessel charters. These operating leases are integral parts of the Company's commodities risk management business. At November 30, 2006, future minimum rental commitments under such leases were as follows (dollars in millions):
Equipment.
 
 
    At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, the Company had approximately $5.8 billion and $6.9 billion, respectively, of letters of credit and other financial guarantees outstanding to satisfy various collateral requirements.
Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees.
 
    In connection with certain of its Institutional Securities business activities, the Company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade. These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated or traded by the Company.
Securities Activities.
 
 
The aggregate value of the investment grade and non-investment grade primary and secondary lending commitments are shown below:
 
 
Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased include obligations of the Company to deliver specified financial instruments at contracted prices, thereby creating commitments to purchase the financial instruments in the market at prevailing prices. Consequently, the Company's ultimate obligation to satisfy the sale of financial instruments sold, not yet purchased may exceed the amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
 
The Company has commitments to fund other less liquid investments, including at November 30, 2006, $1,279 million in connection with investment activities, $15,888 million related to secured lending transactions and $5,062 million related to forward purchase contracts involving mortgage loans. Additionally, the Company has provided and will continue to provide financing, including margin lending and other extensions of credit, to clients that may subject the Company to increased credit and liquidity risks.
 
At November 30, 2006, the Company had commitments to enter into reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements of approximately $104 billion and $76 billion, respectively.
 
    In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.
Legal.
 
The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company's business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number of these reviews, investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including the Company.
 
The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, and except for the pending matter described in the paragraphs below, the Company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of the pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition
 
 
 
of the Company, although the outcome of such matters could be material to the Company's operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, depending on, among other things, the level of the Company's revenues or income for such period. Legal reserves have been established in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"). Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.
 
    On May 8, 2003, Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. ("CPH") filed a complaint against the Company in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit for Palm Beach County, Florida. The complaint relates to the 1998 merger between The Coleman Company, Inc. ("Coleman") and Sunbeam, Inc. ("Sunbeam"). The complaint, as amended, alleges that CPH was induced to agree to the transaction with Sunbeam based on certain financial misrepresentations, and it asserts claims against the Company for aiding and abetting fraud, conspiracy and punitive damages. Shortly before trial, which commenced in April 2005, the trial court granted, in part, a motion for entry of a default judgment against the Company and ordered that portions of CPH's complaint, including those setting forth CPH's primary allegations against the Company, be read to the jury and deemed established for all purposes in the action. In May 2005, the jury returned a verdict in favor of CPH and awarded CPH $604 million in compensatory damages and $850 million in punitive damages. On June 23, 2005, the trial court issued a final judgment in favor of CPH in the amount of $1,578 million, which includes prejudgment interest and excludes certain payments received by CPH in settlement of related claims against others.
Coleman Litigation.
 
On June 27, 2005, the Company filed a notice of appeal with the District Court of Appeal for the Fourth District of Florida (the "Court of Appeal") and posted a supersedeas bond, which automatically stayed execution of the judgment pending appeal. Included in cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements in the consolidated statement of financial condition is $1,840 million of money market deposits that have been pledged to obtain the supersedeas bond. The Company filed its initial brief in support of its appeal on December 7, 2005, and, on June 28, 2006, the Court of Appeal heard oral argument. The Company's appeal seeks to reverse the judgment of the trial court on several grounds and asks that the case be remanded for entry of a judgment in favor of the Company or, in the alternative, for a new trial.
 
The Company believes, after consultation with outside counsel, that it is probable that the compensatory and punitive damages awards will be overturned on appeal and the case remanded for a new trial. Taking into account the advice of outside counsel, the Company is maintaining a reserve of $360 million for the Coleman litigation, which it believes to be a reasonable estimate, under SFAS No. 5, of the low end of the range of its probable exposure in the event the judgment is overturned and the case remanded for a new trial. If the compensatory and/or punitive awards are ultimately upheld on appeal, in whole or in part, the Company may incur an additional expense equal to the difference between the amount affirmed on appeal (and post-judgment interest thereon) and the amount of the reserve. While the Company cannot predict with certainty the amount of such additional expense, such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company and/or the Company's or Institutional Securities' operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, and the upper end of the range could exceed $1.4 billion.
 
    For information on contingencies associated with income tax examinations, see Note 16.
Income Taxes.
 
 
 
10.    Earnings per Common Share.
 
Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS (in millions, except for per share data):
 
 
The following securities were considered antidilutive and therefore were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS:
 
 
 
 
11.    Sales and Trading Activities.
 
The Company's institutional sales and trading activities are conducted through the integrated management of its client-driven and proprietary transactions along with the hedging and financing of these positions. Sales and trading activities include revenues from customer purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company's positions. The Company also engages in proprietary trading activities for its own account.
 
The Company's trading portfolios are managed with a view toward the risk and profitability of the portfolios. The following discussions of risk management, market risk, credit risk, concentration risk and customer activities relate to the Company's sales and trading activities.
 
    The cornerstone of the Company's risk management philosophy is protection of the Company's franchise, reputation and financial standing. The Company's risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. Given the importance of effective risk management to the Company's reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters.
Risk Management.
 
Risk management at the Company requires independent Company-level oversight, accountability of the Company's business segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. The Company's senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the Company and business segment level. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the Company's risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification.
 
The nature of the Company's risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the Company's risk governance structure. The Company's risk governance structure includes the Firm Risk Committee and the Capital Structure and Strategic Transactions Committee, the Chief Risk Officer, the Internal Audit Department, independent control groups, and various risk control managers, committees and groups located within the business segments.
 
The Firm Risk Committee, composed of the Company's most senior officers, oversees the Company's risk management structure. The Firm Risk Committee's responsibilities include oversight of the Company's risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of material financial, operational and franchise risks. The Firm Risk Committee is overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Audit Committee"). The Capital Structure and Strategic Transactions Committee (the "Capital Committee") reviews strategic transactions for the Company and significant changes to the Company's capital structure. The Capital Committee's responsibilities include reviewing measures of capital and evaluating capital resources relative to the Company's risk profile and strategy.
 
The Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm Risk Committee, oversees compliance with Company risk limits; approves certain excessions of Company risk limits; reviews material market and credit risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Audit Committee.
 
The Internal Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Legal Officer. The Internal Audit Department periodically examines the Company's operational and control environment and conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories.
 
 
 
The Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Financial Control, Treasury, and Legal and Compliance Departments (collectively, the "Company Control Groups"), which are all independent of the Company's business units, assist senior management and the Firm Risk Committee in monitoring and controlling the Company's risk through a number of control processes. The Company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the Company's risk management and monitoring systems and processes.
 
Each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for ensuring that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk framework established by the Firm Risk Committee; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls.
 
Each of the Company's business segments also has designated operations officers, committees and groups, including operations and information technology groups (collectively, "Segment Control Groups" and, together with the Company Control Groups, the "Control Groups") to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. The Control Groups work together to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment's market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer loans and reserve adequacy, reputation, legal enforceability, and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Control Groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review.
 
    Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio.
Market Risk.
 
The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management.
 
The Market Risk Department independently reviews the Company's trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing Value-at-Risk and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. The Company's trading businesses and the Market Risk Department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. Stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Market Risk Department. The Market Risk Department also conducts scenario analyses, which estimate the Company's revenue sensitivity to a set of specific, predefined market and geopolitical events.
 
    Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor is unable to meet its financial obligations. The Company incurs significant, "single name" credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business. This type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis.
Credit Risk.
 
 
 
The Institutional Credit Department ("Institutional Credit") manages credit risk exposure for the Institutional Securities business. Institutional Credit is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management.
 
    The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving developing countries, or issuers engaged in a particular industry. Financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S. government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign governments (principally Japan, United Kingdom, Italy and Germany), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 6% of the Company's total assets at November 30, 2006. In addition, substantially all of the collateral held by the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented approximately 25% of the Company's total assets at November 30, 2006, consist of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal agencies or other sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the Company, including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments made in connection with its private equity, principal investment and lending activities, often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade issuers. In addition, the Company may originate or purchase certain residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as compared with more traditional types of mortgages. Such terms and features may include loans made to borrowers subject to payment increases or loans with high loan-to-value ratios. The Company seeks to limit concentration risk through the use of the systems and procedures described in the preceding discussions of risk management, market risk and credit risk.
Concentration Risk.
 
    The Company's customer activities involve the execution, settlement and financing of various securities and commodities transactions on behalf of customers. Customer securities activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. Customer commodities activities, which include the execution of customer transactions in commodity futures transactions (including options on futures), are transacted on a margin basis.
Customer Activities.
 
The Company's customer activities may expose it to off-balance sheet credit risk. The Company may have to purchase or sell financial instruments at prevailing market prices in the event of the failure of a customer to settle a trade on its original terms or in the event cash and securities in customer margin accounts are not sufficient to fully cover customer losses. The Company seeks to control the risks associated with customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance with various regulations and Company policies.
 
    The amounts in the following table represent unrealized gains and losses on exchange traded and OTC options and other contracts (including interest rate, foreign exchange, and other forward contracts and swaps) for derivatives for trading and investment purposes and for asset and liability management, net of offsetting positions in situations where netting is appropriate. The asset amounts are not reported net of non-cash collateral, which the Company obtains with respect to certain of these transactions to reduce its exposure to credit losses.
Derivative Contracts.
 
Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company's exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. The Company monitors the creditworthiness of counterparties to these transactions on an ongoing basis and requests additional collateral when deemed necessary.
 
 
 
The Company's derivatives (both listed and OTC) at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product:
 
 
12.    Capital Units.
 
The Company has Capital Units outstanding that were issued by the Company and Morgan Stanley Finance plc ("MSF"), a U.K. subsidiary. A Capital Unit consists of (a) a Subordinated Debenture of MSF guaranteed by the Company and maturing in 2017 and (b) a related Purchase Contract issued by the Company, which may be accelerated by the Company, requiring the holder to purchase one Depositary Share representing shares of the Company's Cumulative Preferred Stock. The aggregate amount of Capital Units outstanding was $66 million at both November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005. Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company and MSF announced the Company's intention to redeem all of the outstanding Capital Units on February 28, 2007.
 
13.    Shareholders' Equity.
 
    Changes in shares of common stock outstanding for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 were as follows (share data in millions):
Common Stock.
 
 
    During fiscal 2006, the Company purchased $3.4 billion of its common stock through open market purchases at an average cost of $65.43 per share. During fiscal 2005, the Company purchased $3.7 billion of its common stock through a combination of open market purchases and purchases from employees at an average cost of $54.31 per share. In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock. This share repurchase authorization replaces the Company's previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. The Company expects to exercise the authorization over the next 12-18 months at prices the Company deems appropriate, subject to its surplus capital position, market conditions and regulatory considerations.
Treasury Shares.
 
 
 
    The Company has established rabbi trusts (the "Trusts") to provide common stock voting rights to certain employees who hold outstanding restricted stock units. The number of shares of common stock outstanding in the Trusts was 81 million at November 30, 2006 and 60 million at November 30, 2005. The assets of the Trusts are consolidated with those of the Company, and the value of the Company's stock held in the Trusts is classified in Shareholders' equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.
Rabbi Trusts.
 
In July 2006, the Company issued 44,000,000 Depositary Shares, in an aggregate of $1,100 million, representing 1/1,000th of a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value ("Series A Preferred Stock"). The Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company's option in whole or in part on or after July 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share). The Series A Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company's common stock upon liquidation. Subsequent to fiscal year-end, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $388.045 per share of Series A Preferred Stock that was paid on January 16, 2007 to preferred shareholders of record on January 1, 2007.
Preferred Stock
.    
 
    MS&Co. and MSDWI are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS&Co. and MSDWI have consistently operated in excess of these requirements. MS&Co.'s net capital totaled $4,498 million at November 30, 2006, which exceeded the amount required by $3,168 million. MSDWI's net capital totaled $1,251 million at November 30, 2006, which exceeded the amount required by $1,180 million. MSIL, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and MSJS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MSIL and MSJS have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.
Regulatory Requirements.
 
In fiscal 2007, the Company intends to merge MSDWI into MS&Co. Upon completion of the merger, the surviving entity, MS&Co., will be the Company's principal U.S. broker-dealer.
 
Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to average assets ("leverage ratio"), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ("Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio") and (c) 8% of total capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ("total risk-weighted capital ratio"). At November 30, 2006, the leverage ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company's FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.
 
Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements. Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc., the Company's triple-A rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating agencies.
 
Effective December 1, 2005, the Company became a consolidated supervised entity ("CSE") as defined by the SEC. As such, the Company is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital requirements on a consolidated basis. As of November 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the CSE capital requirements.
 
MS&Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS&Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of November 30, 2006, MS&Co. had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and the notification requirements.
 
 
 
The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may restrict the Company's ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. At November 30, 2006, approximately $14.0 billion of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances to the Company.
 
    Cumulative translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Company uses foreign currency contracts and designates certain non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of the Company's net foreign investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are taxable currently. The Company attempts to protect its net book value from the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries by selling the appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward market. However, under some circumstances, the Company may elect not to hedge its net monetary investments in certain foreign operations due to market conditions, including the availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information relating to the hedging of the Company's net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries and their effects on cumulative translation adjustments is summarized below:
Cumulative Translation Adjustments.
 
 
14.    Employee Compensation Plans.
 
As of December 1, 2004, the Company early adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method (see Note 2). SFAS No. 123R requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of units granted and the grant date fair value of the Company's common stock. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
 
 
 
The components of the Company's stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations and a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in fiscal 2005 associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123R) are presented below:
 
 
The tax benefit for stock-based compensation expense related to deferred stock and stock options was $748 million, $260 million and $250 million for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.
 
At November 30, 2006, the Company had approximately $1,188 million of compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards not yet recognized (excluding fiscal 2006 year-end awards granted in December 2006 to non-retirement-eligible employees, which will begin to be amortized in fiscal 2007). The unrecognized compensation cost as of November 30, 2006 will primarily be recognized in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008.
 
In connection with awards under its equity-based compensation and benefit plans, the Company is authorized to issue shares of its common stock held in treasury or newly issued shares. At November 30, 2006, approximately 107 million shares were available for future grant under these plans.
 
    The Company has made deferred stock awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees' discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of restricted common stock or in the right to receive unrestricted shares of common stock in the future ("restricted stock units"). Awards under these plans are generally subject to vesting over time and to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment until the end of a specified period, generally five years from date of grant. All or a portion of an award may be canceled if employment is terminated before the end of the relevant vesting period. All or a portion of a vested award also may be canceled in certain limited situations, including termination for cause during the relevant restriction period.
Deferred Stock Awards.
 
The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company's vested and unvested restricted stock units (share data in millions):
 
 
The weighted average price of restricted stock units at the beginning and end of fiscal 2006 was $51.47 and $53.57, respectively. During fiscal 2006, the weighted average price for granted, converted and canceled
 
 
 
restricted stock units was $57.86, $56.41 and $54.10, respectively. The weighted average price for restricted stock units granted during fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $53.10 and $54.69, respectively.
 
The total fair value of restricted stock units converted to common stock during fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $768 million, $986 million and $791 million, respectively.
 
The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company's unvested restricted stock units (share data in millions):
 
 
    The Company has made stock option awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees' discretionary compensation with awards made in the form of stock options generally having an exercise price not less than the fair value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Such stock option awards generally become exercisable over a one- to five-year period and expire 10 years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon termination of employment. Stock option awards have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are similar to those in deferred stock awards.
Stock Option Awards.
 
The weighted average fair values of options granted during fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 were $14.15, $12.77 and $16.67, respectively, utilizing the following weighted average assumptions:
 
 
The Company's expected option life has been determined based upon historical experience, and the expected stock price volatility has been determined based upon historical stock price data over a similar time period of the expected option life.
 
 
 
The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company's stock options (share data in millions):
 
 
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $326 million, $722 million and $766 million, respectively.
 
As of November 30, 2006, the intrinsic value of in-the-money exercisable stock options was $2,292 million.
 
The following table presents information relating to the Company's stock options outstanding at November 30, 2006 (number of options outstanding data in millions):
 
 
    The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") allows employees to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at a 15% discount from market value. The Company expenses the 15% discount associated with the ESPP.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
 
    Eligible U.S. employees receive 401(k) matching contributions which are invested in the Company's common stock. The Company also provides discretionary profit sharing to certain employees. The pre-tax expense associated with the 401(k) match and profit sharing for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $132 million, $132 million and $118 million, respectively.
Morgan Stanley 401(k) and Profit Sharing Awards.
 
 
 
15.    Employee Benefit Plans.
 
The Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its U.S. and non-U.S. employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees. The Company also provides certain other postemployment benefits other than pension and postretirement benefits to certain former employees or inactive employees prior to retirement. The following summarizes these plans:
 
    Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company and its U.S. affiliates are covered by a non-contributory pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Qualified Plan"). Unfunded supplementary plans (the "Supplemental Plans") cover certain executives. In addition, certain of the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries have pension plans covering substantially all of their employees. These pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each employee's years of credited service and on compensation levels specified in the plans. The Company's policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations. Liabilities for benefits payable under its Supplemental Plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.
 
The Company also has unfunded postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees and their dependents.
 
The Company uses a measurement date of September 30 to calculate obligations under its pension and postretirement plans.
 
The following tables present information for the Company's pension and postretirement plans on an aggregate basis:
 
Net Periodic Benefit Expense.
 
Net periodic benefit expense included the following components:
 
 
 
 
Benefit Obligations and Funded Status.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 as well as a summary of the funded status at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005:
 
 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $2,385 million and $2,351 million at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
The following table contains information for pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets as of fiscal year-end:
 
 
The following table contains information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets as of fiscal year-end:
 
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," the Company has recognized an additional minimum pension liability of $13 million at November 30, 2006 and $18 million at November 30, 2005 for defined benefit pension plans whose accumulated benefit obligations exceeded plan assets. An intangible asset of $1 million was recognized as of November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, which represented the unrecognized prior-service cost for such plans. The remaining balance of $12 million ($7 million, net of income taxes) in fiscal 2006 and $17 million ($5 million, net of income taxes) in fiscal 2005 was recorded as a reduction of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of Shareholders' equity.
 
Assumptions.
 
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at fiscal year-end:
 
 
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004:
 
 
The expected long-term rate of return on assets represents the Company's best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets and generally was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based on the target asset allocations. For plans where there is no established target asset allocation, actual asset allocations were used. The expected long-term return on assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same from one year to the next, but is adjusted when there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions.
 
 
 
The following table presents assumed health care cost trend rates used to determine the postretirement benefit obligations at fiscal year-end:
 
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Company's postretirement benefit plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
 
Qualified Plan Assets.
 
The Qualified Plan assets represent 89% of the Company's total pension plan assets. The weighted average asset allocations for the Qualified Plan at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 and the targeted asset allocation for fiscal 2007 by asset class were as follows:
 
 
.    The Company, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the asset allocation targets for its Qualified Plan based on its assessment of business and financial conditions, demographic and actuarial data, funding characteristics and related risk factors. Other relevant factors, including industry practices, long-term historical and prospective capital market returns, were considered as well.
Qualified Pension Plan Asset Allocation
 
The Qualified Plan return objectives provide long-term measures for monitoring the investment performance against growth in the pension obligations. The overall allocation is expected to help protect the plan's funded status while generating sufficiently stable real returns (net of inflation) to help cover current and future benefit payments. Total Qualified Plan portfolio performance is assessed by comparing actual returns with relevant benchmarks, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, the Russell 2000 Index, the MSCI EAFE Index and, in the case of the fixed income portfolio, the Qualified Plan's liability profile.
 
Both the equity and fixed income portions of the asset allocation use a combination of active and passive investment strategies and different investment styles. The fixed income asset allocation consists of longer-
 
 
 
duration fixed income securities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better correlate assets with obligations. The longer-duration fixed income allocation is expected to help stabilize plan contributions over the long run.
 
The asset mix of the Company's Qualified Plan is reviewed by the Morgan Stanley Retirement Plan Investment Committee on a regular basis. When asset class exposure reaches a minimum or maximum level, an asset allocation review process is initiated, and the portfolio is automatically rebalanced back to target allocation levels unless the Investment Committee determines otherwise.
 
The Investment Committee has determined to allocate no more than 10% of the Qualified Plan assets to "alternative" asset classes that provide attractive diversification benefits, absolute return enhancement and/or other potential benefit to the plan. Allocations to alternative asset classes will be made based upon an evaluation of particular attributes and relevant considerations of each asset class.
 
Derivative instruments are permitted in the Qualified Plan's portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all of its policy guidelines and are consistent with its risk and return objectives. In addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a respective derivative product. This includes percentage allocations and credit quality. The purpose of the use of derivatives is to enhance investment in the underlying assets, not to circumvent portfolio restrictions.
 
Cash Flows.
 
The Company expects to contribute approximately $140 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans (U.S. and non-U.S.) in fiscal 2007 based upon their current funded status and expected asset return assumptions for fiscal 2007, as applicable.
 
Expected benefit payments associated with the Company's pension and postretirement benefit plans for the next five fiscal years and in aggregate for the five fiscal years thereafter are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Defined Contribution Pension Plans.
 
The Company maintains separate defined contribution pension plans that cover substantially all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits are determined by the purchasing power of the accumulated value of contributions paid. In fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the Company's expense related to these plans was $91 million, $73 million and $58 million, respectively.
 
    Postemployment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation, severance benefits, disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance coverage provided to former employees or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. The postemployment benefit obligations were not material as of November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005.
Postemployment Benefits.
 
16.    Income Taxes.
 
The provision for income taxes from continuing operations consisted of:
 
 
The following table reconciles the provision for income taxes to the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate:
 
 
As of November 30, 2006, the Company had approximately $4.4 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no provisions have been recorded for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Except to the extent such earnings can be repatriated tax efficiently, they are permanently invested abroad. It is not practicable to determine the amount of income taxes payable in the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.
 
 
 
The American Jobs Creation Act, adopted on October 22, 2004, provided for a special one-time tax deduction, or dividend received deduction, of 85% of qualifying foreign earnings that are repatriated in either a company's last tax year that began before the enactment date or the first tax year that begins during the one-year period beginning on the enactment date. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $309 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, resulting from the Company's repatriation of approximately $4.0 billion of qualifying foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act. The $309 million tax benefit resulted from the reversal of net deferred tax liabilities previously provided under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," net of additional taxes associated with these qualifying earnings.
 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 were as follows:
 
 
Cash paid for income taxes was $3,115 million, $1,536 million and $818 million in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively.
 
The Company recorded income tax benefits of $72 million, $317 million and $331 million related to employee stock compensation transactions in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. Such benefits were credited to Paid-in capital.
 
    The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the U.K., and states in which the Company has significant business operations, such as New York. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction; for example, the current IRS examination covers 1999-2005. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of additional assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from these and subsequent years' examinations. The Company has established tax reserves that the Company believes are adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the Company adjusts tax reserves only when more information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. The Company believes that the resolution of tax matters will not have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition of the
Income Tax Examinations.
 
 
 
Company, although a resolution could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated statement of income for a particular future period and on the Company's effective income tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.
 
The effective income tax rate in fiscal 2006 included an income tax benefit of $280 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, related to the resolution of the IRS examination of years 1994-1998.
 
17.    Segment and Geographic Information.
 
The Company structures its segments primarily based upon the nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and the Company's management organization. The Company provides a wide range of financial products and services to its customers in each of its business segments: Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group, Asset Management and Discover. For further discussion of the Company's business segments, see Note 1.
 
Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are included in determining their operating results. Other revenues and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based upon the Company's allocation methodologies, generally based on each segment's respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.
 
As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company's consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations primarily represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by Asset Management to the Global Wealth Management Group associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group's global representatives.
 
Selected financial information for the Company's segments is presented below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company's non-U.S. business activities are principally conducted through European and Asian locations. The following table presents selected income statement information and the total assets of the Company's operations by geographic area. The principal methodologies used in preparing the geographic area data are as follows: commission revenues are recorded based on the location of the sales force; trading revenues are principally recorded based on location of the trader; investment banking revenues are based on location of the client; and asset management and portfolio service fees are recorded based on the location of the portfolio manager.
 
 
 
18.    Discontinued Operations.
 
Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005.
 
On August 17, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved management's recommendation to sell the Company's non-core aircraft leasing business. In connection with this action, the aircraft leasing business was classified as "held for sale" and reported as discontinued operations in the Company's consolidated financial statements. In addition, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $1.7 billion ($1.0 billion after-tax) to reflect the write-down of the aircraft leasing business to its estimated fair value of approximately $2.0 billion. In determining the charge that was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company estimated the value to be realized in selling the aircraft leasing business as a whole. The estimated value of the business was based on the appraised values of the aircraft portfolio, an evaluation of then current market conditions, recent transactions involving the sales of similar aircraft leasing businesses, a detailed assessment of the portfolio and additional valuation analyses.
 
On January 30, 2006, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement under which it would sell its aircraft leasing business to Terra Firma, a European private equity group, for approximately $2.5 billion in cash and the assumption of liabilities. Based on the terms of the agreement and in accordance with SFAS No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144"), the Company revised its estimate of the fair value (less selling costs) of the aircraft leasing business and, as a result, in the fourth quarter reduced the pre-tax charge recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 by approximately $1.1 billion. Full year results for fiscal 2005 reflected a charge of $509 million ($316 million after-tax).
 
The sale was completed on March 24, 2006. The results for discontinued operations in the quarter ended February 28, 2006 included a loss of $125 million ($75 million after-tax) related to the impact of the finalization of the sales proceeds and balance sheet adjustments related to the closing.
 
Fiscal 2004.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company entered into agreements for the sale of certain aircraft. Accordingly, the Company designated such aircraft as "held for sale" and recorded a $42 million pre-tax loss related to the write-down of these aircraft to fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 144. As of February 3, 2005, all of these aircraft were sold.
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the Company's aircraft were reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying value of an aircraft may not have been recoverable. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company evaluated various financing strategies for its aircraft financing business. As part of that evaluation and to determine the potential debt ratings associated with the financing strategies, the Company commissioned appraisals of the aircraft portfolio from three independent aircraft appraisal firms. The appraisals indicated a decrease in the aircraft portfolio average market value of 12% from the appraisals obtained at the date of the prior impairment charge (May 31, 2003). In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the Company considered the decline in appraisal values a significant decrease in the market price of its aircraft portfolio and thus a trigger event to test for impairment in the carrying value of its aircraft.
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the Company tested each of its aircraft for impairment by comparing each aircraft's projected undiscounted cash flows with its respective carrying value. For those aircraft for which impairment was indicated (because the projected undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying value), the Company adjusted the carrying value of each aircraft to its fair value if lower than the carrying value. To determine each aircraft's fair value, the Company used the market value appraisals provided by three independent appraisers. As a result of this review, the Company recorded a non-cash pre-tax asset impairment charge of $109 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 based on the average of the market value appraisals provided by the independent appraisers.
 
 
 
Summarized financial information for the Company's discontinued operations:
 
The table below provides information regarding amounts included within discontinued operations (dollars in millions):
 
 
Fiscal 2006 reflected a net loss of $25 million on discontinued operations, which included the results of operations of the aircraft leasing business through the date of sale. Fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 reflected a net loss on discontinued operations of $302 million and $103 million, respectively.
 
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities of the Company's aircraft leasing business as of November 30, 2005 (dollars in millions):
 
 
See Note 30 for further information on discontinued operations.
 
19.    Variable Interest Entities.
 
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 46, as revised ("FIN 46R"), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," applies to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties ("variable interest entities"). Variable interest entities are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if they do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity's expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests. The Company is involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be VIEs and may hold interests therein, including debt securities, interest-only strip investments and derivative instruments that may be considered variable interests. Transactions associated with these entities include asset- and mortgage-backed securitizations and structured financings (including collateralized debt, bond or loan obligations and credit-linked notes). The Company engages in these transactions principally to facilitate client needs and as a means of selling financial assets. The Company consolidates entities in which it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. For those entities deemed to be qualifying special purpose entities (as defined in SFAS No. 140), which includes the credit card asset securitization master trusts (see Note 5), the Company does not consolidate the entity.
 
The Company purchases and sells interests in entities that may be deemed to be VIEs in the ordinary course of its business. As a result of these activities, it is possible that such entities may be consolidated and deconsolidated at various points in time. Therefore, the Company's variable interests described below may not be held by the Company at the end of future quarterly reporting periods.
 
 
 
At November 30, 2006, in connection with its Institutional Securities business, the aggregate size of VIEs, including financial asset-backed securitization, mortgage-backed securitization, collateralized debt obligation, credit-linked note, structured note, municipal bond trust, loan issuing, commodities monetization, equity-linked note, equity fund and exchangeable trust entities, for which the Company was the primary beneficiary of the entities was approximately $20.4 billion, which is the carrying amount of the consolidated assets recorded as Financial instruments owned that are collateral for the entities' obligations. The nature and purpose of these entities that the Company consolidated were to issue a series of notes to investors that provides the investors a return based on the holdings of the entities. These transactions were executed to facilitate client investment objectives. The structured note, equity-linked note, equity fund, certain credit-linked note, certain collateralized debt obligation, certain mortgage-backed securitization, certain financial asset-backed securitization and municipal bond transactions also were executed as a means of selling financial assets. The Company consolidates those entities where it holds either the entire class or a majority of the class of subordinated notes or entered into a derivative instrument with the VIE, which bears the majority of the expected losses or receives a majority of the expected residual returns of the entities. The Company accounts for the assets held by the entities as Financial instruments owned and the liabilities of the entities as Other secured financings. For those liabilities that include an embedded derivative, the Company has bifurcated such derivative in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The beneficial interests of these consolidated entities are payable solely from the cash flows of the assets held by the VIE.
 
At November 30, 2006, also in connection with its Institutional Securities business, the aggregate size of the entities for which the Company holds significant variable interests, which consist of subordinated and other classes of beneficial interests, derivative instruments, limited partnership investments and secondary guarantees, was approximately $34.7 billion. The Company's variable interests associated with these entities, primarily credit-linked note, structured note, loan and bond issuing, collateralized debt, loan and bond obligation, financial asset-backed securitization, mortgage-backed securitization and tax credit limited liability entities, including investments in affordable housing tax credit funds and underlying synthetic fuel production plants, were approximately $19.0 billion consisting primarily of senior beneficial interests, which represent the Company's maximum exposure to loss at November 30, 2006. The Company may hedge the risks inherent in its variable interest holdings, thereby reducing its exposure to loss. The Company's maximum exposure to loss does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company utilizes to hedge these risks.
 
20.    Guarantees.
 
The Company has certain obligations under certain guarantee arrangements, including contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, security or commodity price, an index or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity's failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The Company's use of guarantees is disclosed below by type of guarantee:
 
    Certain derivative contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee, including certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps. Although the Company's derivative arrangements do not specifically identify whether the derivative counterparty retains the underlying asset, liability or equity security, the Company has disclosed information regarding all derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee. The maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and written foreign currency options, cannot be estimated, as
Derivative Contracts.
 
 
 
increases in interest or foreign exchange rates in the future could possibly be unlimited. Therefore, in order to provide information regarding the maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under certain derivative contracts, the notional amount of the contracts has been disclosed.
 
The Company records all derivative contracts at fair value. For this reason, the Company does not monitor its risk exposure to such derivative contracts based on derivative notional amounts; rather, the Company manages its risk exposure on a fair value basis. Aggregate market risk limits have been established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company also manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, including, but not limited to, entering into offsetting economic hedge positions. The Company believes that the notional amounts of the derivative contracts generally overstate its exposure.
 
    In connection with its corporate lending business and other corporate activities, the Company provides standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements represent obligations to make payments to third parties if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a borrowing arrangement or other contractual obligation.
Financial Guarantees to Third Parties.
 
    Market value guarantees are issued to guarantee return of principal invested to fund investors associated with certain European equity funds and to guarantee timely payment of a specified return to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. The guarantees associated with certain European equity funds are designed to provide for any shortfall between the market value of the underlying fund assets and invested principal and a stipulated return amount. The guarantees provided to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds are designed to return an investor's contribution to a fund and the investor's share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by a fund.
Market Value Guarantees.
 
    The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with special purpose entities and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the special purpose entities in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities.
Liquidity Guarantees.
 
The table below summarizes certain information regarding these guarantees at November 30, 2006:
 
 
    In the normal course of its business, the Company provides standard indemnities to counterparties for certain contingent exposures and taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The
Indemnities.
 
 
 
maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.
 
    The Company is a member of various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Associated with its membership, the Company may be required to pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member who may default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. While the rules governing different exchange or clearinghouse memberships vary, in general the Company's guarantee obligations would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its resources. In addition, any such guarantee obligation would be apportioned among the other non-defaulting members of the exchange or clearinghouse. Any potential contingent liability under these membership agreements cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these agreements and believes that any potential requirement to make payments under these agreements is remote.
Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees.
 
    As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these provisions at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005 was $320 million and $349 million, respectively. As of November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, the Company's accrued liability for distributions that the Company has determined is probable it will be required to refund based on the applicable refund criteria specified in the various partnership agreements was $25 million and $36 million, respectively.
General Partner Guarantees.
 
    As part of the Company's Institutional Securities and Discover securitization activities, the Company provides representations and warranties that certain securitized assets conform to specified guidelines. The Company may be required to repurchase such assets or indemnify the purchaser against losses if the assets do not meet certain conforming guidelines. Due diligence is performed by the Company to ensure that asset guideline qualifications are met, and, to the extent the Company has acquired such assets to be securitized from other parties, the Company seeks to obtain its own representations and warranties regarding the assets. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make would be equal to the current outstanding balances of all assets subject to such securitization activities. Also, in connection with originations of residential mortgage loans under the Company's FlexSource program, the Company may permit borrowers to pledge marketable securities as collateral instead of requiring cash down payments for the purchase of the underlying residential property. Upon sale of the residential mortgage loans, the Company may provide a surety bond that reimburses the purchasers for shortfalls in the borrowers' securities accounts up to certain limits if the collateral maintained in the securities accounts (along with the associated real estate collateral) is insufficient to cover losses that purchasers experience as a result of defaults by borrowers on the underlying residential mortgage loans. The Company requires the borrowers to meet daily collateral calls to ensure the marketable securities pledged in lieu of a cash down payment are sufficient. At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, the maximum potential amount of future payments the Company may be required to make under its surety bond was $121 million and $157 million, respectively. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these representations and warranties and reimbursement agreements and believes that the probability of any payments under these arrangements is remote.
Securitized Asset Guarantees.
 
    In connection with its Discover business, the Company issues credit cards in the U.S. and U.K. and owns and operates the Discover Network in the U.S. The Company is contingently
Merchant Chargeback Guarantees.
 
 
 
liable for certain transactions processed on the Discover Network in the event of a dispute between the cardmember and a merchant. The contingent liability arises if the disputed transaction involves a merchant or merchant acquirer with whom the Discover Network has a direct relationship. If a dispute is resolved in the cardmember's favor, the Discover Network will credit or refund the disputed amount to the Discover Network card issuer, who in turn credits its cardmember's account. Discover Network will then charge back the transaction to the merchant or merchant acquirer. If the Discover Network is unable to collect the amount from the merchant or merchant acquirer, it will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the cardmember. In most instances, a payment requirement by the Discover Network is unlikely to arise because most products or services are delivered when purchased, and credits are issued by the merchant acquirer or merchant on returned items in a timely fashion. However, where the product or service is not provided until some later date following the purchase, the likelihood of payment by the Discover Network increases. Similarly, the Company is also contingently liable for the resolution of cardmember disputes associated with its general purpose credit cards issued by its U.K. chartered bank on the MasterCard and Visa networks. The maximum potential amount of future payments related to these contingent liabilities is estimated to be the total Discover Network sales transaction volume processed to date as well as the total U.K. cardmember sales transaction volume billed to date that could qualify as a valid disputed transaction under the Company's merchant processing network, issuer and cardmember agreements; however, the Company believes that this amount is not representative of the Company's actual potential loss exposure based on the Company's historical experience. The actual amount of the potential exposure cannot be quantified as the Company cannot determine whether the current or cumulative transaction volumes may include or result in disputed transactions.
 
The table below summarizes certain information regarding merchant chargeback guarantees during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005:
 
 
The amount of the liability related to the Company's cardmember merchant guarantee was not material at November 30, 2006. The Company mitigates this risk by withholding settlement from merchants or obtaining escrow deposits from certain merchants that are considered higher risk due to various factors such as time delays in the delivery of products or services. The table below provides information regarding the settlement withholdings and escrow deposits:
 
 
    The Company may, from time to time, in its role as investment banking advisor be required to provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the regulating authorities, the Company provides a guarantee that the acquirer in the merger and acquisition transaction has or will have sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the event the acquirer's funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction. These arrangements generally cover the time frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and therefore are generally short term in nature. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make cannot be estimated. The Company believes the likelihood of any payment by the Company under these arrangements is remote given the level of the Company's due diligence associated with its role as investment banking advisor.
Other.
 
 
 
21.    Fair Value of Financial Instruments.
 
The majority of the Company's assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value or at amounts that approximate fair value. Such assets and liabilities include: cash and cash equivalents, cash and securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, customer and broker receivables and payables, certain other assets, commercial paper, and other short-term borrowings and payables.
 
The fair value of certain of the Company's other assets and liabilities is presented below.
 
    The Company's financial instruments used for trading and investment and for asset and liability management are recorded at fair value as discussed in Note 2.
Financial Instruments Owned and Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased.
 
    The fair value of consumer loans is determined by discounting cash flows using current market rates of loans having similar characteristics. The cash flow calculation methodologies, which vary by product, include adjustments for credit risk and prepayment rates commensurate with recent and projected trends. At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, the carrying value of the Company's consumer loans was approximately $0.1 billion less than their estimated fair value.
Consumer Loans.
 
    Securities purchased under agreements to resell, Securities borrowed, Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned are recorded at their original contract amount plus accrued interest. As the majority of such activities are short term in nature, the carrying value of these instruments approximates fair value.
Collateralized Transaction Activities.
 
    The estimated fair value of the Company's deposits, using current rates for deposits with similar remaining maturities, approximated carrying value at November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005.
Deposits.
 
    The Company's long-term borrowings are recorded at historical amounts unless designated as a hedged item in a fair value hedge under SFAS No. 133. The fair value of the Company's long-term borrowings was estimated using either quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analyses based on the Company's current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. At November 30, 2006 and November 30, 2005, the carrying value of the Company's long-term borrowings was approximately $1.8 billion and approximately $0.9 billion, respectively, less than fair value.
Long-Term Borrowings.
 
22.    Investments in Unconsolidated Investees.
 
The Company invests in unconsolidated investees that own synthetic fuel production plants. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method of accounting. The Company's share of the operating losses generated by these investments is recorded within Losses from unconsolidated investees, and the tax credits and the tax benefits associated with these operating losses are recorded within the Provision for income taxes.
 
In fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, the losses from unconsolidated investees were more than offset by the respective tax credits and tax benefits on the losses. The table below provides information regarding the losses from unconsolidated investees, tax credits and tax benefits on the losses:
 
 
 
 
Under the current tax law, synthetic fuels tax credits are granted under Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code. Synthetic fuels tax credits are available in full only when the price of oil is less than a base price specified by the tax code, as adjusted for inflation ("Base Price"). The Base Price for each calendar year is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury by April 1 of the following year. If the annual average price of a barrel of oil in 2006 or future years exceeds the applicable Base Price, the synthetic fuels tax credits generated by the Company's synthetic fuel facilities will be phased out, on a ratable basis, over the phase-out range. Synthetic fuels tax credits realized in prior years are not affected by this limitation. Due to the high level of crude oil prices in fiscal 2006 and continued uncertainty regarding the value of tax credits associated with synthetic fuel investments, all of the Company's investees idled production at their synthetic fuel production facilities during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, all of the Company's investees began production at their synthetic fuel production facilities, largely due to a decline in the level of crude oil prices in the fourth quarter as compared with the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006. Additionally, based on fiscal year to date and futures prices at November 30, 2006, the Company estimates that there will be a partial phase-out of tax credits earned in fiscal 2006. The impact of this anticipated partial phase-out is included within Losses from unconsolidated investees and the Provision for income taxes for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006.
 
The Company has entered into derivative contracts designed to reduce its exposure to rising oil prices and the potential phase-out of the synthetic fuels tax credits. Changes in fair value relative to these derivative contracts are included within Principal transactionstrading revenues.
 
23.    Business and Other Acquisitions and Dispositions.
 
Subsequent to Fiscal 2006.
 
    On December 21, 2006, the Company acquired CityMortgage Bank ("CityMortgage"), a leading Moscow-based mortgage bank that specializes in originating, servicing and securitizing residential mortgage loans in the Russian Federation. The results of CityMortgage will be included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
CityMortgage Bank.
 
.    On December 15, 2006, the Company acquired a 60% equity stake in Olco Petroleum Group Inc. ("Olco"), a petroleum products marketer and distributor based in eastern Canada. The results of Olco will be included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
Olco Petroleum Group Inc
 
On December 4, 2006, the Company acquired Saxon Capital, Inc. ("Saxon"), a servicer and originator of residential mortgages. The results of Saxon will be included within the Institutional Securities business segment.
Saxon Capital, Inc.
    
 
    On December 4, 2006, the Company acquired FrontPoint Partners ("FrontPoint"), a leading provider of absolute return investment strategies. The results of FrontPoint will be included within the Asset Management business segment.
FrontPoint Partners.
 
Fiscal 2006.
 
    On February 17, 2006, the Company acquired the Goldfish credit card business in the U.K. The acquisition has added economies of scale through better utilization of the existing U.K. infrastructure and strengthened the Company's position in the U.K. credit card market. Since the acquisition date, the results of Goldfish have been included within the Discover business segment. The acquisition price was $1,676 million, which was paid in cash in February 2006. The Company recorded goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $370 million in connection with the acquisition.
Goldfish
.
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition:
 
 
The $123 million of acquired amortizable intangible assets includes customer relationships of $54 million (15-year estimated useful life) and trademarks of $69 million (25-year estimated useful life).
 
    On November 1, 2006, the Company acquired a 19% stake in Lansdowne Partners ("Lansdowne"), a London-based investment manager. The investment in Lansdowne is accounted for under the equity method of accounting within the Asset Management business segment.
Lansdowne Partners.
 
    On October 30, 2006, the Company formed a strategic alliance with Avenue Capital Group ("Avenue"), a New York-based investment manager with approximately $12 billion in assets under management. The Company acquired a minority interest in Avenue. The investment in Avenue is accounted for under the equity method of accounting within the Asset Management business segment.
Avenue Capital Group.
 
    On September 29, 2006, the Company acquired Nan Tung Bank Ltd. Zhuhai ("Nan Tung"), a bank in the People's Republic of China. The acquisition will enable the Company to strengthen its platform in China. Since the acquisition date, the results of Nan Tung have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to further adjustment as the valuation of certain intangible assets is still in process.
Nan Tung Bank.
 
    On September 1, 2006, the Company acquired TransMontaigne Inc. and its affiliates ("TransMontaigne"), a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business. The acquisition will enable the Company to expand its supply and distribution of oil and refined oil products across a broader range of clients and regions across the U.S., as well as increase its oil storage capacity across the U.S. Since the acquisition date, the results of TransMontaigne and its affiliates have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and is subject to further adjustment as the valuation of certain intangible assets is still in process.
TransMontaigne Inc.
 
    On September 1, 2006, the Company acquired the Heidmar Group of companies that provides international shipping and U.S. marine logistics services. The acquisition will enable the Company to expand its physical freight business across multiple vessel classes and geographies and provides an opportunity to expand into international shipping and services. Since the acquisition date, the results of the Heidmar Group of companies have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to further adjustment as the valuation of certain intangible assets is still in process.
Heidmar Group.
 
    On June 19, 2006, the Company purchased a majority interest in a joint venture that indirectly owns title to 522 Fifth Avenue, a 23-floor office building in New York City (the "Building"), for approximately
Office Building.
 
 
 
$420 million. Concurrently, the Company entered into an occupancy agreement with the joint venture pursuant to which the Company will occupy the office space in the Building (approximately 580,000 square feet).
 
The pro forma impact of each of the above business acquisitions individually and in the aggregate was not material to the consolidated financial statements.
 
Fiscal 2005.
 
    On January 12, 2005, the Company acquired PULSE, a U.S.-based automated teller machine/debit and electronic funds transfer network currently serving banks, credit unions, and savings and other financial institutions. Since the acquisition date, the results of PULSE have been included within the Discover business segment. The acquisition price was approximately $324 million, which was paid in cash during fiscal 2005. The Company recorded goodwill and other intangible assets of $329 million in connection with the acquisition.
PULSE.
 
Fiscal 2004.
 
    On June 3, 2004, the Company acquired Barra, Inc. ("Barra"), a global leader in delivering risk management systems and services to managers of portfolio and firm-wide investment risk. Since the acquisition date, the results of Barra have been included within the Institutional Securities business segment. The acquisition price was $41.00 per share in cash, or an aggregate consideration of approximately $800 million. The Company recorded goodwill and other intangible assets totaling $663 million in connection with the acquisition. In February 2005, the Company sold its 50% interest in POSIT, an equity crossing system that matches institutional buyers and sellers, to Investment Technology Group, Inc. The Company acquired the POSIT interest as part of its acquisition of Barra. As a result of the sale, the net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased by approximately $75 million.
Barra.
 
24.    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108.
 
In September 2006, the SEC released SAB 108. SAB 108 permits the Company to adjust for the cumulative effect of errors relating to prior years in the carrying amount of assets and liabilities as of the beginning of the current fiscal year, with an offsetting adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption. SAB 108 also requires the adjustment of any prior quarterly financial statements within the fiscal year of adoption for the effects of such errors on the quarters when the information is next presented. Such adjustments do not require previously filed reports with the SEC to be amended. Effective August 31, 2006, the Company elected early application of SAB 108. In accordance with SAB 108, the Company has adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 for the items described below. The Company considers these adjustments to be immaterial to prior annual periods.
 
    The Company adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 to reflect a change in its hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The change is being made following a clarification by the SEC of its interpretation of SFAS No. 133 related to the accounting for fair value hedges of fixed-rate trust preferred securities.
Trust Preferred Securities.
 
Since January 2005, the Company entered into various interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in its trust preferred securities. The terms of the interest rate swaps and the corresponding trust preferred securities mirrored one another, and the Company determined in the past that the changes in the fair value of the swaps and hedged instruments were the same. The Company applied the commonly used "short-cut method" in accounting for these fair value hedges and, therefore, did not reflect any gains or losses during the relevant periods. Based upon the SEC's clarification of SFAS No. 133, the Company determined that since it has the ability at its election to defer interest payments on its trust preferred securities, these swaps did not qualify for the short-cut method. These swaps performed as expected as effective economic hedges of interest rate risk. The
 
 
 
Company ended hedging of the interest rate risk on these trust preferred securities effective August 2006 and adjusted its financial results as if hedge accounting was never applied. Prospectively, the Company will manage the interest rate risk on these securities as part of its overall asset liability management.
 
    The Company also adjusted its opening retained earnings for fiscal 2006 and its financial results for the first two quarters of fiscal 2006 for two compensation and benefits accruals. Such accruals are related to (i) the overaccrual of certain payroll taxes in certain non-U.S. locations, primarily in the U.K., which arose in fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2006 and (ii) an adjustment to the amortization expense associated with stock-based compensation awards, which arose in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004.
Compensation and Benefits.
 
    The impact of each of the items noted above on fiscal 2006 opening Shareholders' equity and Retained earnings and on Net income for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2006 is presented below (dollars in millions):
Impact of Adjustments.
 
 
The aggregate impact of these adjustments is summarized below (dollars in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
 
25.    Insurance Settlement.
 
On September 11, 2001, the U.S. experienced terrorist attacks targeted against New York City and Washington, D.C. The attacks in New York resulted in the destruction of the World Trade Center complex, where approximately 3,700 of the Company's employees were located, and the temporary closing of the debt and equity financial markets in the U.S. Through the implementation of its business recovery plans, the Company relocated its displaced employees to other facilities.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company settled its claim with its insurance carriers related to the events of September 11, 2001. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $251 million as the insurance recovery was in excess of previously recognized costs related to the terrorist attacks (primarily write-offs of leasehold improvements and destroyed technology and telecommunications equipment in the World Trade Center complex, employee relocation and certain other employee-related expenditures).
 
The pre-tax gain was recorded as a reduction to non-interest expenses and is included within the Global Wealth Management Group ($198 million), Asset Management ($43 million) and Institutional Securities ($10 million) business segments. The insurance settlement was allocated to the respective segments in accordance with the relative damages sustained by each segment.
 
26.    Lease Adjustment.
 
Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company did not record the effects of scheduled rent increases and rent-free periods for certain real estate leases on a straight-line basis. In addition, the Company had been accounting for certain tenant improvement allowances as reductions to the related leasehold improvements instead of recording funds received as deferred rent and amortizing them as reductions to lease expense over the lease term. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company changed its method of accounting for these rent escalation clauses, rent-free periods and tenant improvement allowances to properly reflect lease expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. The impact of this correction resulted in the Company recording
 
 
 
$109 million of additional rent expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The impact of this change was included within non-interest expenses and reduced income before taxes within the Institutional Securities ($71 million), Global Wealth Management Group ($29 million), Asset Management ($5 million) and Discover ($4 million) business segments. The impact of this correction was not material to the pre-tax income of each of the segments or to the Company.
 
27.    Asset Management and Account Fees.
 
Prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company was improperly recognizing certain management fees, account fees and related compensation expense paid at the beginning of the relevant contract periods, which is when such fees were billed. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company changed its method of accounting for such fees to properly recognize such fees and related expenses over the relevant contract period, generally quarterly or annually. As a result of the change, the Company's results in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 included an adjustment to reflect the cumulative impact of the deferral of certain management fees, account fees and related compensation expense paid to global representatives. The impact of this change reduced net revenues by $107 million, non-interest expenses by $27 million and income before taxes by $80 million, at both the Company and the Global Wealth Management Group business segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Such adjustment reduced fiscal 2004 net income by approximately $50 million and basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.05.
 
28.    Accounting Developments.
 
In April 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FIN 46(R)-6, "Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)" ("FSP FIN 46(R)-6"). FSP FIN 46(R)-6 requires that the determination of the variability to be considered in applying FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46R"), be based on an analysis of the design of the entity. In evaluating whether an interest with a variable interest entity creates or absorbs variability, FSP FIN 46(R)-6 focuses on the role of a contract or arrangement in the design of an entity, regardless of its legal form or accounting classification. The Company adopted the guidance in FSP FIN 46(R)-6 prospectively on September 1, 2006 to all entities that the Company first becomes involved with and to all entities previously required to be analyzed under FIN 46R when a reconsideration event has occurred under paragraph 7 of FIN 46R. The adoption of FSP FIN 46(R)-6 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached in EITF Issue No. 04-5, "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights" ("EITF Issue No. 04-5"). Under the provisions of EITF Issue No. 04-5, a general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control that limited partnership and, therefore, should include the limited partnership in its consolidated financial statements, regardless of the amount or extent of the general partner's interest unless a majority of the limited partners can vote to dissolve or liquidate the partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without having to show cause or the limited partners have substantive participating rights that can overcome the presumption of control by the general partner. EITF Issue No. 04-5 was effective immediately for all newly formed limited partnerships and existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements have been modified. For all other existing limited partnerships for which the partnership agreements have not been modified, the Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5 on December 1, 2006. The adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-5 on December 1, 2006 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments" ("SFAS No. 155"), which amends SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 155 permits hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation to irrevocably be
 
 
 
accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the statement of income. The fair value election may be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis. SFAS No. 155 also eliminates a restriction on the passive derivative instruments that a qualifying special purpose entity may hold. The Company adopted SFAS No. 155 on December 1, 2006 and has elected to fair value only certain hybrid financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event after December 1, 2006.
 
In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140" ("SFAS No. 156"). SFAS No. 156 requires all separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities to be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. The standard permits an entity to subsequently measure each class of servicing assets or servicing liabilities at fair value and report changes in fair value in the statement of income in the period in which the changes occur. The Company adopted SFAS No. 156 on December 1, 2006 and has elected to fair value certain servicing rights held as of the date of adoption. This election did not have a material impact on the Company's opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2006. The Company will also elect to fair value certain servicing rights acquired after December 1, 2006.
 
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company's financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for the Company as of December 1, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting FIN 48.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. In addition, SFAS No. 157 disallows the use of block discounts for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market, and nullifies select guidance provided by EITF Issue No. 02-3, which prohibited the recognition of trading gains or losses at the inception of a derivative contract, unless the fair value of such derivative is obtained from a quoted market price, or other valuation technique that incorporates observable market data. SFAS No. 157 also requires the Company to consider its own credit spreads when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives. Effective December 1, 2006, the Company elected early adoption of SFAS No. 157. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 157 related to block discounts and EITF Issue No. 02-3, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $80 million after-tax as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings as of December 1, 2006, which was primarily associated with EITF Issue No. 02-3. The impact of considering the Company's own credit spreads when measuring the fair value of liabilities, including derivatives, did not have a material impact on fair value measurements at the date of adoption.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). Among other items, SFAS No. 158 requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of an entity's defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the financial statements and requires the measurement of defined benefit and postretirement plan assets and obligations as of the end of the employer's fiscal year. SFAS No. 158's requirement to recognize the funded status in the financial statements is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, and its requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The Company is currently assessing the impact that SFAS No. 158 will have on its consolidated results of operations and cash flows. However, if SFAS No. 158 were to be applied by the Company as of November 30, 2006, based on a September 30, 2006 measurement date, the effect on its consolidated statement of financial position would be an after-tax charge to Shareholders' equity of approximately $355 million.
 
 
 
 
29.    Quarterly Results (unaudited).
 
 
 
 
30.    Subsequent Event.
 
    On February 28, 2007, the Company sold Quilter, which was formerly included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The results of Quilter are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented. The pre-tax gain on discontinued operations relating to Quilter in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 were $27 million, $20 million and $9 million, respectively.
Quilter.
 
Summarized financial information for the Company's discontinued operations:
 
The table below provides information regarding the amounts included within discontinued operations (dollars in millions):
 

Exhibit 99.2
Selected Financial Data.
 
 
 
 
 


