FILE:MS/MS-8K-20080812103907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
On August 11, 2008, Morgan Stanley (the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys repurchase
of certain auction rate securities held by its retail accounts.  A copy of the press release is being filed as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
On August 11, 2008, Moodys Investors Services announced that it had lowered its long-term debt counterparty credit ratings on the Company from Aa3 to A1.  The outlook assigned to the Company is stable.
Statements about the expected effects, timing and completion of the
repurchase
 of any auction rate securities
and all other statements in the press
release, other than historical facts, constitute forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and which reflect current estimates, projections and expectations. In making any such statements,
the Company
believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. However, any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes
 
and results to be materially different from those projected or anticipated. There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of
the Company.
For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of
the Company
, please see
Forward-Looking Statements
immediately preceding Part I, Item 1,
Competition
and
Regulation
in Part I, Item 1,
Risk Factors
in Part I, Item 1A and
Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations
in Part II, Item 7 of
the Company
's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 200
7
,
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
in
the Company
's 200
8
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in other items throughout the Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and the
Company
's 200
8
Current Reports on Form 8-K.
 
 
1
 
 
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 11, 2008
 
 
 
3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 


