FILE:MS/MS-8K-20080915141434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On September 14Stanley (the Company) issued a press release on behalf of a consortium of global commercial and investment banks, including the Company, announcing a series of actions to help enhance liquidity and mitigate the unprecedented volatility and other challenges affecting global equity and debt markets.   A copy of the press release is being filed as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
, 2008, Morgan
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
Consortium of Global Commercial and Investment Banks Takes
Series of Actions to Help Enhance Liquidity and Mitigate
Unprecedented Volatility in Capital Markets
 
                                                                                                              
Sep 14 2008
|
New York
 
A group of global commercial and investment banks, including Bank of America, Barclays, Citibank, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, and UBS, today initiated a series of actions to help en
hance liquidity and mitigate the unprecedented volatility and other challenges affecting global equity and debt markets.  Specifically, the banks are working together to do the following:
 
 
 
 
These cooperative efforts will be enhanced by the Federal Reserve Board's decision to accept expanded classes of collateral under the Primary Dealers Credit Facility, i
ncluding equities.  All participating banks intend to utilize this facility beginning this week.     
 
These actions reflect the extraordinary market environment.  The banks are committed to continuing to work closely with one another as well as the U.S. Tr
easury Department, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission, governments and regulators around the world, and other market participants, to ensure the industry is doing everything it can to provide additional liquidity and assurance to
o
ur capital markets and banking system.
 
For media inquiries, please contact the Media Relations offices at the consortium banks.
 
 
 


