FILE:MS/MS-8K-20081205172418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
_________________________
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
As previously announced, Morgan Stanley (the Company) has agreed to participate in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC) established pursuant to 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program).  In connection therewith, the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (the Trustee) entered into a fourth supplemental senior indenture, dated as of December 1, 2008, to the Companys Senior Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2004, between the Company and the Trustee (as supplemented through December 1, 2008, the Senior Indenture), pursuant to which certain provisions governing those senior unsecured debt securities of the Company that are to be covered by the FDICs guarantee were incorporated into the Senior Indenture, as required under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.
 
On December 2, 2008, the Company completed the offer and sale of $2,250,000,000 of its 2.90% Notes Due 2010, $2,500,000,000 of its 3.25% Notes Due 2011, $500,000,000 of its Floating Rate Notes Due June 2011 and $500,000,000 of its Floating Rate Notes Due December 2011 and, on December 4, 2008, the Company completed the offer and sale of $475,000,000 of its Floating Rate Notes due 2011 (collectively, the Notes).  Each series of Notes is guaranteed by the FDIC under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and was issued in the form of FDIC-guaranteed fixed rate senior note or FDIC-guaranteed floating rate senior note, as the case may be, that are filed as exhibits hereto.  The Company may, from time to time, issue additional senior unsecured debt securities guaranteed by the FDIC pursuant to the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program using these forms of notes.
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL SENIOR INDENTURE dated as of December 1, 2008 between MORGAN STANLEY, a Delaware corporation (the 
Issuer
), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON as successor to JPMorgan Chase B
ank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as trustee (the 
Trustee
).
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer and the Trustee are parties to that certain Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 (the 
Indenture
);
 
WHEREAS, on November 21
, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (
FDIC
) issued its Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (the 
Rule
) establishing the FDIC
s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer has entered into a master agreement by and between the Iss
uer and the FDIC, dated November 26, 2008 (the 
FDIC Master Agreement
) pursuant to which the FDIC agrees to guarantee payments with respect to certain Securities that are eligible for such guarantee under the Rule, (the 
Guaranteed Securities
) and the I
s
suer agrees to reimburse and make whole the FDIC;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the FDIC Master Agreement, the Issuer agreed to incorporate into the Indenture governing any of its Guaranteed Securities certain provisions set out in the FDIC Master Agreement and d
esires to incorporate such provisions into the Indenture by entering into this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, Section 8.01 of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of the Holders of any Securities, the Issuer, when authorized by
a resolution of its Board of Directors, and the Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental to the Indenture for the purpose of, among other things, making any provision as the Issuer may deem necessary and desirable;
provided that
no such action shall
adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities;
 
WHEREAS, the entry into this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Indenture; and
 
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture a valid indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done;
 
NOW, THEREFORE:
 
In consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Securities by the holders the
reof, the Issuer and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of Guaranteed Securities, as follows:
 
2
 
Section 1.01. The Indenture is hereby amended by the insertio
n of a new Article 13 which shall provide as follows:
 
Section 13.01.
Acknowledgement of the FDIC
s Debt Guarantee Program.
The parties to this Indenture acknowledge that the Issuer has not opted out of th
e debt guarantee program (the 
Debt Guarantee Program
) established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (
FDIC
) under its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program on November 21, 2008 pursuant to the FDIC
s Final Rule, 12 C.F.R. Part 370 (as may be
 
amended or supplemented from time to time, the 
Rule
).  The Debt Guarantee Program applies to any Securities issued on or after October 14, 2008 through June 30, 2009 that constitute unsecured senior debt, as defined in the Rule and as to which the Issue
r
has not duly made an opt-out election in accordance with Section 370.3(g) of the Rule (the "Guaranteed Securities") and, with respect to each such Guaranteed Security, from the period from October 14, 2008 to the earlier of the date such Guaranteed Secur
i
ty matures pursuant to the terms thereof and June 30, 2012 (the "Effective Period"). As a result,
this debt is guaranteed under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of t
he FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDIC
s regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDIC
s website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDIC
s guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of this debt or June 30, 2012.
 
The security certificat
e, note or other instrument evidencing each Guaranteed Security shall bear a legend, upon which the Representative (as defined below) shall be entitled to conclusively rely, to the effect that such security certificate, note or other instrument is guarant
e
ed by the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program.
 
Section 13.02.
Trustee as Representative of Holders.
(a) The Bank of New York Mellon and its successors are designated as the duly authorized representatives of the Holders for purposes of making claims a
nd taking other permitted or required actions under the Debt Guarantee Program (the 
Representative
).  Any Holder may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
(b)
Upon an uncured failure by the Issuer to make a timely payment of principal or interest under any Guaranteed Securities (a 
Payment Default
), the Representative, on behalf of all Holders of such Guaranteed Securities that are represented by the Represen
t
ative, shall submit to the FDIC a demand for payment by the FDIC of such
unpaid principal and interest, together with proof of such claim and such other documentation as may be required by the FDIC under the Rule (i) in the case of any payment due by the
Issuer prior to the final maturity or redemption of such Guaranteed
3
 
Securities, on the earlier of the date that the applicable cure period ends (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately succeeding Business Day) and 60 days following such Pa
y
ment Default and (ii) in the case of any payment due by the Issuer on the final maturity date or on a redemption date for such Guaranteed Securities, on such final maturity date or redemption date (or if such date is not a Business Day, the immediately su
c
ceeding Business Day).
 
Section 13.03.
Subrogation
. The FDIC shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the Holders of Guaranteed Securities and the Representative with respect to such Guaranteed Securities under this Indenture against the Issuer in respe
ct of any amounts paid to the Holders of the Guaranteed Securities, or for the benefit of the Holders of the Guaranteed Securities, by the FDIC pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program.
 
Section 13.04.
Assignment upon Guarantee Payment
. The Holders of Guaran
teed Securities hereby authorize the Representative, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any guarantee payments to the Representative for the benefit of the Holders of Guaranteed Securities pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program (each, a 
Guara
n
tee Payment
), to execute an assignment in the form attached as Annex A, pursuant to which the Representative shall assign to the FDIC its right as Representative to receive any and all payments from the Issuer under this Indenture on behalf of the Holder
s
of Guaranteed Securities. The Issuer hereby consents and agrees that the FDIC is an acceptable transferee for all or any portion of the Guaranteed Securities for all purposes of this Indenture and upon any such assignment, the FDIC shall be deemed a Hold
e
r under this Indenture for all purposes hereof, and the Issuer hereby agrees to take such reasonable steps as are necessary to comply with any relevant provision of this Indenture as a result of such assignment.
 
If a Holder of Guaranteed Securities has ex
ercised its right not to be represented by the Representative, such Holder of Guaranteed Securities hereby agrees that, at such time as the FDIC shall commence making any Guarantee Payments to the Holder pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program, such Holder
 
shall execute an assignment in the form attached as Annex A, pursuant to which such Holder shall assign to the FDIC its right to receive any and all payments from the Issuer under this Indenture.
 
Section 13.05.
Surrender of Guaranteed Securities to the
FDIC
. If, at any time on or prior to the expiration of the Effective Period, payment in full hereunder shall be made pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on the outstanding principal and accrued interest to such date of payment, with respect to any Guara
nteed Securities, the Holder of such Guaranteed Securities shall, or shall cause the person or entity in possession of such Guaranteed Securities to, promptly surrender to the FDIC the security certificate, note or other instrument evidencing such Guarant
e
ed Securities, if any.
 
Section 13.06.
Notice Obligations to the FDIC of Payment Default
. If, at any time prior to the earlier of (i) full satisfaction of the payment obligations under any Guaranteed Securities, or (ii) expiration of the Effective Period,
the Issuer is in default of any payment obligation under any Guaranteed Securities, including timely payment of any accrued and unpaid interest, without regard to any cure period, the
4
 
Representative covenants and agrees that it shall provide written notic
e
to the FDIC within one (1) Business Day of such payment default.
 
Section 13.07.
Rankings
. Any indebtedness of the Issuer to the FDIC arising under Section 2.03 of the Master Agreement entered into by the Issuer and the FDIC in connection with the Debt Gu
arantee Program will constitute a senior unsecured obligation of the Issuer, ranking
pari passu
with any indebtedness under the Indenture.
 
Section 13.08.
No Event of Default During Time of Timely FDIC Guarantee Payments
. There shall not be deemed to be an
Event of Default under this Indenture, which would permit or result in the acceleration of amounts due hereunder, if such an Event of Default is due solely to the failure of the Issuer to make timely payment under the Guaranteed Securities, provided that
 
the FDIC is making timely Guarantee Payments with respect to such Guaranteed Securities, in accordance with the Rule.
 
Section 13.09.
No Modifications without FDIC Consent
. Without the express written consent of the FDIC, the parties hereto agree not to am
end, modify, supplement or waive any provision in this Indenture that is related to the principal, interest, payment, default or ranking of the Guaranteed Securities or that is required to be included herein pursuant to the Master Agreement executed by th
e
Issuer in connection with the Debt Guarantee Program.
 
Section 1.02. The Indenture is hereby amended by the insertion of a new 
Annex A
in the form attached hereto.
Section 1.03. The Indenture is hereby amended by the insertion of the following paragraph directly after the second paragraph of Section 5.01:
 
The foregoing paragraph shall be inapplicable to Guaranteed Securities (as defined in Section 13.01), the accel
eration of which upon the occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default shall be governed by this paragraph. Subject to Section 13.08 of the Senior Indenture, if an Event of Default with respect to the Guaranteed Securities of any series at the time O
u
tstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in each and every case, unless the principal of all of the Guaranteed Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate pri
n
cipal amount of the Guaranteed Securities of such series then Outstanding hereunder, by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders of such series), may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of such series
 
are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all
the Guaranteed Securities of such series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and
upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything in this Indenture or in such Guaranteed Securities contained to the contrary notwithstanding.
 
5
 
Section 2.01.
Further As
surances
. The Issuer will, upon request by the Trustee, execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may reasonably be necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture.
 
Section 2.02.
Other Terms of Indenture
. Except insofar as herein otherwise expressly provided, all provisions, terms and conditions of the Indenture are in all respects ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Section 2.03.
Term
s Defined
. All terms defined elsewhere in the Indenture shall have the same meanings when used herein.
 
Section 2.04.
Governing Law
. This Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for
all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such State, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
 
Section 2.05.
Counterparts
. This Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture may be executed in any number of counterp
arts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
Section 2.06.
Responsibility of the Trustee
. The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the T
rustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same.  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture.
 
6
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth
Supple
mental Senior Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of December 1, 2008.
 
 
[Corporate Seal]
 
Attest:
 
 
 
Attest:
 
7
 
 
On this 1
st
day of December 2008 before me personally came  to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say t
Daniel B. Park
hat he resides at that he is an of Morgan Stanley, one of the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument; and that [he][she] signed [his][her] name thereto by authority
;
Chatham, New Jersey
Assistant Treasurer
 
of the Board of Directors of said corporation.
 
[NOTARIAL SEAL]
 
 
 
 
On this 1
st
day of December 2008 before me personally came to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that she resides at ; that she is a V of The Bank o
Kimberly Davidson
Brooklyn
, New York
ice President
f
New York Mellon, one of the corporations described in and which executed the above instrument; and that [he][she] signed [his][her] name thereto by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation.
 
 
[NOTARIAL SEAL]
 
 
 
ANNEX A
 
This Assignment is made pursuant to the terms of Section 13.04 of the Senior Indenture, dated as of November 1, 2004, as amended from time to time (the 
Indenture
), between The Bank of New York Mellon (the 
Representative
), acting on behalf of the H
olders of the Guaranteed Securities issued under the Indenture who have not opted out of representation by the Representative (with those Holders of Guaranteed Securities who have opted out of representation by the Representative being the 
Unrepresented
H
olders
), and Morgan Stanley (the 
Issuer
) with respect to the debt obligations of the Issuer that are guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in
 
the Indenture.
 
For value received, [the Representative, on behalf of the Holders of Guaranteed Securities] [OR] [the Unrepresented Holders] (the 
Assignor
), hereby assigns to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the 
FDIC
), without recourse, all o
f the Assignor
s respective rights, title and interest in and to:
(a) the promissory note or other instrument evidencing the Guaranteed Security (the 
Note
); (b) the Indenture pursuant to which the Note was issued; and (c) any other instrument or agreeme
nt executed by the Issuer regarding obligations of the Issuer under the Note or the Indenture (collectively, the 
Assignment
).
 
The Assignor hereby certifies that:
 
1.   Without the FDIC
s prior written consent, the Assignor has not:
 
(a)
   agreed to any material amendment of the Note or the Indenture to the extent relating to the Note or to any material deviation from the provisions thereof; or
 
(b)   accelerated the maturity of the Note.
 
[
Instructions to the Assignor:
If the Assignor has not assigned or transferred any interest in the Note and related documentation, such Assignor must include the following representation.]
 
2. The Assignor has not assigned or otherwise transferred any interest in the Note or Indenture;
 
 
[
Instructions to the Assignor:
If the Assignor has assigned a partial interest in the Note and related documentation, the Assignor must include the following representation.]
 
2. The Assignor has assigned part of its rights, title and interest in the Note
and the Indenture to _____________ pursuant to the __________ agreement, dated as of ___________, 20__ between ___________, as assignor, and ____________, as assignee, an executed copy of which is attached hereto.
 
The Assignor acknowledges and agrees tha
t this Assignment is subject to the Indenture and to the following:
 
1. In the event the Assignor receives any payment under or related to the Note or the Indenture from a party other than the FDIC (a 
Non-FDIC Payment
):
(a) after the date of demand for
a Guarantee Payment on the FDIC pursuant to the Rule, but prior to the date of the FDIC
s first guarantee payment under the Indenture pursuant to the Rule, the Assignor shall promptly but in no event later than five (5) Business Days after receipt notify
 
the FDIC of the date and the amount of such Non-FDIC Payment and shall apply such payment as payment made by the Issuer, and not as a Guarantee Payment made by the FDIC, and therefore, the amount of such payment shall be excluded from this Assignment; and
(b) after the FDIC
s first guarantee payment under the Indenture, the Assignor shall forward promptly to the FDIC such Non-FDIC Payment in accordance with the payment instructions provided in writing by the FDIC.
2.
Acceptance by the Assignor of payment pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program on behalf of the Holders of Guaranteed Securities shall constitute a release by such Holders of any liability of the FDIC under the Debt Guarantee Program with respect to such p
a
yment.
 
The Person who is executing this Assignment on behalf of the Assignor hereby represents and warrants to the FDIC that he/she/it is duly authorized to do so.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment to be duly executed and
attested, all as of this ___day of ________, ____.
 
 
 
Attest:
 
Consented to and acknowledged by this ____ day of _________, 20__:
THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
 
 
 

 
 
This debt is guaranteed under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDICs regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDICs website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDICs guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of the debt or June 30, 2012.
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (), to the Issuer (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
[
DTC
 
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.]
1
 
[]
Insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the Regulations thereunder
 
[]
Insert any legend required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and the Regulations thereunder
 
Modify as appropriate if this Registered Global Security will not settle in DTC
1
 
 
Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of ______________, on ______________ (the ), and to pay interest thereon at the rate of ___% per annum from ______________, until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment, [weekly] [monthly] [quarterly] [semiannually] [annually] in arrears on __________ in each year (each such date, an ), commencing on ___________, and on the Maturity Date.
Issuer
Maturity Date
Interest Payment Date
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this certificate set forth on the succeeding pages hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
 
2
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Morgan Stanley has caused this Registered Global Security to be duly executed.
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE
OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities referred
to in the within-mentioned
Senior Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON,
as Trustee
3
Interest on this Registered Global Security (as described below) will accrue from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, or, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for, from and including _____________, until, but excluding, the date the principal hereof has been paid or duly made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Person in whose name this Registered Global Security (or one or more predecessor Registered Global Securities) is registered at the close of business on the fifteenth calendar day prior to such Interest Payment Date (whether or not a Business Day (as defined below)) (each such date, a ); provided that the interest payment due on the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date) will be payable to the Person to whom the principal is paid.  As used herein,  means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, (a) that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close (x) in The City of New York or (y) if this Registered Global Security is denominated in a currency (the )other than U.S. dollars, euro or Australian dollars, in the principal financial center of the country of the Specified Currency, or (z) if this Note is denominated in Australian dollars, in Sydney and (b) if this Note is denominated in euro, that is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system, which utilizes a single shared platform and was launched on November 19, 2007, is open for the settlement of payment in euro (a ).  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Interest payments on this Registered Global Security will include interest accrued to but excluding the Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date), as the case may be.
Record Date
Business Day
Specified Currency
 
TARGET Settlement Day
 
In the case where an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date) does not fall on a Business Day, payment of interest, premium, if any, or principal otherwise payable on such date need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date), and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date) to such next succeeding Business Day.
 
Payment of the principal of this Registered Global Security, any premium and the interest due on the Maturity Date or any redemption date, [unless this Registered Global Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars and is to be paid in such Specified Currency], will be made upon surrender of this Registered Global Security at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, [at the office or agency of the London Paying
1
 
 
 Insert if Notes are to be settled in DTC.
2
 
 
4
 
Agent, as defined below,] or at such other paying agency as the Issuer may determine (the [, which term shall include the London Paying Agent]).  Payment of the principal of, any premium and interest on this Registered Global Security will be made in [such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts] [in [____]];, that at the option of the Issuer, interest may be paid by wire transfer or by mailing checks for such interest payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto at its last address as it appears on the registry books of the Issuer.
Paying Agent
provided, however
 
If this Registered Global Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, payments of principal and interest will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the holder hereof with a bank located outside the United States if appropriate wire transfer instructions have been received by the Paying Agent in writing, with respect to payments of interest, on or prior to the fifth Business Day after the applicable Record Date and, with respect to payments of principal, at least ten Business Days prior to the Maturity Date [or the redemption date], as the case may be; , if payment of interest or principal with regard to this Registered Global Security, is payable in euro, the account must be a euro account in a country for which the euro is the lawful currency, , that if such wire transfer instructions are not received, such payments will be made by check payable in such Specified Currency mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the registry books of the Issuer; and , that payment of the principal of this Registered Global Security and the interest due at maturity [or on the redemption date] will be made upon surrender of this Registered Global Security at the office or agency referred to in the preceding paragraph.
[
Insert for non-U.S. dollar Notes settled through DTC:
provided that
provided, further
provided, further
]
 
This Registered Global Security is one of the duly authorized debt securities of the Issuer (the  and, individually, a ) issued or to be issued under and pursuant to the Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007, the Second Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008, the Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 10, 2008 and the Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 (the ), and as may be further amended or supplemented from time to time, the ), between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Mellon (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank)), as Trustee (the , which term includes any successor Trustee under the Senior Indenture), to which Senior Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities of the Issuer, the Trustee and Holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The terms of the Senior Indenture are hereby incorporated by reference herein.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption or repayment provisions (if any), may be
Securities
Security
Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture
Senior Indenture
Trustee
 
5
 
subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any) and may otherwise vary as provided in the Senior Indenture.  This security is a Registered Global Security of a series of Securities designated as the [Title of Security] Guaranteed Under the FDICs Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the ).
Notes
 
The Issuer has appointed The Bank of New York Mellon, acting through its principal corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York as a paying agent for the Notes in the United States [and The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch, at its corporate trust office in London, as an additional paying agent for the Notes outside the United States (the ), which term includes any additional or successor London Paying Agent appointed by the Issuer).
[
Insert for Notes settled through Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg directly:
London Paying Agent
]
 
Article 13 of the Senior Indenture shall apply to the Notes. The Bank of New York Mellon and its successors have been designated as the Representative of the Holders of the Notes. Any Holder of this Note may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
The Notes will not be subject to any sinking fund and will not be repayable at the option of the Holder prior to maturity.
If the Holder of a Note is a United States Alien, as defined below, the Issuer shall pay additional amounts to such Holder as may be necessary in order that every Net Payment, as defined below, of the principal of and interest on such Note will not be less than the amount provided for in such Note to be then due and payable. A  shall mean (i) a foreign corporation, (ii) a nonresident alien individual, (iii) a nonresident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, or (iv) a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is a foreign corporation, a nonresident alien individual or a nonresident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.   shall mean the amount the Issuer or its Paying Agent pays after deducting or withholding for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed with respect to such payment by the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein.
[
Insert if Notes are subject to payment of Additional Amounts:
 
United States Alien
Net Payment
 
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall not be required to pay any additional amounts to a Holder of a Note for or on account of:
 
 
 
6
 
United States; or (2) the presentation by such Holder or such beneficial owner of the Note for payment on a date more than 15 days after the date on which payment became due and payable or the date on which payment thereof is duly provided for, whichever occurs later;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Issuer shall not be required to make any payment of additional amounts with respect to any Note presented for payment: (i) where such withholding or deduction is required to be made pursuant to the European Union Directive on the taxation of savings or any other directive implementing the conclusions of the ECOFIN
 
 
7
 
Council meeting of 2627 November 2000 or any law implementing or complying with, or introduced in order to conform to, such Directive; or (ii) by or on behalf of a Holder who would have been able to avoid such withholding or deduction by presenting the relevant Note to another Paying Agent in a Member State of the European Union.
 
The Issuer shall not pay additional amounts with respect to any payment of principal, or interest to any United States Alien who is a fiduciary or a partnership, or who is not the sole beneficial owner of the payment to the extent that the Issuer would not have to pay additional amounts to any beneficiary or settlor of the fiduciary or any member of that partnership, or to any beneficial owner of the payment, if that person or entity were treated as the beneficial owner of such Note for these purposes.
]
 
The Issuer shall be entitled, at its option, to redeem the outstanding Notes in whole but not in part if at any time the Issuer has or will become obligated to pay additional amounts on any Notes on the subsequent Interest Payment Date, but only if the obligation of the Issuer results from a change in the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, or from a change in any official interpretation or application of those laws or regulations, that becomes effective or is announced on or after .  Prior to giving the notice of such redemption pursuant the second succeeding paragraph, the Issuer shall provide the Trustee with an Opinion of Counsel that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer to redeem the Notes have occurred. Such Opinion of Counsel shall be based on the laws and application and interpretation thereof in effect on the date of such opinion or to become effective on or before such subsequent Interest Payment Date.
[
Insert if Notes are subject to Tax Redemption:
 
[
Insert pricing date]
 
If the Issuer redeems the Notes, it shall do so at the redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date.
 
If the Issuer becomes entitled to redeem the Notes, it may do so at any time on a redemption date of its choice. However, the Issuer must give the Holders of the Notes being redeemed notice of the redemption not less than 30 days or more than 60 days before the redemption date. In addition, the obligation of the Issuer to pay additional amounts must remain in effect when the Issuer gives the notice of redemption.
]
 
This Registered Global Security and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder are direct, unsecured obligations of the Issuer and rank without preference or priority among themselves and with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Issuer, subject to certain statutory exceptions in the event of liquidation upon insolvency.
pari passu
This Registered Global Security, and any Registered Global Security or Registered Global Securities issued upon transfer or exchange hereof, is issuable only in fully registered form, without coupons, and in denominations of U.S. $[_____] and any integral multiple of U.S. $[_____] in excess thereof.
 
 
8
 
The Trustee has been appointed registrar for the Notes, and the Trustee will maintain at its office in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a register for the registration and transfer of Notes.  Subject to the limitations, terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Senior Indenture, this Registered Global Security may be
transferred at the aforesaid office of the Trustee by surrendering this Registered Global Security for cancellation, and thereupon the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees, in exchange herefor, a new Registered Global Security or Registered Global Securities having identical terms and provisions and having a like aggregate principal amount in authorized denominations.  Upon the occurrence of certain events specified in Section 2.08 of the Senior Indenture, this Registered Global Security is exchangeable at the office of the Trustee for definitive registered Notes without coupons of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount and having identical terms and provisions as the surrendered Registered Global Security.
 
All Registered Global Securities surrendered for transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to, the Issuer and the Trustee and executed by the registered Holder or by the Holders attorney duly authorized in writing.  The Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any such exchange or registration of transfer.
 
The Senior Indenture permits the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the debt securities of all series issued under the Senior Indenture then outstanding and affected (voting as one class), to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner the rights of the Holders of each series so affected; that the Issuer and the Trustee may not, without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding debt security affected thereby, (a) extend the final maturity of any such debt security, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof, or change the currency of payment thereof, or modify or amend the provisions for conversion of any currency into any other currency, or modify or amend the provisions for conversion or exchange of the debt security for securities of the Issuer or other entities or for other property or the cash value of the property (other than as provided in the antidilution provisions or other similar adjustment provisions of the debt securities or otherwise in accordance with the terms thereof), or impair or affect the rights of any Holder to institute suit for the payment thereof or (b) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of debt securities the consent of the Holders of which is required for any such supplemental indenture.
provided
 
Subject to Section 13.08 of the Senior Indenture, the Senior Indenture provides that if an Event of Default (as defined in Section 5.01 and Section 13.08 of the Senior Indenture) with respect to the Guaranteed Securities (as defined in Section 13.01 of the Senior Indenture) of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in each and every case, unless the principal of all of the Guaranteed Securities of
 
9
 
such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Guaranteed Securities of such series then Outstanding under the Senior Indenture, by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders of such series), may declare the principal
amount (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all the Guaranteed Securities of such series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything in the Senior Indenture or in such Guaranteed Securities contained to the contrary notwithstanding.
 
No provision of this Registered Global Security or of the Senior Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Registered Global Security at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed unless otherwise agreed between the Issuer and the registered Holder of this Registered Global Security.
 
The Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the registered Holder hereof as the absolute owner of this Registered Global Security (whether or not this Registered Global Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and, subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and none of the Issuer, the Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Issuer in the Senior Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Issuer or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Issuer or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of penalty or assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof.
 
This Registered Global Security shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
All terms used in this Registered Global Security, which are defined in the Senior Indenture and not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Indenture.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Registered Global Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Senior Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
10
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
 
 
 
 
 
[PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE]
the within Registered Global Security, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing
 
attorney to transfer such security on the books of the Issuer, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
 
 
12

 
 
This debt is guaranteed under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporations Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The details of the FDIC guarantee are provided in the FDICs regulations, 12 CFR Part 370, and at the FDICs website, www.fdic.gov/tlgp. The expiration date of the FDICs guarantee is the earlier of the maturity date of the debt or June 30, 2012.
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (), to the Issuer (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
[
DTC
 
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
]
1
 
[]
Insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the Regulations thereunder
 
[]
Insert any legend required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and the Regulations thereunder
 
Modify as appropriate if this Registered Global Security will not settle in DTC
1
 
 
 
 
Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _____________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of _______________, on _____________ (the ), and to pay interest thereon at a rate per annum equal to [LIBOR] [EURIBOR] (as defined below) (the ) [[plus] [minus] ____%]
Issuer
Maturity Date
Base Rate
until the principal hereof is paid or duly made available for payment, [weekly] [monthly] [quarterly] [semiannually] [annually] in arrears on the __ day of ________ in each year (each such date, an ), commencing on ________, and on the Maturity Date.  Interest will be computed based on an actual/360 day count basis.  Interest payments for this Registered Global Security shall include accrued interest from and including ________ or from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, to but excluding the Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date or an earlier redemption date (except as described below), as the case may be.
2
Interest Payment Date
 
If any Interest Payment Date, other than the Maturity Date or an earlier redemption date, falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.  If the Maturity Date or an earlier redemption date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of interest and principal on this Registered Global Security shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after the Maturity Date or redemption date.
 
The rate of interest on this Registered Global Security shall be reset [weekly] [monthly] [quarterly] [semiannually] [annually] (the , and the first day of each Interest Reset Period being an ).  The Interest Reset Dates shall be ___________ of each year, commencing ____________; the interest rate in effect from ___________  (the ) to but excluding the first Interest Reset Date shall be the rate determined on the second London banking day prior to the Original Issue Date (such rate, the ).  If any Interest Reset Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the Interest Reset Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except if that Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Reset Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Interest Reset Period
Interest Reset Date
provided that
Original Issue Date
Initial Interest Rate
 
Insert if applicable
2
 
 
 
2
 
As used herein,  means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, (a) that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close (x) in The City of New York or (y) if this Registered Global Security is denominated in a currency (the )other than U.S. dollars, euro or Australian dollars, in the principal financial center of the country of the Specified Currency, or (z) if this Note is denominated in Australian dollars, in Sydney and (b) if this Note is denominated in euro, that is also a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system, which utilizes a single shared platform and was launched on November 19, 2007, is open for the settlement of payment in euro (a ).
Business Day
Specified Currency
 
TARGET Settlement Day
 
The Bank of New York Mellon (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank)), is the  for this Registered Global Security.  Upon the request of the Holder of this Registered Global Security, the Calculation Agent shall provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate that shall become effective on the next Interest Reset Date.
Calculation Agent
 
The Calculation Agent shall determine the Initial Interest Rate and the interest rate for each succeeding Interest Reset Period.  The Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date, if this Registered Global Security bears interest calculated by reference to LIBOR (other than for LIBOR Notes for which the Index Currency is euros) shall be the second London banking day prior to such Interest Reset Date, except that the Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date, if interest is calculated by reference to LIBOR, for which the Index Currency is pounds sterling will be such Interest Reset Date.  As used herein,  means any day on which dealings in deposits in the Index Currency (as defined herein) are transacted in the London interbank market.  The Interest Determination Date pertaining to an Interest Reset Date, if this Registered Global Security bears interest calculated by reference to EURIBOR (or to LIBOR when the Index Currency is euros) shall be the second TARGET Settlement Day prior to such Interest Reset Date.
London banking day
 
[LIBOR shall be determined by the Calculation Agent follows:
Insert if Base Rate is LIBOR:
 
(i) LIBOR means, for any Interest Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in _________ (the ) for a period of _________ (the ), commencing on [the second London banking day immediately following]
Index Currency
Index Maturity
that Interest Determination Date, that appear on Page [LIBOR01], or any successor page for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for U.S. dollars (the ), on Reuters Money 3000 Service, or any successor service, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated LIBOR Page; except that if the Designated LIBOR Page, by its terms, provides only for a single rate, that single rate shall be used.
3
Designated LIBOR Page
 
 
Insert if Index Currency is other than pounds sterling
3
 
 
3
 
(ii) If (a) fewer than two offered rates appear or (b) no rate appears and the Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, then the Calculation Agent shall request the principal London offices of each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Issuer) to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in the Index Currency for the period of the Index Maturity commencing on [the second London banking day immediately following] the Interest Determination Date, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that Interest Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in that Index Currency in that market at that time.
4
 
(iii) If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR determined on that Interest Determination Date shall be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR shall be determined for the applicable Interest Reset Date as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately [11:00 a.m.], [] time, on that Interest Reset Date, by three major banks in [] selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Issuer) for loans in the Index Currency to leading European banks, having the Index Maturity and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in that Index Currency in that market at that time.
principal financial center for country of the Index Currency
principal financial center for the country of the Index Currency
 
(iv) If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, LIBOR for that Interest Determination Date shall remain the LIBOR in effect for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period, or, if there was no preceding Interest Reset Period, the rate of interest payable shall be the Initial Interest Rate.]
 
[EURIBOR shall be the rate for deposits in euros as sponsored, calculated and published jointly by the European Banking Federation and ACI  The Financial Market Association, or any company established by the joint sponsors for purposes of compiling and publishing those rates, for a period of _________ (the ) as that rate appears on the display on Reuters 3000 Xtra Service (), or any successor service, on page EURIBOR01 or any other page as may replace page EURIBOR01 on that service () as of 11:00 a.m., Brussels time.
Insert if Base Rate is EURIBOR:
Index Maturity
Reuters
Reuters Page EURIBOR01
 
The following procedures shall be followed if the rate cannot be determined as described above:
 
(i) If the above rate does not appear, the Calculation Agent shall request the principal Euro-zone office of each of four major banks in the Euro-zone interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Issuer), to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered rate for deposits in euros, at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the Interest Determination Date, to prime banks in the Euro-zone interbank market for the Index Maturity commencing on the applicable Interest Reset 
 
 
  Insert if Index Currency is other than pounds sterling.
4
 
 
 
4
 
Date, and in a principal amount not less than the equivalent of U.S.$1 million in euro that is representative of a single transaction in euro, in that market at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, EURIBOR shall be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.
 
(ii) If fewer than two quotations are provided, EURIBOR shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted by four major banks in the Euro-zone interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Issuer), at approximately 11:00 a.m., Brussels time, on the applicable Interest Reset Date for loans in euro to leading European banks for a period of time equivalent to the Index Maturity commencing on that Interest Reset Date in a principal amount not less than the equivalent of U.S.$1 million in euro.
 
(iii) If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, EURIBOR for that Interest Determination Date shall remain EURIBOR for the immediately preceding Interest Reset Period, or, if there was no Interest Reset Period, the rate of interest payable shall be the Initial Interest Rate.
 
Euro-zone means the region comprised of Member States of the European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the relevant treaty of the European Union, as amended.]
 
Accrued interest on this Registered Global Security shall be calculated by multiplying the principal amount hereof by an accrued interest factor.  The accrued interest factor shall be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which interest is being paid.  The interest factor for each day is computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to that day by 360.  The interest rate in effect on any Interest Reset Date shall be the applicable rate as reset on that date.  The interest rate applicable to any other day is the interest rate from the immediately preceding Interest Reset Date, or if none, the Initial Interest Rate.  All percentages used in or resulting from any calculation of the rate of interest on this Registered Global Security shall be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point (with .000005% rounded up to .00001%), and all U.S. dollar amounts used in or resulting from these calculations shall be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent rounded upward).  All amounts denominated in any other currency used in or resulting from such calculations will be rounded to the nearest two decimal places in such currency, with .005 being rounded up to ..01.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this certificate set forth on the succeeding pages hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
 
5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Morgan Stanley has caused this Registered Global Security to be duly executed.
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE
OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities referred
to in the within-mentioned
Senior Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON,
as Trustee
 
 
 
6
 
The interest payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name this Registered Global Security (or one or more predecessor Registered Global Securities) is registered at the close of business on the fifteenth calendar day prior to such Interest Payment Date (whether or not a Business Day) (each such date, a ); provided that the interest payment due on the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date) will be payable to the Person to whom the principal is paid.
Record Date
 
Payment of the principal of this Registered Global Security, and the interest due on the Maturity Date (or any earlier redemption date), [unless this Registered Global Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars and is to be paid in such Specified Currency], shall be made upon surrender of this Registered Global Security at the office or agency of the Issuer, maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, [at the office or agency of the London Paying Agent, as defined below,] or at such other paying agency as the Issuer may determine (the [, which term shall include the London Paying Agent]).  Payment of the principal of, and interest on this Registered Global Security shall be made in [such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts] [in [____]];, that at the option of the Issuer, interest may be paid by wire transfer or by mailing checks for such interest payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto at its last address as it appears on the registry books of the Issuer.
5
Paying Agent
provided, however
 
If this Registered Global Security is denominated in a Specified Currency other than U.S. dollars, payments of principal and interest will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account maintained by the holder hereof with a bank located outside the United States if appropriate wire transfer instructions have been received by the Paying Agent in writing, with respect to payments of interest, on or prior to the fifth Business Day after the applicable Record Date and, with respect to payments of principal, at least ten Business Days prior to the Maturity Date [or the redemption date], as the case may be; , if payment of interest or principal with regard to this Registered Global Security is payable in euro, the account must be a euro account in a country for which the euro is the lawful currency, , that if such wire transfer instructions are not received, such payments will be made by check payable in such Specified Currency mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the registry books of the Issuer; and , that payment of the principal of this Registered Global Security and the interest due at maturity [or on the redemption date] will be made upon surrender of this Registered Global Security at the office or agency referred to in the preceding paragraph.
[
Insert for non-U.S. dollar Notes settled through DTC:
provided that
provided, further
provided, further
]
 
Insert if Notes are to be settled in DTC.
5
 
 
7
 
 
Indenture), and as may be further amended or supplemented from time to time, the ), between the Issuer and The Bank of New York Mellon (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank)), as Trustee (the , which term includes any successor Trustee under the Senior Indenture), to which Senior Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities of the Issuer, the Trustee and Holders of the Securities and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The terms of the Senior Indenture are hereby incorporated by reference herein.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption or repayment provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any) and may otherwise vary as provided in the Senior Indenture.  This security is a Registered Global Security of a series of Securities designated as the [Title of the Securities] Guaranteed Under the FDICs Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the ).
and pursuant to the Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007, the Second Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008, the Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 10, 2008 and the Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 (the 
This Registered Global Security is one of the duly authorized debt securities of the Issuer (the  and, individually, a ) issued or to be issued under
Securities
Security
Fourth Supplemental Senior
Senior Indenture
Trustee
Notes
 
The Issuer has appointed The Bank of New York Mellon, acting through its principal corporate trust office in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York as a Paying Agent for the Notes in the United States [and The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch, at its corporate trust office in London, as an additional Paying Agent for the Notes outside the United States (the ), which term includes any additional or successor London Paying Agent appointed by the Issuer).
[
Insert for Notes settled through Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg directly:
London Paying Agent
]
 
Article 13 of the Senior Indenture shall apply to the Notes. The Bank of New York Mellon and its successors have been designated as the Representative of the Holders of the Notes. Any Holder of this Note may elect not to be represented by the Representative by providing written notice of such election to the Representative.
The Notes shall not be subject to any sinking fund and shall not be repayable at the option of the Holder prior to maturity.
 
If the Holder of a Note is a United States Alien, as defined below, the Issuer shall pay additional amounts to such Holder as may be necessary in order that every Net Payment, as defined below, of the principal of and interest on such Note will not be less than the amount provided for in such Note to be then due and payable.  A  shall mean (i) a foreign corporation, (ii) a nonresident alien individual, (iii) a nonresident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, or (iv) a foreign partnership one or more of the members of
[
Insert if Notes are subject to payment of Additional Amounts:
 
United States Alien
 
8
 
which is a foreign corporation, a nonresident alien individual or a nonresident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.   shall mean the amount the Issuer or its Paying Agent pays after deducting or withholding for or on account of any present or future tax, assessment or governmental charge imposed with respect to such payment by the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein.
Net Payment
 
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall not be required to pay any additional amounts to a Holder of a Note for or on account of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Issuer shall not be required to make any payment of additional amounts with respect to any Note presented for payment: (i) where such withholding or deduction is required to be made pursuant to the European Union Directive on the taxation of savings or any other directive implementing the conclusions of the ECOFIN Council meeting of 2627 November 2000 or any law implementing or complying with, or introduced in order to conform to, such Directive; or (ii) by or on behalf of a Holder who would have been able to avoid such withholding or deduction by presenting the relevant Note to another Paying Agent in a Member State of the European Union.
 
The Issuer shall not pay additional amounts with respect to any payment of principal, or interest to any United States Alien who is a fiduciary or a partnership, or who is not the sole beneficial owner of the payment to the extent that the Issuer would not have to pay additional amounts to any beneficiary or settlor of the fiduciary or any member of that partnership, or to any beneficial owner of the payment, if that person or entity were treated as the beneficial owner of such Note for these purposes.
]
 
The Issuer shall be entitled, at its option, to redeem the outstanding Notes in whole but not in part if at any time the Issuer has or will become obligated to pay additional amounts on any Notes on the subsequent Interest Payment Date, but only if the obligation of the Issuer results from a change in the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein, or from a change in any official interpretation or application of those laws or regulations, that becomes effective or is announced on or after [].  Prior to giving the notice of such redemption pursuant to the second succeeding paragraph, the Issuer shall provide the Trustee with an Opinion of Counsel that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer to redeem the Notes have occurred. Such Opinion of Counsel shall be based on the laws and application and interpretation thereof in effect on the date of such opinion or to become effective on or before such subsequent Interest Payment Date.
[
Insert if Notes are subject to Tax Redemption:
Insert pricing date
 
 
10
 
 
If the Issuer redeems the Notes, it shall do so at the redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date.
 
If the Issuer becomes entitled to redeem the Notes, it may do so at any time on a redemption date of its choice. However, the Issuer must give the Holders of the Notes being redeemed notice of the redemption not less than 30 days or more than 60 days before the redemption date. In addition, the obligation of the Issuer to pay additional amounts must remain in effect when the Issuer gives the notice of redemption.
]
 
This Registered Global Security and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder are direct, unsecured obligations of the Issuer and rank without preference or priority among themselves and with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Issuer, subject to certain statutory exceptions in the event of liquidation upon insolvency.
pari passu
 
This Registered Global Security, and any Registered Global Security or Registered Global Securities issued upon transfer or exchange hereof, is issuable only in fully registered form, without coupons, and in denominations of U.S.$[______] and any integral multiple of U.S.$[_______] in excess thereof.  
 
The Trustee has been appointed registrar for the Notes, and the Trustee will maintain at its office in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a register for the registration and transfer of Notes.  Subject to the limitations, terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Senior Indenture, this Registered Global Security may be transferred at the aforesaid office of the Trustee by surrendering this Registered Global Security for cancellation, and thereupon the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees, in exchange herefor, a new Registered Global Security or Registered Global Securities having identical terms and provisions and having a like aggregate principal amount in authorized denominations.  Upon the occurrence of certain events specified in Section 2.08 of the Senior Indenture, this Registered Global Security is exchangeable at the office of the Trustee for definitive registered Notes without coupons of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount and having identical terms and provisions as the surrendered Registered Global Security.
 
All Registered Global Securities surrendered for transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to, the Issuer and the Trustee and executed by the registered Holder or by the Holders attorney duly authorized in writing.  The Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any such exchange or registration of transfer.
 
The Senior Indenture permits the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the debt securities of all series issued under the Senior Indenture then outstanding and affected (voting as one class), to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in
11
 
any manner the rights of the Holders of each series so affected; that the Issuer and the Trustee may not, without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding debt security affected thereby, (a) extend the final maturity of any such debt security, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any amount payable on redemption thereof, or change the currency of payment thereof, or modify or amend the provisions for conversion of any currency into any other currency, or modify or amend the provisions for conversion or exchange of the debt security for securities of the Issuer or other entities or for other property or the cash value of the property (other than as provided in the antidilution provisions or other similar adjustment provisions of the debt securities or otherwise in accordance with the terms thereof), or impair or affect the rights of any Holder to institute suit for the payment thereof or (b) reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of debt securities the consent of the Holders of which is required for any such supplemental indenture.
provided
 
Subject to Section 13.08 of the Senior Indenture, the Senior Indenture provides that if an Event of Default (as defined in Section 5.01 and Section 13.08 of the Senior Indenture) with respect to the Guaranteed Securities (as defined in Section 13.01 of the Senior Indenture) of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in each and every case, unless the principal of all of the Guaranteed Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Guaranteed Securities of such series then Outstanding under the Senior Indenture, by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Securityholders of such series), may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such series) of all the Guaranteed Securities of such series, and the interest accrued thereon, if any, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything in the Senior Indenture or in such Guaranteed Securities contained to the contrary notwithstanding.
 
No provision of this Registered Global Security or of the Senior Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on this Registered Global Security at the time, place and rates, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed unless otherwise agreed between the Issuer and the registered Holder of this Registered Global Security.
 
The Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the registered Holder hereof as the absolute owner of this Registered Global Security (whether or not this Registered Global Security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and, subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and none of the Issuer, the Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
 
12
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Issuer in the Senior Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto or in any Security, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Issuer or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Issuer or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of penalty or assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof.
 
This Registered Global Security shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
All terms used in this Registered Global Security, which are defined in the Senior Indenture and not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Senior Indenture.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Registered Global Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Senior Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
13
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
 
 
 
[PLEASE PRINT OR TYPE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE]
the within Registered Global Security, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing
 attorney to transfer such security on the books of the Issuer, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
 
 
 
14


