FILE:MS/MS-8K-20090507194556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On May 7, 2009, Morgan Stanley (the Company) announced that it has commenced a public offering of $2 billion of its common stock for sale to the public and that it intends to offer senior notes in a registered public offering. The notes will not be guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. On May 7, 2009, the Company also issued a press release regarding the results of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. A copy of the Companys press releases containing each of these announcements are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Morgan Stanley Announces $2 Billion Public Offering of Common Equity,
Plans for $3 Billion Public Offering of non-FDIC Guaranteed Senior Notes
 
NEW YORK, May 7, 2009  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today announced that it has commenced a public offering of $2 billion of its common stock for sale to the public.
 
Additionally, Morgan Stanley announced that it intends to offer approximately $3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a registered public offering.  The notes will not be guaranteed by the FDIC.
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated will serve as the sole bookrunner for both offerings.  For the common stock offering, the underwriter will have a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 15 percent of the offered amount of common stock from Morgan Stanley to cover over-allotments, if any.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 36 countries.
 
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.  A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed and is effective.  A written prospectus for the offerings meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933 (other than a free writing prospectus as defined in Securities Act Rule 405) may be obtained from Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Attn: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, New York, New York 10014, or by calling toll free 1-866-718-1649 or emailing at prospectus@morganstanley.com.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Morgan Stanley to Raise $2 Billion in Common Equity in Anticipation of Closing of Smith Barney Joint Venture
 
Firm Intends to Repay TARP Investment and Has More Than Sufficient Tier 1 Capital to Do So With Regulatory Approval
 
Firm Has Among Strongest Capital Positions in the Industry and Has Further Enhanced Capital Position Since December 2008 Test Date Used by Federal Reserve
 
 
NEW YORK, May 7, 2009  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) said today that, in anticipation of the closing of the Firms joint venture with Smith Barney and consistent with the Firms long-term capital plan, it has commenced a public offering of $2 billion of its common stock for sale to the public.
 
Morgan Stanley also said it intends to repay the U.S. Treasurys TARP investment as soon as possible from its strong Tier 1 capital reserves, pending the approval of its regulators.  The Firm said it believes it has more than sufficient Tier 1 capital to do so and anticipates completing shortly the required offerings of common equity and non-FDIC guaranteed debt.
 
Regarding the release today of the results of the Federal Reserves Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, Morgan Stanley also noted that:
 
 
 
 
 
31, 2008 test date evaluated by the Federal Reserve, as a result of a significant reduction in risk weighted assets which were $310.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and now stand at $288.3 billion.  The Firms even stronger capital position at the end of the first quarter includes:
 
 
 
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 36 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit .
www.morganstanley.com
 
Morgan Stanley has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Morgan Stanley has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Morgan Stanley and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, Morgan Stanley, any underwriter or any dealer participating in this offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-800-584-6837.
 


