FILE:MS/MS-8K-20090429165633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Morgan Stanley (the Company) held on Wednesday, April 29, 2009, shareholders approved an amendment to our 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan) to authorize an additional 25 million shares to be available for issuance as awards under the Plan.
 
For a description of the terms and conditions of the Plan, as amended and restated on March 10, 2009, see Summary of the Plan as Proposed to be Amended under Item 4. Company Proposal to Amend 2007 Equity Incentive Plan in the proxy statement for our 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which description is incorporated herein by reference.  The description of the Plan contained in the proxy statement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, a copy of which is filed herewith as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
     
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
MORGAN STANLEY
2007 EQUITY INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
(Amended and Restated as of March 10, 2009)
1.
  
The primary purposes of the Morgan Stanley 2007 Equity IncentiveCompensation Plan are to attract, retain and motivate employees, to compensate them for their contributions to the growth and profits of the Company and to encourage them to own Morgan Stanley Stock.
Purpose.
 
2.           
Except as otherwise provided in an applicable Award Document, thefollowing capitalized terms shall have the meanings indicated below for purposes of the Plan and any Award:
Definitions.
 
 means the individual or individuals to whom the Committee delegates authority under the Plan in accordance with Section 5(b).
Administrator
 means any award of Restricted Stock, Stock Units, Options, SARs or Other Awards (or any combination thereof) made under and pursuant to the terms of the Plan.
Award
 means the date specified in a Participants Award Document as the grant date of the Award.
Award Date
 means a written document (including in electronic form) that sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Documents shall be authorized in accordance with Section 12(e).
Award Document
 means the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.
Board
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable rulings, regulations and guidance thereunder.
Code
 means the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board, any successor committee thereto or any other committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan or to have authority with respect to the Plan, or any subcommittee appointed by such Committee.
Committee
 means Morgan Stanley and all of its Subsidiaries.
Company
 means the individuals described in Section 6 who are eligible for Awards.
Eligible Individuals
 means any trust established or maintained by the Company in connection with an employee benefit plan (including the Plan) under which current and former employees of the Company constitute the principal beneficiaries.
Employee Trust
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
Exchange Act
1
 means, with respect to a Share, the fair market value thereof as of the relevant date of determination, as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee.
Fair Market Value
 means an Option that is intended to qualify for special federal income tax treatment pursuant to Sections 421 and 422 of the Code, as now constituted or subsequently amended, or pursuant to a successor provision of the Code, and which is so designated in the applicable Award Document.
Incentive Stock Option
 means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation.
Morgan Stanley
 or  means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9, to purchase one Share.
Option
Stock Option
 means any other form of award authorized under Section 11 of the Plan, including any such Other Award the receipt of which was elected pursuant to Section 12(a).
Other Award
 means an individual to whom an Award has been made.
Participant
 means the Morgan Stanley 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended from time to time in accordance with Section 15(e) below.
Plan
 means Shares granted or sold to a Participant pursuant to Section 7.
Restricted Stock
 means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10, to receive upon exercise of such right, in cash or Shares (or a combination thereof) as authorized by the Committee, an amount equal to the increase in the Fair Market Value of one Share over a specified exercise price.
SAR
 means, for a given fiscal year of Morgan Stanley, any Participant designated by the Committee as a Participant whose compensation may be subject to the limit on deductible compensation imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).
Section 162(m) Participant
 means the performance formula that was approved by Morgan Stanleys stockholders on March 22, 2001 or any other performance formula or performance goals approved by Morgan Stanleys stockholders pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).
Section 162(m) Performance Goals
 means Section 409A of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto).
Section 409A
 means shares of Stock.
Shares
 means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Morgan Stanley.
Stock
 means a right, granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8, to receive one Share or an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share, as authorized by the Committee.
Stock Unit
2
 
 means (i) a corporation or other entity with respect to which Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, has the power, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, to elect at least a majority of the members of such corporations board of directors or analogous governing body, or (ii) any other corporation or other entity in which Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, has an equity or similar interest and which the Committee designates as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.
Subsidiary
 means Awards granted upon assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by, or held by employees of, a company or other entity or business acquired (directly or indirectly) by Morgan Stanley or with which Morgan Stanley combines.
Substitute Awards
3.     Effective Date and Term of Plan.
(a)
 
. The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board,subject to its approval by Morgan Stanleys stockholders. Prior to such stockholder approval, the Committee may grant Awards conditioned on stockholder approval, but no Shares may be issued or delivered pursuant to any such Award until Morgan Stanleys stockholders have approved the Plan. If such stockholder approval is not obtained at or before the first annual meeting of stockholders to occur after the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Plan and any Awards made thereunder shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
Effective Date
 
ab initio
(b)
 
No Awards may be made under the Plan after the date that is five yearsfrom the date of shareholder approval.
Term of Plan.
 
4.     Stock Subject to Plan.
(a)
 
. The total number of Shares that may be delivered pursuant toAwards shall be 125,000,000 as calculated pursuant to Section 4(c). The number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan shall be adjusted as provided in Section 4(b). Shares delivered under the Plan may be authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares that Morgan Stanley acquires in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise.
Overall Plan Limit
 
(b)
 
. In the event of a stock split, reverse stock split,stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, extraordinary dividend or distribution, split-up, spin-off, combination, reclassification or exchange of shares, warrants or rights offering to purchase Stock at a price substantially below Fair Market Value or other change in corporate structure or any other event that affects Morgan Stanleys capitalization, the Committee shall equitably adjust (i) the number and kind of shares authorized for delivery under the Plan, including the maximum number of Shares available for Awards of Options or SARs as provided in Section 4(d) and the maximum number of Incentive Stock Options as provided in Section 4(e), and (ii) the number and kind of shares subject to any outstanding Award and the exercise or purchase price per share, if any, under any outstanding Award. In the discretion of the Committee, such an adjustment may take the form of a cash payment to a Participant. The Committee shall make all such adjustments, and its determination as to what adjustments shall be made, and the extent thereof, shall be final. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, such
Adjustments for Certain Transactions
 
3
 
adjusted Awards shall be subject to the same vesting schedule and restrictions to which the underlying Award is subject.
(c)
 
. In calculating the number of Shares thatremain available for delivery pursuant to Awards at any time, the following rules shall apply (subject to the limitation in Section 4(e)):
Calculation of Shares Available for Delivery
 
1.
 
The number of Shares available for delivery shall be reduced by the number of Shares subject to an Award and, in the case of an Award that is not denominated in Shares, the number of Shares actually delivered upon payment or settlement of the Award.
2.
 
The number of Shares tendered (by actual delivery or attestation) or withheld from an Award to pay the exercise price of the Award or to satisfy any tax withholding obligation or liability of a Participant shall be added back to the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards.
3.
 
The number of Shares in respect of any portion of an Award that is canceled or that expires without having been paid or settled by the Company shall be added back to the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards to the extent such Shares were counted against the Shares available for delivery pursuant to clause (1).
4.
 
If an Award is settled or paid by the Company in whole or in part through the delivery of consideration other than Shares, or by delivery of fewer than the full number of Shares that was counted against the Shares available for delivery pursuant to clause (1), there shall be added back to the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards the excess of the number of Shares that had been so counted over the number of Shares (if any) actually delivered upon payment or settlement of the Award.
5.
 
Any Shares underlying Substitute Awards shall not be counted against the number of Shares available for delivery pursuant to Awards and shall not be subject to Section 4(d).
(d)
 
. The maximum number of Shares that may besubject to Options or SARs granted to or elected by a Participant in any fiscal year shall be 2,000,000 Shares. The limitation imposed by this Section 4(d) shall not include Options or SARs granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 162(m) Performance Goals.
Individual Limit on Options and SARs
 
(e)
 
. The full number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan may bedelivered pursuant to Incentive Stock Options, except that in calculating the number of Shares that remain available for Awards of Incentive Stock Options the rules set forth in Section 4(c) shall not apply to the extent not permitted by Section 422 of the Code.
ISO Limit
 
5.     Administration.
(a) . The Committee shall administer the Plan and shall have full power and authority to make all determinations under the Plan, subject to the express provisions hereof, including without limitation: (i) to select Participants from among the Eligible Individuals; (ii) to make Awards; (iii) to determine the number of Shares subject to each Award or the cash amount payable in connection with an Award; (iv) to establish the terms and
Committee Authority Generally
4
conditions of each Award, including, without limitation, those related to vesting, cancellation, payment, exercisability, and the effect, if any, of certain events on a Participants Awards, such as the Participants termination of employment with the Company; (v) to specify and approve the provisions of the Award Documents delivered to Participants in connection with their Awards; (vi) to construe and interpret any Award Document delivered under the Plan; (vii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and procedures relating to the Plan; (viii) to make all determinations necessary or advisable in administering the Plan and Awards, including without limitation determinations as to whether (and if so as of what date) a Participant has commenced, or has experienced a termination of, employment; , , that to the extent full or partial payment of any Award that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A is made upon or as a result of a Participants termination of employment, the Participant will be considered to have experienced a termination of employment if, and only if, the Participant has experienced a separation from service with the Participants employer for purposes of Section 409A; (ix) to vary the terms of Awards to take account of securities law and other legal or regulatory requirements of jurisdictions in which Participants work or reside or to procure favorable tax treatment for Participants; and (x) to formulate such procedures as it considers to be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
provided
however
(b)
 
. To the extent not prohibited by applicable laws or rules of the New YorkStock Exchange, the Committee may from time to time delegate some or all of its authority under the Plan to one or more Administrators consisting of one or more members of the Committee as a subcommittee or subcommittees thereof or of one or more members of the Board who are not members of the Committee or one or more officers of the Company (or of any combination of such persons). Any such delegation shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Committee specifies at the time of such delegation or thereafter. The Committee may at any time rescind all or part of the authority delegated to an Administrator or appoint a new Administrator. At all times, an Administrator appointed under this Section 5(b) shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Committee. Any action undertaken by an Administrator in accordance with the Committees delegation of authority shall have the same force and effect as if undertaken directly by the Committee, and any reference in the Plan to the Committee shall, to the extent consistent with the terms and limitations of such delegation, be deemed to include a reference to an Administrator.
Delegation
 
(c)
 
. The Committee shall have full power andauthority, subject to the express provisions hereof, to construe and interpret the Plan.
Authority to Construe and Interpret
 
(d)
 
. All of the Committees determinations in carrying out,administering, construing and interpreting the Plan shall be made or taken in its sole discretion and shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons. In the event of any disagreement between the Committee and an Administrator, the Committees determination on such matter shall be final and binding on all interested persons, including any Administrator. The Committees determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Documents, as to
Committee Discretion
 
5
 
the persons receiving Awards under the Plan, and the terms and provisions of Awards under the Plan.
(e) . Subject to applicable law: (i) no member of the Committee or any Administrator shall be liable for anything whatsoever in connection with the exercise of authority under the Plan or the administration of the Plan except such persons own willful misconduct; (ii) under no circumstances shall any member of the Committee or any Administrator be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee or an Administrator; and (iii) in the performance of its functions with respect to the Plan, the Committee and an Administrator shall be entitled to rely upon information and advice furnished by the Companys officers, the Companys accountants, the Companys counsel and any other party the Committee or the Administrator deems necessary, and no member of the Committee or any Administrator shall be liable for any action taken or not taken in good faith reliance upon any such advice.
No Liability
6.
 
Eligible Individuals shall include all officers, other employees (includingprospective employees) and consultants of, and other persons who perform services for, the Company, non-employee directors of Subsidiaries and employees and consultants of joint ventures, partnerships or similar business organizations in which Morgan Stanley or a Subsidiary has an equity or similar interest. Any Award made to a prospective employee shall be conditioned upon, and effective not earlier than, such persons becoming an employee. Members of the Board who are not Company employees will not be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan. An individuals status as an Administrator will not affect his or her eligibility to receive Awards under the Plan.
Eligibility.
 
7.
 
An Award of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the terms andconditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. Restricted Stock may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
Restricted Stock.
 
8.
 
An Award of Stock Units shall be subject to the terms and conditionsestablished by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. Each Stock Unit awarded to a Participant shall correspond to one Share. Upon satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the Award, a Stock Unit will be payable, at the discretion of the Committee, in Stock or in cash equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of one Share. As a holder of Stock Units, a Participant shall have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of Morgan Stanley. A Participant shall not be a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying Stock Units unless and until the Stock Units convert to Shares. Stock Units may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
Stock Units.
 
9.  
Options.
(a) . An Award of Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. The Committee shall establish (or shall authorize the method for establishing) the exercise price of all Options awarded under the Plan, except that the exercise
Options Generally
6
 
price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exercise price of an Option that is a Substitute Award may be less than the Fair Market Value per Share on the Award Date, provided that such substitution complies with applicable laws and regulations, including the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and Section 409A or Section 424, as applicable, of the Code. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to exercisability of the Award, a Participant shall be entitled to exercise the Options included in the Award and to have delivered, upon Morgan Stanleys receipt of payment of the exercise price and completion of any other conditions or procedures specified by Morgan Stanley, the number of Shares in respect of which the Options shall have been exercised. Options may be either nonqualified stock options or Incentive Stock Options. Options and the Shares acquired upon exercise of Options may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
(b)
 
. Anything in the Plan to the contrarynotwithstanding, the terms of an Option shall not provide that a new Option will be granted, automatically and without additional consideration in excess of the exercise price of the underlying Option, to a Participant upon exercise of the Option.
Prohibition on Restoration Option Grants
 
(c)
 
. Anything in the Plan to the contrarynotwithstanding, the Committee may not reprice any Option or SAR. Reprice means any action that constitutes a repricing under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Prohibition on Repricing of Options and SARs
 
(d)
 
. Subject to the provisions of the applicable AwardDocument and to the extent authorized by rules and procedures of Morgan Stanley from time to time, the exercise price of the Option may be paid in cash, by actual delivery or attestation to ownership of freely transferable Shares already owned by the person exercising the Option, or by such other means as Morgan Stanley may authorize.
Payment of Exercise Price
 
(e)
 
. No Option or SAR shall have anexpiration date that is later than the tenth anniversary of the Award Date thereof.
Maximum Term on Stock Options and SARs
 
An Award of SARs shall be subject to the terms and conditions established bythe Committee in connection with the Award and specified in the applicable Award Document. The Committee shall establish (or shall authorize the method for establishing) the exercise price of all SARs awarded under the Plan, except that the exercise price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exercise price of any SAR that is a Substitute Award may be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Award Date, subject to the same conditions set forth in Section 9(a) for Options that are Substitute Awards. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to the payment of the Award, each SAR shall entitle a Participant to an amount, if any, equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over the SAR exercise price specified in the applicable Award Document. At the discretion of the Committee, payments to a Participant upon exercise of an SAR may be made in Shares, cash or a combination thereof. SARs and the Shares that may be acquired upon exercise of SARs may, among other things, be subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
10. SARs.
 
7
 
11.
 
 
The Committee shall have the authority to establish the terms andprovisions of other forms of equity-based or equity-related Awards (such terms and provisions to be specified in the applicable Award Document) not described above that the Committee determines to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan and the interests of the Company, which Awards may provide for (i) cash or Stock payments based in whole or in part on the value or future value of Stock or on any amount that Morgan Stanley pays as dividends or otherwise distributes with respect to Stock, (ii) the acquisition or future acquisition of Stock, (iii) cash or Stock payments (including payment of dividend equivalents in cash or Stock) based on one or more criteria determined by the Committee unrelated to the value of Stock, or (iv) any combination of the foregoing. Awards pursuant to this Section 11 may, among other things, be made subject to restrictions on transfer, vesting requirements or cancellation under specified circumstances.
Other Awards.
 
12.  
General Terms and Provisions.
(a)
 
. Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made insubstitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation payable to an Eligible Individual. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by the Committee, an Eligible Individual may elect one form of Award in lieu of any other form of Award, or may elect to receive an Award in lieu of all or part of any compensation that otherwise might have been paid to such Eligible Individual; , , that any such election shall not require the Committee to make any Award to such Eligible Individual. Any such substitute or elective Awards shall have terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of the Plan applicable to such Award. Awards may be granted in tandem with, or independent of, other Awards. The grant, vesting or payment of an Award may, among other things, be conditioned on the attainment of performance objectives, including without limitation objectives based in whole or in part on net income, pre- tax income, return on equity, earnings per share, total shareholder return or book value per share.
Awards in General
 
provided
however
(b)
 
. All grants of Awards and deliveries of Shares, cash or otherproperty under the Plan shall constitute a special discretionary incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be required to be taken into account in computing the amount of salary, wages or other compensation of the Participant for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of the Company or other benefits from the Company or under any agreement with the Participant, unless Morgan Stanley specifically provides otherwise.
Discretionary Awards
 
(c)
 
. If Morgan Stanley pays any dividend or makes anydistribution to holders of Stock, the Committee may in its discretion authorize payments (which may be in cash, Stock (including Restricted Stock) or Stock Units or a combination thereof) with respect to the Shares corresponding to an Award, or may authorize appropriate adjustments to outstanding Awards, to reflect such dividend or distribution. The Committee may make any such payments subject to vesting, deferral, restrictions on transfer or other conditions. Any determination by the Committee with respect to a Participants entitlement to receive any amounts related to dividends or distributions to holders of Stock, as well as the terms and conditions of such entitlement, if any, will be part of the terms and conditions of the Award, and will be included in the Award Document for such Award.
Dividends and Distributions
 
8
 
(d)
 
. In accordance with the procedures authorized by, and subject to theapproval of, the Committee, Participants may be given the opportunity to defer the payment or settlement of an Award to one or more dates selected by the Participant. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Committee shall set forth in writing (which may be in electronic form), on or before the date the applicable deferral election is required to be irrevocable in order to meet the requirements of Section 409A, the conditions under which such election may be made.
Deferrals
 
(e)
 
. The terms and conditions of an Award shallbe set forth in an Award Document authorized by the Committee. The Award Document shall include any vesting, exercisability, payment and other restrictions applicable to an Award (which may include, without limitation, the effects of termination of employment, cancellation of the Award under specified circumstances, restrictions on transfer or provision for mandatory resale to the Company).
Award Documentation and Award Terms
 
(f)
 
. Except for Options and SARs the sharesunderlying which are counted against the individual limit set forth in Section 4(d), all Awards to Section 162(m) Participants shall be made pursuant to the attainment of Section 162(m) Performance Goals as certified by the Committee in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. Without any further action by the Board or the Committee, this Section 12(f) shall cease to apply on the effective date of the repeal of Section 162(m) of the Code (and any successor provision thereto).
Awards to Section 162(m) Participants
 
13.   Certain Restrictions.
(a)
 
No Participant (or other persons having rights pursuant to anAward) shall have any of the rights of a stockholder of Morgan Stanley with respect to Shares subject to an Award until the delivery of the Shares, which shall be effected by entry of the Participants (or other persons) name in the share register of Morgan Stanley or by such other procedure as may be authorized by Morgan Stanley. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4(b) or 12(c), no adjustments shall be made for dividends or distributions on, or other events relating to, Shares subject to an Award for which the record date is prior to the date such Shares are delivered. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of an Employee Trust may authorize some or all Participants to give voting or tendering instructions to the trustee thereof in respect of Shares that are held in such Employee Trust and are subject to Awards. Except for the risk of cancellation and the restrictions on transfer that may apply to certain Shares (including restrictions relating to any dividends or other rights) or as otherwise set forth in the applicable Award Document, the Participant shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares delivered to the Participant in connection with an Award and, upon such delivery shall be entitled to all rights of ownership, including, without limitation, the right to vote the Shares and to receive cash dividends or other dividends (whether in Shares, other securities or other property) thereon.
Stockholder Rights.
 
(b)
 
. No Award granted under the Plan shall be transferable, whethervoluntarily or involuntarily, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; provided that, except with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the Committee may permit transfers on such terms and conditions as it shall determine. During the lifetime of a Participant
Transferability
 
 
9
to whom Incentive Stock Options were awarded, such Incentive Stock Options shall be exercisable only by the Participant.
14.
 
The Committee may condition the grant,exercise, settlement or retention of any Award on the Participant making any representations required in the applicable Award Document. Each Award shall also be conditioned upon the making of any filings and the receipt of any consents or authorizations required to comply with, or required to be obtained under, applicable law.
Representation; Compliance with Law.
 
15.  
Miscellaneous Provisions.
(a)
 
. As a condition to the making or retention of any Award,the vesting, exercise or payment of any Award or the lapse of any restrictions pertaining thereto, Morgan Stanley may require a Participant to pay such sum to the Company as may be necessary to discharge the Companys obligations with respect to any taxes, assessments or other governmental charges (including FICA and other social security or similar tax) imposed on property or income received by a Participant pursuant to the Award or to satisfy any obligation that the Participant owes to the Company. In accordance with rules and procedures authorized by Morgan Stanley, (i) such payment may be in the form of cash or other property, including the tender of previously owned Shares, and (ii) in satisfaction of such taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or, exclusively in the case of an Award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A of other obligations that a Participant owes to the Company, Morgan Stanley may make available for delivery a lesser number of Shares in payment or settlement of an Award, may withhold from any payment or distribution of an Award or may enter into any other suitable arrangements to satisfy such withholding or other obligation. To the extent an Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company may not offset from the payment of such Award amounts that a Participant owes to the Company with respect to any such other obligation except to the extent such offset is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause a Participant to recognize income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of the Award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A.
Satisfaction of Obligations
 
,
(b)
 
. Neither the Plan nor any Award shall give rise toany right on the part of any Participant to continue in the employ of the Company.
No Right to Continued Employment
 
(c)
 
. The headings of sections herein are included solely for convenience ofreference and shall not affect the meaning of any of the provisions of the Plan.
Headings
 
(d)
 
. The Plan and all rights hereunder shall be construed in accordancewith and governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to any conflicts or choice of law, rule or principle that might otherwise refer the interpretation of the award to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.
Governing Law
 
(e)
 
. The Board or Committee may modify, amend,suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part at any time and may modify or amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award (including by amending or supplementing the relevant Award Document at any time); provided, however, that no such modification, amendment,
Amendments and Termination
 
10
 
suspension or termination shall, without a Participants consent, materially adversely affect that Participants rights with respect to any Award previously made; and provided, further, that the Committee shall have the right at any time, without a Participants consent and whether or not the Participants rights are materially adversely affected thereby, to amend or modify the Plan or any Award under the Plan in any manner that the Committee considers necessary or advisable to comply with any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision, accounting standards, regulatory guidance or other legal requirement. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, neither the Board nor the Committee may accelerate the payment or settlement of any Award, including, without limitation, any Award subject to a prior deferral election, that constitutes a deferral of compensation for purposes of Section 409A except to the extent such acceleration would not result in the Participant incurring interest or additional tax under Section 409A. No amendment to the Plan may render any Board member who is not a Company employee eligible to receive an Award at any time while such member is serving on the Board. To the extent required by applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, amendments to the Plan shall not be effective unless they are approved by Morgan Stanleys stockholders.
 
 
 
11
 
 


