FILE:MS/MS-8K-20090508141723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On May 8, 2009, Morgan Stanley (the Company) announced the exercise of the over-allotment option granted to the underwriters in connection with the Companys public offering of $3.5 billion of common stock.  A copy of the Companys press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 
 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Morgan Stanley Announces Exercise of Over-Allotment Option for Total Capital Raise of $8 Billion
NEW YORK, May 8, 2009  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today announced it has exercised its over-allotment option to purchase an additional 21.9 million shares of its common stock at $24.00 per share. The option was granted in connection with the company's equity capital raising of 146 million shares of its common stock, which priced earlier today.  Morgan Stanley expects gross proceeds from the equity and debt offerings, including the exercise of the over-allotment option, to be approximately $8 billion.
The significant demand for our equity and debt offerings is a testament to the power of the Morgan Stanley franchise, said John Mack, CEO of Morgan Stanley.  As we prepare to close the Smith Barney deal, these successful offerings will allow us to maintain some of the strongest capital levels in the industry.
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 36 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit
www.morganstanley.com
.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these shares of common stock in any jurisdiction in which such an offer, solic
itation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
# # #
 
 


