FILE:MS/MS-8K-20090310163059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
_________________________
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On March 10, 2009, the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (the Company) increased the number of directors on the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) from 11 to 12 and elected Mr. Nobuyuki Hirano to the Board.  Mr. Hirano was designated for nomination to the Board by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) pursuant to the Investor Agreement between the Company and MUFG dated as of October 13, 2008 and amended as of October 27, 2008 (the Investor Agreement).  Mr. Hirano is currently a Director of MUFG and a Senior Managing Director of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of MUFG.
As previously disclosed, under the Securities Purchase Agreement between the Company and MUFG dated as of September 29, 2008 and amended as of October 13, 2008, the Company issued and sold to MUFG 7,839,209 shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock and 1,160,791 shares of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion.  Under the Investor Agreement, the Company agreed to take all lawful action to cause one of MUFGs senior officers or directors to be a member of the Board within ten business days following the date of notice to the Company from MUFG for so long as MUFG beneficially owns at least 10% of the outstanding common stock of the Company on a fully diluted basis.  Mr. Hiranos election to the Board is consistent with these terms.
In connection with MUFGs investment in the Company, the Company and MUFG announced their intent to enter into a global strategic alliance and have identified areas of potential collaboration for such alliance, including corporate and investment banking, certain areas of retail banking and asset management, and lending activities such as corporate and project-related loans.
At the present time, Mr. Hirano will not receive any compensation for serving as a director.
The Companys related press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Nobuyuki Hirano Elected to Morgan Stanley Board of Directors
 
 
NEW YORK, March 10, 2009  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) announced today that Nobuyuki Hirano will be joining its Board of Directors as the director nominated by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG), Japans largest financial group and the worlds second largest bank holding company.  In October 2008, MUFG made a $9 billion equity investment in Morgan Stanley as part of a global strategic alliance.
 
Mr. Hirano is a Director of MUFG and a Senior Managing Director of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., which is the core commercial banking unit of MUFG.  Over the course of his career, Mr. Hirano has held numerous senior level positions in Japan and abroad with the financial group since joining The Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd. in 1974.
 
John J. Mack, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley, said, Mr. Hirano brings significant international banking experience and will play an integral role with Morgan Stanley and MUFG as we pursue strategic opportunities across both firms.  His broad experience in banking will be a great asset to our Board and Firm as we continue to build our franchise.
 
Laura DAndrea Tyson, Chair of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee, said, We are honored and fortunate to welcome Mr. Hirano to the Morgan Stanley Board of Directors.  His global leadership and financial services experience will be most valuable to the Board and Firm and underscore Morgan Stanleys commitment to being a worldwide leader in finance.  We look forward to working with Mr. Hirano on our Board.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range
of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firms employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 37 countries.  For furt
h
er information about Morgan Stanley, please visit
www.morganstanley.com
.
 


