FILE:MS/MS-8K-20090602130338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On June 2, 2009, Morgan Stanley (the Company) announced the launch and pricing of a public offering of approximately $2.2 billion in common equity to satisfy a supervisory condition to enable it to redeem TARP (Troubled Asset Relief Program) preferred capital. A copy of the Companys press releases containing each of these announcements are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Morgan Stanley Announces $2.2 Billion Public Offering of Common Equity
 
NEW YORK, June 2, 2009  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) announced today that it intends to raise $2.2 billion in common equity to satisfy a supervisory condition to enable it to redeem TARP (Troubled Asset Relief Program) preferred capital.  While approval for repayment has not been granted, Morgan Stanley believes that upon completion of this capital raise it will have satisfied the criteria for fully redeeming the TARP preferred capital and expects to redeem it before the end of June.  The offering is expected to include China Investment Corporation and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated will serve as the bookrunner for the offering.  The underwriter will have a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 5 percent of the offered amount of common stock from Morgan Stanley to cover over-allotments, if any.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 36 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit .
www.morganstanley.com
 
Morgan Stanley has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Morgan Stanley has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Morgan Stanley and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, Morgan Stanley, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-718-1649.
 
# # #

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Morgan Stanley Announces Pricing of $2.2 Billion Common Stock Offering
 
 
NEW YORK, June 2, 2009  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today announced that it has priced a public offering of approximately 80.2 million shares of common stock to the public at $27.44 per share for total gross proceeds of approximately $2.2 billion.  The underwriter will have a 30-day option to purchase approximately up to an additional 4.0 million shares of common stock from Morgan Stanley.
 
China Investment Corporation has agreed to purchase 44.7 million shares of common stock at the public offering price.  In addition, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) has agreed to purchase 16.0 million shares of common stock at the public offering price.  The closing of the MUFG purchase will occur a few days after the closing of the public offering upon the effectiveness of the registration of the offering with the Financial Services Agency of Japan.
 
While approval for repayment has not been granted, Morgan Stanley believes that upon completion of this capital raise it will have satisfied the criteria for fully redeeming the TARP preferred capital and expects to redeem it before the end of June.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 600 offices in 36 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit .
www.morganstanley.com
 
Morgan Stanley has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Morgan Stanley has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Morgan Stanley and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, Morgan Stanley, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-866-718-1649.
 
 
 


