FILE:MS/MS-8K-20090622152224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
______________________
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 18, 2009, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Morgan Stanley (the Company) increased the number of directors on the Board from 12 to 13 and elected James H. Hance, Jr. to the Board, effective July 1, 2009.  The Board determined that Mr. Hance is independent in accordance with the director independence standards established under the Companys Corporate Governance Policies.  The election of Mr. Hance brings the number of independent directors on the Board from 10 to 11.  No committee assignments for Mr. Hance have been determined at the time of this filing.
Mr. Hance will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Companys non-employee director compensation practices described in the Companys Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 25, 2009; provided, however, that, the initial equity award to be received by Mr. Hance will be pro-rated from the date of appointment to the last day of the month immediately preceding the Companys next annual meeting of stockholders.
The Companys related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
information about Morgan Stanley, please visit .
www.morganstanley.com
 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
   
o
Senior Advisor (2008)
o    Senior Advisor & Chairman, Carlyle Capital Corporation Ltd. (2007)    
o    Senior Advisor, Financial Services
o    Vice Chairman
o    CFO
o    EVP & Chief Administrative Officer
o    Chairman & Co-Owner
o    Partner (1979)
o    Various Roles
CURRENT BOARD AFFILIATIONS
 
FORMER BOARD AFFILIATIONS
 
EDUCATION


