FILE:MS/MS-8K-20100311162644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On March 9, 2010, the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (the Company) approved amendments (the Amendments) to the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the Bylaws).
Section 2.02 concerning special meetings of stockholders was amended to permit stockholders of record owning at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the voting power of the outstanding capital stock of the Company (excluding shares as to which the holder would not have the right to vote or has transferred any of the economic consequences of ownership) to request a special meeting.
Section 2.04 and Section 2.07 were also amended to make conforming changes.
The foregoing description of the Amendments does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bylaws, as amended, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Item 9.01             Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)          Exhibits
Exhibit
                   
Number
Description
3.1                            Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended to date.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:
March 11, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
As Amended March 9, 2010
 
SECTION 1.01.  Delaware Office.  The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
SECTION 1.02.  Other Offices.  The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
SECTION 2.01.  Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such date, place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.02.  Special Meeting.
(a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the Preferred Stock) or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors or pursuant to Section 2.02(b) and may not be called by any other person.
(b)(i) A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the Secretary of the Corporation at the written request or requests (each, a Special Meeting Request and, collectively, the Special Meeting Requests) of holders of record Owning (as defined below) at least 25% of the voting power of the outstanding capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting (the Requisite Percentage).  A Special Meeting Request shall be signed and dated by each stockholder of record (or a duly authorized agent of such stockholder) requesting the special meeting (each, a Requesting Stockholder), shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, shall comply with Section 2.02 and shall include (A) a statement of the specific purpose or purposes of the special meeting, (B) the information specified in Section 2.07(a)(ii) including, without limitation, the information required by the final sentence thereof at the time provided for therein, (C) an acknowledgement by the Requesting Stockholders and the beneficial owners (as defined below), if any, on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request(s) are being made that such Special Meeting Request shall be deemed to be revoked if such Requesting Stockholders do not Own at least the Requisite Percentage at all times between the date on which such Special Meeting Request is delivered to the Secretary and the date of the special meeting and (D) documentary evidence that the Requesting Stockholders Own at least the Requisite Percentage as of the date of such written request to the Secretary; , , that if the Requesting Stockholders are not the beneficial owners of the shares representing the Requisite Percentage, then to be valid, the Special
provided
however
 
 
Meeting Request(s) must also include documentary evidence (or, if not simultaneously provided with the Special Meeting Request(s), such documentary evidence must be delivered to the Secretary within 10 business days after the date on which the Special Meeting Request(s) are delivered to the Secretary) that the beneficial owners on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request(s) are made Own the Requisite Percentage as of the date on which such Special Meeting Request(s) are delivered to the Secretary.  In addition, the Requesting Stockholders and the beneficial owners, if any, on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request(s) are being made shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.
For purposes of this Section 2.02 and for determining the Requisite Percentage, a stockholder of record or a beneficial owner, as the case may be, shall be deemed to Own the shares of capital stock of the Corporation that such stockholder or, if such stockholder is a nominee, custodian or other agent that is holding the shares on behalf of another person (the beneficial owner), that the beneficial owner would be deemed to own pursuant to Rule 200(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), excluding any shares as to which such stockholder or beneficial owner, as the case may be, does not have the right to vote or direct the vote at the Special Meeting or as to which such stockholder or beneficial owner, as the case may be, has entered into a derivative or other agreement, arrangement or understanding that hedges or transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, any of the economic consequences of ownership of such shares.  The terms Owned, Owning and other variations of the word Own shall have correlative meanings.  Whether shares are Owned for these purposes shall be decided by the Board of Directors in its reasonable determination.
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.02, a special meeting requested by stockholders shall not be held if (A) the Special Meeting Request does not comply with this Section 2.02, (B) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper matter for stockholder action, (C) the Special Meeting Request is received by the Corporation during the period commencing 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting and ending on the date of the next annual meeting, (D) an annual or special meeting of stockholders that included an identical or substantially similar item of business (Similar Business) was held not more than 120 days before the Special Meeting Request was received by the Secretary, (E) the Board of Directors has called or calls for an annual or special meeting of stockholders to be held within 90 days after the Special Meeting Request is received by the Secretary and the business to be conducted at such meeting includes Similar Business or (F) the Special Meeting Request was made in a manner that involved a violation of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act or other applicable law.  For purposes of this Section 2.02(b)(ii), the nomination, election or removal of directors shall be deemed to be Similar Business with respect to all items of business involving the nomination, election or removal of directors, changing the size of the Board of Directors and filling of vacancies and/or newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or removal of directors.  The Board of Directors shall determine in good faith whether the requirements set forth in this Section 2.02 have been satisfied.
(iii) In determining whether a special meeting of stockholders has been requested by the record holders Owning shares representing in the aggregate at least the Requisite Percentage, multiple Special Meeting Requests delivered to the Secretary will be considered together only if (A) each Special Meeting Request identifies substantially the same purpose or purposes of the special meeting and substantially the same matter or matters proposed to be acted on at the special meeting (in each case as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) and (B) such Special Meeting Requests have been dated and delivered to the Secretary within 60 days of the earliest dated Special Meeting Request.  A Requesting
 
2
 
Stockholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary and if, following such revocation, there are outstanding un-revoked requests from Requesting Stockholders holding less than the Requisite Percentage, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cancel the special meeting.  If none of the Requesting Stockholders appears or sends a duly authorized agent to present the business to be presented for consideration that was specified in the Special Meeting Request, the Corporation need not present such business for a vote at such special meeting.
(c) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporations notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04.  Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Board of Directors from submitting matters to the stockholders at any special meeting requested by stockholders.
(d) Special meetings shall be held at such date and time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors in accordance with these Amended and Restated Bylaws; , , that in the case of a special meeting requested by stockholders, the date of any such special meeting shall not be more than 90 days after a Special Meeting Request that satisfies the requirements of this Section 2.02 is received by the Secretary.
provided
however
SECTION 2.03.  Place of Meeting.  The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders.  If no designation is made by the Board of Directors, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation, which will be 1585 Broadway, New York, New York.
SECTION 2.04.  Notice of Meeting.  A notice of meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or, to the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, electronically, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting.  Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law.  Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders called at the direction of the Board of Directors may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
SECTION 2.05.  Quorum and Adjournment.  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business.  The Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business).  No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law.  The stockholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
3
 
SECTION 2.06.  Proxies.  At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy as may be permitted by law; provided, that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  Any proxy to be used at a meeting of stockholders must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting.
SECTION 2.07.  Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
(a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.07(a) and who was a stockholder of record on the date such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.
(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 2.07, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and, in the case of business other than nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than thirty days, or delayed by more than ninety days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.07(a). Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and if such business includes a proposal to amend the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation, the text of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (2) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (3) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal between or among such stockholder and such
 
4
 
beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, (4) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owners, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner, with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, (5) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (6) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.  The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 2.07 shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of the stockholder's intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting.  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation and the impact that such service would have on the ability of the Corporation to satisfy the requirements of laws, rules, regulations and listing standards applicable to the Corporation or its directors. The information required above under clauses (a)(ii)(C)(2), (3) and (4) of this Section 2.07 shall be supplemented by such stockholder and any such beneficial owner not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such information as of the record date.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of clause (ii) of this Section 2.07(a) to the contrary, if the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased effective at the annual meeting and the public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships is not made by the close of business on the one hundredth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.07 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new directorships created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b) Special Meetings of Stockholders.
Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock, nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which the election of directors is included in the business to be conducted pursuant to the Corporations notice of meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.07 and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.  The proposal by stockholders of other business to be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders may be made only in accordance with Section 2.02 of this Article 2.  If the Corporation calls a special meeting of the stockholders at which the election of directors is included in the business to be conducted, any stockholder entitled to vote in such election may nominate such number of persons for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's Notice of Meeting, if the stockholder's notice as required by clause (ii) of Section 2.07(a)
 
5
 
of these Amended and Restated Bylaws shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting is first made by the Corporation.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c) General.
(i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.02 and this Section 2.07.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.02 and this Section 2.07 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (or is part of a group which solicited) did or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (a)(ii)(C)(6) of this Section 2.07) and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with Section 2.02 or this Section 2.07, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 2.02 and this Section 2.07, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.  For purposes of this Section 2.07, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(ii) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 2.02 and this Section 2.07, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in Section 2.02 and this Section 2.07; provided, however, that any references in these Amended and Restated Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements (including paragraphs (a)(i)(C) and (b) of this Section 2.07) applicable to stockholder nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to Section 2.02 or this Section 2.07 and compliance with paragraphs
 
6
 
(a)(i)(C) and (b) of this Section 2.07 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit proposals for any other business to be considered at an annual or special meeting of stockholders (other than, as provided in the third to last sentence of (a)(ii), matters brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, as may be amended from time to time, and other than, in the case of a special meeting, in accordance with Section 2.02).  Nothing in this Section 2.07 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
SECTION 2.08.  Procedure For Election of Directors; Voting.  Except as otherwise provided by law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of that class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon.
The vote on any matter, including the election of directors, shall be by written ballot.  Each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder's proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
SECTION 2.09.  Inspector of Elections; Opening and Closing of Polls; Conduct of Meetings.
(a)  The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be directors, officers or employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof.  One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.  The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(b)  The Chairman of the Board shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.
(c)  The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate.  Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.  Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation,
 
7
 
their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants.  The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
SECTION 2.10.  Confidential Stockholder Voting.  All proxies, ballots and votes, in each case to the extent they disclose the specific vote of an identified stockholder, shall be tabulated and certified by an independent tabulator, inspector of elections and/or other independent parties and shall not be disclosed to any director, officer or employee of the Corporation; provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any and all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations may be disclosed: (a) as necessary to meet legal requirements or to assist in the pursuit or defense of legal action; (b) if the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots or votes; (c) in the event of a proxy, consent or other solicitation in opposition to the voting recommendation of the Board of Directors; and (d) if the stockholder requests, or consents to disclosure of the stockholder's vote or writes comments on the stockholder's proxy card or ballot.
SECTION 3.01.  General Powers.  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors.  In addition to the powers and authorities by these Amended and Restated Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these Amended and Restated Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
SECTION 3.02.  Number, Tenure and Qualifications. (a)  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors ("Preferred Stock Directors") under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, but shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors (exclusive of Preferred Stock Directors).  However, no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
(b)  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3.02, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the tenth day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast.  For purposes of this Section 3.02, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the
 
8
 
number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
(c)  In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, provided that such resignation shall be effective if (i) that person shall not receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) the Board of Directors shall accept that resignation in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose.  In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the nominating and governance committee of the Board of Directors, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 3.09 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken.  The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within 90 days following certification of the election results.
(d)  If the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 3.02, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to ARTICLE VII of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.02.
SECTION 3.03.  Regular Meetings.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the Board of Directors and in the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
SECTION 3.04.  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a majority of the Board of Directors.  The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all special meetings of the Board of Directors and in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary, a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
SECTION 3.05.  Notice.  Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his business or residence not later than three days before the day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such places by telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or subject to Section 8.01 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, be communicated to each director personally or by telephone (including without limitation to a representative of the director or to the director's electronic voice message system), not later than the day before such day of meeting.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Amended and Restated Bylaws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof.  A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present (except as otherwise provided by law) or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting.
 
9
 
 
SECTION 3.06.  Action Without Meeting.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
SECTION 3.07.  Conference Telephone Meetings.  Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
SECTION 3.08.  Quorum.  At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of directors specified in the resolution pursuant to Section 3.02 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships (such total number of Directors, the "entire Board of Directors") shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  At all meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors, the presence of 50% or more of the total number of members (assuming no vacancies or unfilled newly created committee positions) shall constitute a quorum.  The vote of a majority of the directors or committee members present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws.  If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee, a majority of the directors or members, as the case may be, present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting.
SECTION 3.09.  Committees.  (a)  The Corporation shall have four standing committees:  the nominating and governance committee, the audit committee, the risk committee and the compensation, management development and succession committee.  Each such standing committee shall consist of such number of directors of the Corporation and shall have such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
(b)  In addition, the Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, with each such committee consisting of such number of directors of the Corporation and having such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
(c)  All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and authority pursuant to these Amended and Restated Bylaws and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with the terms hereof shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or conferred under authority of the Board of Directors.  The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such committee is binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the Corporation.
(d)  Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors or the committee in question and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such resolution.  A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of
 
10
 
the Board of Directors, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon the request of the chairman or a majority of the members of such committee.  Notice of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws.
SECTION 3.10.  Committee Members.  (a)  Each member of any committee of the Board of Directors shall hold office until such member's successor is elected and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed.
(b)  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as a result of a member or chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal or otherwise.
SECTION 3.11.  Committee Secretary.  Each committee may elect a secretary for such committee.  Unless otherwise determined by the committee, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings and special meetings of the committee, and in the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.
SECTION 3.12.  Compensation.  The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid compensation as director, lead director or chairman of any committee and for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors.  Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation and payment of expenses for attending committee meetings.
SECTION 4.01.  General.  The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board; a Chief Executive Officer; a President; a Chief Financial Officer; a Chief Risk Officer; a Chief Legal Officer; a Chief Administrative Officer; a Chief Operating Officer; one or more Executive Vice Presidents; a Secretary; one or more Assistant Secretaries; a Treasurer; one or more Assistant Treasurers; a Controller; and such other officers as in the judgment of the Board of Directors may be necessary or desirable, including one or more Vice Chairmen; one or more Senior Vice Presidents; and one or more Vice Presidents.  All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article 4. Such officers shall also have powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof.  Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws.  The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders or directors of the Corporation, except that the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer shall be members of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.02.  Election and Term of Office.  The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders.  If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient.  Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or be removed.
 
11
 
SECTION 4.03. Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors may elect from among its members an officer designated as the Chairman of the Board, but the appointment of a Chairman of the Board shall not be required. If a Chairman of the Board shall be elected, then the Chairman of the Board shall have such duties and authority as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time. In general the Chairman of the Board shall perform all duties incident to the position of chairman of the board or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws from time to time. The Chairman of the Board, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and at all meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation.  In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, the duties of the Chairman of the Board (including presiding at all meetings of the Board of Directors and at all meetings of the Corporation) shall be performed and the authority of the Chairman of the Board may be exercised by a director designated for this purpose by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.04.  Chief Executive Officer.  The Chief Executive Officer shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall be an officer of the Corporation.  The Chief Executive Officer shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation's business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.05.  President.  The President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.  The office of President may, at any time and from time to time, be held by one or more persons.  If the office of President is held by more than one person, each person holding such office shall serve as a Co-President and each Co-President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
 
SECTION 4.06.  Chief Operating Officer.  The Chief Operating Officer shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
SECTION 4.07.  Chief Financial Officer.  The Chief Financial Officer shall have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall exercise supervisory responsibility for the performance of the duties of the Treasurer and the Controller.  The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
 
12
 
SECTION 4.08.  Chief Risk Officer.  The Chief Risk Officer shall have the responsibility for the risk management and monitoring of the Corporation. The Chief Risk Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
SECTION 4.09.  Chief Legal Officer.  The Chief Legal Officer shall have responsibility for the legal affairs of the Corporation.  The Chief Legal Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
SECTION 4.10.  Vacancies.  A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the terms at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 5.01.  Stock Certificates and Transfers.  (a)  The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates representing shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares.  Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or the President or any Vice President or by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.
(b)  The shares of the stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates representing the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require.  Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Corporation.  Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or, unless otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
SECTION 5.02.  Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.  No certificate for shares or uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or its designee may in its or his discretion require.
 
13
 
SECTION 6.01.  Fiscal Year.  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as specified by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 6.02.  Dividends.  The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
SECTION 6.03.  Seal.  The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors or by any officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 6.04.  Waiver of Notice.  Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or any meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
SECTION 6.05.  Audits.  The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant.
SECTION 6.06.  Resignations.  Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the Corporation.
SECTION 6.07.  Indemnification and Insurance.
(a)  Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed claim, action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or a director or elected officer of a Subsidiary, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereafter in effect, and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided however, that the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to enforce such person's claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this
 
14
 
Bylaw.  The Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred by such person in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon receipt (unless the Corporation upon authorization of the Board of Directors waives such requirement to the extent permitted by applicable law) of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Bylaw or otherwise.
(b)  The indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, other provision of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise.  No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to, arising out of or related to any event, act or omission that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, modification, amendment or adoption (regardless of when any proceeding (or part thereof) relating to such event, act or omission arises or is first threatened, commenced or completed).
(c)  The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(d)  The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other than a director or officer) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(e)  The Corporations obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount such person shall collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
(f)  If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph or clause of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable)
 
15
 
shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(g)  For purposes of these Amended and Restated Bylaws:
(1)  "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2)  "Subsidiary" means any corporation, trust, limited liability company or other non-corporate business enterprise in which the Corporation directly or indirectly holds ownership interests representing (A) more than 50% of the voting power of all outstanding ownership interests of such entity (other than directors' qualifying shares, in the case of a corporation) or (B) the right to receive more than 50% of the net assets of such entity available for distribution to the holders of outstanding ownership interests upon a liquidation or dissolution of such entity.
(h)  Any notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary or the Chief Legal Officer or any designee of the Secretary or the Chief Legal Officer and shall be effective only upon receipt by such officer or designee.
SECTION 7.01.  Contracts.  Except as otherwise required by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct.  Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine.  Subject to the control and direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Treasurer may enter into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes, contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation.  Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors, such officers of the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
SECTION 7.02.  Proxies.  Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such vote or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
 
16
 
SECTION 8.01.  Amendments.  These Amended and Restated Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof; provided however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated Bylaws is contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board of Directors and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting.
 
 17
 


