FILE:MS/MS-8K-20101025094443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 19, 2010, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Morgan Stanley (the Company) increased the number of directors on the Board from 12 to 13 and elected James W. Owens to the Board, effective January 1, 2011.  The Board determined that Mr. Owens is independent in accordance with the director independence standards established under the Companys Corporate Governance Policies.  The election of Mr. Owens brings the number of independent directors on the Board from 9 to 10.  Mr. Owens will become a member of the Nominating and Governance Committee, effective January 1, 2011.
Mr. Owens will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Companys non-employee director compensation practices described in the Companys Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 12, 2010.
The Companys related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Morgan Stanley Elects New Director, Enhancing Boards Corporate Management and Economic Expertise
 
James W. Owens to Join Board in January 2011
 
 
NEW YORK, October 25, 2010  Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today announced that James W. Owens has been elected to the firms Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2011.  This will bring the size of the Board to 13 members.
 
Mr. Owens, 64, served as Chairman and CEO of Caterpillar Inc. from 2004 to June 2010 and is serving as Chairman through October 2010. Throughout his nearly four decades at Caterpillar, Mr. Owens held numerous positions including Group President, Vice President and CFO, and President of Solar Turbines.  During his career he lived and worked in Europe and Asia.  He is a member of President Obamas Economic Recovery Advisory Board; immediate past Chairman of the Business Council; and a director at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, DC, as well as the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.  Mr. Owens currently serves on the boards of Alcoa Inc. and IBM Corporation.  He holds a Ph.D. in Economics from North Carolina State University.
 
James Gorman, President and CEO of Morgan Stanley, said, Jim is an outstanding addition to our Board as we continue to pursue disciplined execution in all of our businesses within a new regulatory landscape.  His management experience and economic expertise will be an asset to the Morgan Stanley franchise.
 
Laura DAndrea Tyson, Chair of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee, said, We are very pleased to welcome Mr. Owens to the Board.  We look forward to the insight
 
 
 
 
 
and experience he will bring as we focus on positioning Morgan Stanley for continued success.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 1,300 offices in 42 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit www.morganstanley.com.
 
 
 
 
 


