FILE:MS/MS-8K-20100602091845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 28, 2010, Morgan Stanley and Invesco Ltd. () entered into a letter agreement (the ) amending the Transaction Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Invesco dated October 19, 2009 (the ).  The Amendment provided that the consideration payable to Morgan Stanley by Invesco in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Agreement would be $800 million in cash and approximately 30.9 million shares of Invesco preferred and common stock, whereas the Agreement originally provided for consideration consisting of $500 million in cash and approximately 44.1 million shares of Invesco preferred and common stock.
Invesco
Amendment
Agreement
On June 1, 2010, Morgan Stanley completed its previously announced sale of its retail asset management business including Van Kampen Investments Inc. to Invesco for the consideration provided for by the Amendment and described above in Item 1.01.  Morgan Stanleys equity interest in Invesco as a result of this sale consists of common and preferred shares representing in the aggregate approximately 7.1% of Invescos outstanding equity.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements about the expected effects, timing, benefits, financial and operating results, synergies and cost savings related to the transaction and all other statements in this Current Report, other than historical facts, constitute forward-looking statements.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and which reflect current estimates, projections and expectations.  Any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected or anticipated.  These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.  There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of Morgan Stanley, including: (1) the risks associated with transactions of this nature, (2) the impact of general economic and industry conditions, (3) adverse changes in the stock markets, the public debt markets and other capital markets, (4) changes in investor participation in the markets, (5) the risks of market fluctuations of Invesco common stock, (6) the impact of the transaction on Invescos common stock, (7) the impact of changes in accounting standards, rules or interpretations and (8) the impact of political conditions in the U.S. and abroad both generally and as they pertain to financial services companies specifically.  The actual results or performance and expected benefits of the transaction could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements.  Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of Morgan Stanley.  For a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of Morgan Stanley, please see Morgan Stanleys periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on www.sec.gov.
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
2.1Letter Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Invesco Ltd. dated May 28, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
May 28, 2010
In connection with the Transaction Agreement (as amended from time to time, the ) dated as of October 19, 2009, between Invesco Ltd., a Bermuda company (), and Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (), each of Buyer and Seller hereby agrees as follows:
Agreement
Buyer
Seller
 means $800,000,000.
Aggregate Cash Consideration
[]
Signature page follows
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this letter agreement to be signed by their respective authorized representatives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


