FILE:MS/MS-8K-20100122163918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers. 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee (the CMDS Committee) of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (the Company),
The
in response to shareholder input and in light of the environment in which the Company is operating, has fundamentally restructured year-end compensation for the Companys employees  instituting a strengthened clawback provision, creating at-risk performance units tied to three-year performance for senior executives, increasing deferred compensa
tion and reducing cash bonuses.
For 2009, Chairman and former CEO John J. Mack recommended to the CMDS Committee that he receive no year-end bonus, given the unique operating environment and government support for the industry this past year.  M
r. 
Mack also received no year-end compensation for 2008 and 2007.  CEO James P. Gorman recommended to the CMDS Committee that he be paid no cash bonus for 2009, and the CMDS Committee decided that any 2009 year-end award for Mr. Gorman would be paid only in deferred compensation.  Mr. Gorman received no year-end compensation for 2008.  The CMDS Committee also decided to substantially increase the share of compensation that is deferred  with Operating Committee members receiving approximately 75 percent of year-end pay in deferred compensation.
As a result of the structural changes the CMDS Committee has made to Morgan Stanleys compensation program, year-end compensation for senior executives for 2009, except as noted below for our CEO, is comprised of four components  with a significant portion of total compensation at-risk and tied to long-term Company performance:
At-Risk Performance-Based Stock Unit Program
The CMDS Committee, in response to shareholder feedback, has approved an at-risk performance-based stock unit program under the Companys 2007 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2007 EICP) in order to tie executive compensation even more closely to the Companys long-term financial performance.  Under this program, performance stock units will vest and convert to shares of Company common stock in 2013 only if the Company satisfies predetermined performance goals over the next three years.  Participants will receive no portion of the award if the performance targets are not met.  Any shares received upon conversion of these performance stock units will be subject to the 75% stock ownership commitment for senior executives.  These at-risk performance stock units will be awarded to the Companys named executive officers listed below, our current Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (collectively, the Officers), but not to the Chairman of the Board, John J. Mack, who received no year-end compensation for 2009.
The purpose of this grant is to further reinforce the Officers accountability for the Companys future financial and strategic goals by tying a greater portion of compensation directly to certain of the Companys core financial metrics  return on equity and total shareholder return.  A portion of the Officers 2009 above-base compensation was paid with these at-risk performance stock units.  In the event that the Company does not achieve the specified minimum performance levels under the award, the Officer will forfeit his or her entire award.
 
The following target number of at-risk performance stock units, rounded down to the nearest whole share, were awarded to the executive officers reflected below:
The award is at risk and the Officer will not earn any portion of the award if the Company does not achieve specified minimum performance levels during the three-year performance period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2012 (the Performance Period).  Further, if the Company exceeds the target performance hurdles, the Officer can potentially earn an award with a number of units in excess of the target number, as described below.  Under the terms of the grant, the number of at-risk performance stock units that will actually vest and convert to shares will be based on the extent to which the Company achieves the specified performance goals during the Performance Period (subject to the other terms and conditions of the award), as described below.  The CMDS Committee must certify the extent to which the performance goals are achieved before the Officer can earn all or a portion of the award.
One-half of the award will be earned based on the Companys return on average common shareholders equity, excluding the impact of debt valuation adjustments (Average ROE) during the Performance Period, as follows (based on the number of stock units granted with respect to this portion of the award):
 representing the change in fair value of certain short-term and long-term borrowings, including structured notes and subordinated debentures, accounted for under the fair value option, that is included in net income and is attributable to changes in the Companys own debt-related credit spreads 
 
 
 
One half of the award will be earned based on the Companys total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the TSR of the members of the comparison group consisting of Bank of America, Barclays, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, UBS and Wells Fargo (the Comparison Group).  The number of at-risk performance stock units earned based on this measure will be determined in accordance with the following grid (based on the number of stock units granted with respect to this portion of the award):
Except as described below, the at-risk performance stock units will not vest and convert until following the end of the Performance Period and then, only to the extent the foregoing performance measures are satisfied.  To the extent the Officer voluntarily terminates from the Company prior to January 1, 2013 (the scheduled vesting date), other than due to full career retirement, none of the units will vest and the entire award will be forfeited.  In certain instances of a termination of the Officers employment prior to January 1, 2013, including due to: (i) full career retirement (defined in a similar manner as for purposes of the Officers 2009 year-end equity awards), if the Officer, other than the CEO if he resigns for good reason (as defined in his award certificate), does not engage in competitive activity, (ii) involuntary termination not involving a cancellation event or (iii) a disability, a pro rata portion of the at-risk performance stock units will vest and convert to shares following the conclusion of the Performance Period once the CMDS Committee certifies to the performance.  If an Officers employment terminates due to full career retirement during the second half of the Performance Period (and the Officer, other than the CEO if he resigns for good reason, does not engage in competitive activity), the full award will vest and convert to shares following the conclusion of the Performance Period once the CMDS Committee certifies to the performance.  In the event of a change in control of the Company, performance will be measured through the last day of the Companys quarter preceding the change in control.  The at-risk performance stock units remain subject to cancellation upon certain events until conversion. The awards will receive dividend equivalents in cash which will accumulate and pay out, if at all, when the underlying shares are paid to the Officers.  Further, in the event the CMDS Committee later determines that all or a portion of the shares earned under the award was based on materially inaccurate financial statements, then such number of shares (or cash equivalent if the shares were transferred) shall be subject to clawback by the Company.
The CMDS Committee also approved a new base salary for our newly elected Chief Financial Officer, Ruth Porat, of $750,000, consistent with the Companys Operating Committee members, other than the CEO.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


