FILE:MS/MS-8K-20110113163131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain
Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 13, 2011, Morgan Stanley announced that Kenneth M. deRegt, currently Chief Risk Officer, will become the Global Head of Fixed Income Sales and Trading (ex Commodities), and will no longer be the Chief Risk Officer.  Keishi Hotsuki, currently Head of the Market Risk Department, will become Interim Chief Risk Officer.
Item 8.01. Other Events
On January 13, 2011, Morgan Stanley also announced other changes in the responsibilities of members of its senior management team.
A  message to employees from James Gorman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley, regarding senior management changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this filing by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:    January 13, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
A Message from James Gorman Regarding Senior Management Changes
In recent weeks, we have announced a number of changes in the responsibilities of members of our senior management team to ensure we best leverage our leadership talent to build on our momentum across the Firm.  Today, I want to share with you the final set of changes in this management realignment.
After successfully steering the integration of the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney JV over the past two years, Charlie Johnston has informed me of his desire to retire from the Firm at the end of 2011 and spend more time on family and charitable pursuits. With the integration on track and the return of the retail investor to the markets, driving increased client activity Charlie believes it is the right time to make this change. Therefore, Charlie will become Vice Chairman of MSSB for the next year, where he will be focused on building and strengthening relationships with key financial advisors and wealth management clients, while continuing to support the senior leadership team of MSSB through this transition period. Charlie has been an extraordinary contributor in guiding the historic MSSB merger. His leadership of MSSB has been critical to the integration and early success of the JV  which has been the most recent chapter in a highly distinguished career in financial services that has spanned more than three decades. We look forward to Charlie's continued advice and counsel over the next year as we build the best global wealth management business. 
Greg Fleming will become President of Global Wealth Management, while continuing to lead our Asset Management business.  Greg has made great progress realigning the asset management business over the past year - establishing a strong management team and focusing our strategy on Morgan Stanleys historic strengths. I am confident that under Gregs ongoing leadership of MSIM, we will continue to see tangible progress toward our goal of building a leading asset management business.
 
I believe Greg is also ideally suited now to build on the tremendous momentum in our wealth management business. He brings vast experience and a proven record of leadership to this role. In order to best leverage our Global Research franchise with our institutional equity clients, Global Research, led by Linda Reifler and Juan Luis Perez, will now report into the Equity Division. 
 
As we have said many times, a big driver of our future success will be the continued build out of our sales and trading platform and in particular, our strategy and footprint in fixed income. While we have started to see some progress, there is more we can do to ensure the best execution of the strategy.  I'm very pleased to announce that Chief Risk Officer, Ken deRegt, will become Global Head of Fixed Income Sales and Trading (ex commodities) reporting to Colm Kelleher.  Ken had a long and highly successful record of accomplishment leading Morgan Stanleys global fixed income business in the 1990s and more recently, as Chief Risk Officer, has substantially strengthened the Firms risk function.  As our CRO, Ken has been a source of wisdom, outstanding judgment and market knowledge.
Ken first joined Morgan Stanley in 1981, and over the following 20 years served in a variety of roles, including Global Head of Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities and as a member of the Management Committee. His responsibilities within the fixed-income businesses included U.S. Government Securities trading, U.S. Treasury primary dealer, and European Fixed Income trading and risk management.  Ken is a proven leader with superb experience in fixed income, capital markets and risk management that make him the ideal person to help the Firm realize
 
 
 
 
 
the potential of the additional resources we have put in place in our fixed income business over the past year. Given Ken's stature, successful track record and significant experience, I have asked him to stay on the Operating Committee as he takes on this new role.
Jack iMaio, Global Head of Interest Rate, Credit and Currency Trading, has decided to leave the Firm and return to the buy side, where he worked for six years prior to joining Morgan Stanley in 2009. In the last 18 months, Jack contributed greatly to the progress in IRCC by making many key hires and establishing an aggressive strategy for growth. We appreciate the numerous contributions Jack has made as we have worked to build this important business. We wish him well and look forward to working with him as a client in the future.
D
With Ken assuming this new role, Keishi Hotsuki, who has worked closely with Ken as Head of Market Risk, will assume the position of interim Chief Risk Officer.  Keishi is a seasoned risk management professional with over 20 years of experience. In the months ahead, we will conduct a search for a new Chief Risk Officer.  This search will evaluate both internal and external candidates to ensure we have a world-class risk manager in this critically important role.
 
These changes complete the important series of organizational moves at the Operating Committee level that have taken place in the past few weeks. We believe we have the right people in the right roles to build on our current momentum, and I hope you will join me in congratulating these individuals along with the other members of our management team who have assumed new or expanded roles in 2011.
 
 


