FILE:MS/MS-8K-20110630141414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into Material Definitive Agreement
As previously disclosed, on April 21, 2011, Morgan Stanley (the ) and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. () entered into a transaction agreement pursuant to which MUFG agreed to convert all of its shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (the ) into common stock of the Company.
Company
MUFG
Series B Preferred Stock
On June 30, 2011 the Company and MUFG completed the conversion, whereby MUFG received 385,464,097 shares of the Companys common stock, including approximately 75 million shares resulting from the adjustment to the conversion ratio pursuant to the transaction agreement.  As a result of the adjustment to the conversion ratio, the Company will incur a one-time, non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the three and six month periods ending on June 30, 2011.  As a result of the conversion, MUFG will not receive the previously declared dividend that would otherwise have been payable on July 15, 2011 in respect of the Series B Preferred Stock.
In connection with the conversion, also on June 30, 2011, the Company and MUFG entered into a second amendment to the Investor Agreement dated as of October 13, 2008 between the Company and MUFG (the ).  Pursuant to the Amended Investor Agreement, the Company granted MUFG the right to designate a second member to the Companys Board of Directors (in lieu of the board observer rights to which MUFG was previously entitled).  This right will terminate upon MUFGs owning less than 20% of the Companys common stock on a primary basis for a period of six consecutive months (in which case MUFG will once again become entitled to designate one director and one board observer until such time as MUFG owns less than 10% of the Companys common stock on a fully diluted basis).  In addition, among other things, the Amended Investor Agreement (i) contains amendments to the standstill and preemptive rights provisions to reflect MUFGs increased ownership of the Companys common stock as a result of the conversion and (ii) extends the date on which MUFGs preemptive rights expire to October 13, 2013.
Amended Investor Agreement
In connection with MUFGs investment in the Company in October 2008, the Company and MUFG have established a global strategic alliance, which includes a
securities joint venture in Japan, other
corporate and investment banking initiatives, and lending activities.
The description of the Amended Investor Agreement contained herein does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended Investor Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
-ii
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED INVESTOR AGREEMENT (this ), by and between Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (the ), and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., a joint stock company organized under the laws of Japan (the ), dated as of June 30, 2011.
Agreement
Company
Investor
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Investor have entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, dated September 29, 2008 and amended by the First Amendment to Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2008, the Second Amendment to Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 8, 2008 and the Third Amendment to Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2008 (such Securities Purchase Agreement, as so amended and as it may be further amended from time to time, the ), pursuant to which the Investor purchased and acquired from the Company, and the Company issued and sold to the Investor, (i) shares of the 10% Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share of the Company (the ), which is convertible into shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share of the Company (the ), and (ii) shares of the 10% Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share of the Company, (together with Series B Preferred Stock, );
Purchase Agreement
Series B Preferred Stock
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Investor have entered into the Transaction Agreement dated as of April 21, 2011 (the ) and the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the closing of the transactions contemplated therein;
Transaction Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Investor are parties to that certain Investor Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2008 and amended by the First Amendment to Investor Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2008 (the Investor Agreement, as so amended, the ); and
Investor Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Investor have determined to further amend and restate the Investor Agreement as set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective representations, warranties, covenants and conditions contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
Section 1.1  .  In addition to other terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement, as used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
Definitions
 
 or  means, with respect to a specified Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the specified Person (as used in this definition, the term  means the possession, directly or
Affiliate
affiliate
control
 
 
 
 
 
indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise).
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the preamble hereto.
Agreement
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the Transaction Agreement.
Applicable Law
 
 shall mean, with respect to any securities, having beneficial ownership of such securities for purposes of Rule 13d-3 or 13d-5 under the Exchange Act as in effect on the date hereof, and  shall have the corresponding meaning.
Beneficially Own
Beneficial Ownership
 
 shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
 shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in New York City or in Tokyo, Japan, or any other day on which commercial banks in New York City or in Tokyo, Japan are authorized or required by law or government decree to close.
Business Day
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the Purchase Agreement.
Closing Date
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the recitals hereto.
Common Stock
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the preamble hereto.
Company
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
Company Proprietary Information
 
 shall mean any Affiliate of the specified Person that is, directly or indirectly, controlled (as defined in the definition of Affiliate) by the specified Person.
Controlled Affiliate
 
 shall mean Common Stock and any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock that are not Excluded Securities.
Covered Securities
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in Section 5.2(a).
Designated Securities
 
 shall mean any member of the Board.
Director
 
 shall mean, calculated at any particular point in time, the ratio, expressed as a percentage, of (x) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the Investor at the relevant time (for purposes of this definition, treating the Series B Preferred Stock as fully converted into the underlying Common Stock) to (y) the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the relevant time, on a Fully Diluted Basis.
Economic Interest Percentage
 
 shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any successor federal statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, all as amended, and as the same may be in effect from time to time.
Exchange Act
 
 
-2-
 
 
 shall mean any securities that are (i) issued by the Company pursuant to any employment contract, employee or benefit plan, stock purchase plan, stock ownership plan, stock option or equity compensation plan or other similar plan whereby stock is being issued or offered to a trust, other entity or otherwise, to or for the benefit of any employees, potential employees, officers or directors of the Company, (ii) issued by the Company in connection with a business combination or other merger, acquisition or disposition transaction, (iii) issued with reference to the common stock of a subsidiary (e.g., a carve-out transaction), (iv) issued in connection with a dividend investment or stockholder purchase plan or (v) issued upon the conversion, exchange or exercise of any security or right or purchase obligation outstanding as of the date hereof in accordance with its terms as such terms exist as of the date hereof.
Excluded Securities
 
 shall mean based on the total number of shares of the relevant class of stock or type of equity interest that would be outstanding on the relevant date assuming the exercise of all options, warrants and other rights or obligations (including purchase contracts) to acquire such relevant class of stock or type of equity interest (without regard to exercisability, vesting or similar provisions and restrictions thereof) and the conversion or exchange of all securities convertible into or exchangeable for stock or equity interest (without regard to exercisability, vesting or similar provisions and restrictions thereof).
Fully Diluted Basis
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the Purchase Agreement.
Governmental Entity
 
 shall mean, in respect of the Common Stock, to enter into any swap or any other agreement, transaction or series of transactions that hedges or transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of such Common Stock, whether any such transaction, swap or series of transactions is to be settled by delivery of securities, in cash or otherwise.
Hedge
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the preamble hereto.
Investor
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3.1(a).
Investor Director
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3.1(a).
Investor Nominee
 
 shall mean, as of any date, the percentage equal to (i) the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock Beneficially Owned by the Investor (treating the Series B Preferred Stock and any other securities of the Company convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock that are Beneficially Owned by the Investor or its Affiliates as fully converted into or exercised or exchanged for the underlying Common Stock) divided by (ii) the total number of outstanding shares of Common Stock (treating (x) the Series B Preferred Stock and any other securities of the Company convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock that are Beneficially Owned by the Investor or its Affiliates as fully converted into or exercised or exchanged for the underlying Common Stock and (y) all shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion or exercise or exchange of any other then outstanding securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock, to the
Investor Percentage Interest
 
 
-3-
 
 
extent such other securities are Covered Securities sold in a Qualified Offering, as having been issued).
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.
Investor Proprietary Information
 
 shall be deemed to have occurred if, at the close of any Business Day following the Closing Date, the Investors Economic Interest Percentage is less than 10%.
Investor Rights Termination Event
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3.1(b).
Nominee Disclosure Information
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in Section 3.1(f).
Observer
 
 shall mean a legal person, including any individual, corporation, company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, limited liability company or unincorporated association or any other entity or organization, including a government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in Section 5.6.
Preemptive Rights Expiration Date
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the recitals hereto.
Preferred Stock
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.2(b).
Private Placement
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.12.
Process Agent
 
 shall have the meaning assigned in the recitals hereto.
Purchase Agreement
 
 shall mean a public or nonpublic offering of Covered Securities for cash, and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include all Covered Securities issued in respect of such offering pursuant to the exercise of preemptive rights.
Qualified Offering
 
 shall mean the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2008, as amended by the amendment dated April 21, 2011.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
 shall mean the Purchase Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement.
Related Agreements
 
 shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
 shall mean shares of Common Stock and Preferred Stock.
Securities
 
 
-4-
 
 
 shall mean the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, and any similar or successor federal statute, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, all as amended, and as the same may be in effect from time to time.
Securities Act
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.
Standstill Period
 
 shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares of the voting stock or other voting interests of which are owned or controlled, or the ability to select or elect more than fifty percent (50%) of the directors or similar managers is held, directly or indirectly, by such first Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such first Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries.  A Subsidiary that is directly or indirectly wholly owned by another Person except for directors qualifying shares shall be deemed wholly owned for the purposes of this Agreement.
Subsidiary
 
 shall mean the closing provided for in Section 2.01 of the Transaction Agreement.
Transaction Agreement Closing Date
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Transfer
 
 
Section 2.1  .   The Company represents and warrants to the Investor as of the date hereof as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
(a)           The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(b)           This Agreement and all transactions and obligations contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the Company.
 
(c)           This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization and valid execution and delivery by the Investor, is a valid and legally binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights.
 
Section 2.2  .   The Investor represents and warrants to the Company as of the date hereof as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Investor
 
(a)           The Investor has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite power
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(b)           This Agreement and all transactions and obligations contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the Investor.
 
(c)           This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Investor and, assuming due authorization and valid execution and delivery by the Company, is a valid and legally binding obligation of the Investor, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors rights.
 
 
Section 3.1 .  (a)  Until an Investor Rights Termination Event, the Company shall take all lawful action to cause the number (specified in subsection (e) of this Section 3.1) of the Investors senior officers or directors designated by the Investor in writing to the Company (each, an ) who satisfy any applicable regulatory requirements applicable to directors or director nominees to the Board to be members of the Board (each such Investor Nominee elected to the Board, an ).  If the Investor is entitled pursuant to this Article III to designate one Investor Director, the Investor may designate one Investor Director to be appointed as a member of such committees of the Board as the Investor may designate, subject to any applicable legal or stock exchange requirements and except as necessary to maintain best practices in corporate governance regarding such appointment.  If the Investor is entitled pursuant to this Article III to designate two Investor Directors, the Investor may designate each of the Investor Directors to be appointed as a member of such committees of the Board as the Investor may designate, provided that only one such Investor Director may be appointed to each committee of the Board, subject to any applicable legal or stock exchange requirements and except as necessary to maintain best practices in corporate governance regarding such appointment.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Company acknowledges that each Investor Director shall be entitled to vote on all matters in his or her discretion.  Moreover, the Company acknowledges that each Investor Director, in his or her capacity as such, will have the same access as other directors to management and other directors with respect to matters relating to the operation, financial and all other policies of the Company and the ability to participate in the processes by which those policies are made.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Investor Director shall have the same ability as other directors to attend (in his or her capacity as a director) all meetings of committees of the Board, including the Audit, Nominating/Governance, Compensation Committees and the newly constituted Global Operations and Technology Committee.  For purposes of this Section 3.1, Investor shall mean Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., notwithstanding any Transfer to a Controlled Affiliate.
Board of Directors
Investor Nominee
Investor Director
 
(b)           Until an Investor Rights Termination Event, at any annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company at which Directors are to be elected (and at which a seat held by an Investor Director is subject to election), the Company shall, provided the Investor shall have complied with the immediately succeeding sentence of this paragraph (b), renominate
 
 
-6-
 
 
each such Investor Director, or nominate another Investor Nominee or other Nominees designated by the Investor in writing to be elected to the Board, and shall use its best efforts to cause such person(s) to be elected to such position.  The Investor shall notify the Company of its proposed nominee(s) to the Board, in writing, no later than the latest date on which stockholders of the Company may make nominations to the Board in accordance with the bylaws of the Company, together with all information concerning such nominee(s) reasonably requested by the Company, so that the Company can comply with applicable disclosure rules (the ); that in the event the Investor fails to provide any such notice, the Investor Nominee(s) shall be the person(s) then serving as the Investor Director(s) as long as the Investor provides the Nominee Disclosure Information to the Company promptly upon request by the Company.
Nominee Disclosure Information
provided
 
(c)           In the event of the death, disability, resignation or removal of an Investor Director, the Board will promptly elect to the Board an Investor Nominee to fill the resulting vacancy, which such individual shall then be deemed an Investor Director for all purposes hereunder.
 
(d)           All obligations of the Company pursuant to this Section 3.1 shall terminate, and the Investor shall cause the Investor Director(s) to resign from the Board, immediately upon the occurrence of an Investor Rights Termination Event.
 
(e)           Until the first time at which the Investor Percentage Interest has been less than 20% for a period of six consecutive months, the Investor shall continue to have the right to designate two Investor Nominees pursuant to Section 3.1(a). From such date until an Investor Rights Termination Event, the Investor shall have the right to designate one Investor Nominee pursuant to Section 3.1(a).
 
(f)           From the first date on which (x) the Investor Percentage Interest has been less than 20% for a period of six consecutive months and (y) only one Investor Director is a member of the Board until an Investor Rights Termination Event, the Company shall permit one senior officer or director of the Investor designated by the Investor in writing to the Company (the ) to attend each physical and telephonic meeting of the Board as an observer and the Observer shall have the same ability as the directors to attend any committee of the Board as an observer, including the Audit, Nominating/Governance, Compensation Committees and the newly constituted Global Operations and Technology Committee. The Company shall cause the Observer to be furnished with all information generally provided to the Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Observer shall not participate in any meeting or receive any materials (1) if the Investor Director has recused himself or herself because he or she is reasonably likely to have a conflict of interest with respect to the subject matter of the meeting or any portion of the meeting or (2) to the extent but only to the extent that the Observers attendance or receipt of such materials is, in the opinion of the Companys counsel, reasonably likely to adversely affect the existence of legal privilege.  Such Observer shall not be entitled to vote at any Board meeting or receive any compensation or reimbursement of expenses from the Company for services as an observer, and shall not participate in executive sessions of the Board.  In the event of the death,
Observer
 
 
-7-
 
 
disability, resignation or removal of the Observer, the Investor will promptly designate another senior officer or director of the Investor to serve as the Observer.
 
Section 3.2  .  The Investor agrees to cause each share of Common Stock Beneficially Owned by it that is entitled to vote in any election for Directors to be present in person or represented by proxy at all meetings of stockholders of the Company, so that all such shares shall be counted as present for determining the presence of a quorum at such meetings.   The provisions of this Section 3.2 shall not apply at any time that the Company is not in compliance with its obligations under Section 3.1 or following the occurrence of an Investor Rights Termination Event.
Voting
 
Section 3.3  .   During the Standstill Period (as defined in Section 3.4), the Investor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Affiliates to, without the prior written consent of the Company:
Standstill Restrictions
 
 
 
 
-8-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Company acknowledges that the Investor may provide guidance and participate with respect to matters relating to the Companys business, including operational and financial policies.  It is understood between the Company and Investor that (A) the Investor is entitled to exercise the voting rights with respect to the Securities in its discretion (and without regard to the recommendation of the Board or management of the Company), (B) the Investor may privately or publicly propose that the Board or the Company take actions that the Investor supports or refrain from taking actions that the Investor opposes and (C) the Investor may publicly state its position with regard to proposals made by other stockholders and vote in favor of or against proposals made by other stockholders (and without regard to the recommendation of the Board with respect thereto.
 
The restrictions on the Investor contained in this Section 3.3 shall not apply at any time that the Company is not in compliance with its obligations under Section 3.1.
 
Section 3.4  .    shall mean the period from the date hereof until the earlier of (i) October 13, 2013, and (ii) the occurrence of an Investor Rights Termination Event; , that the parties shall, prior to the expiration of the
Standstill Period
Standstill Period
provided, however
 
 
-9-
 
 
Standstill Period, discuss in good faith whether to extend the Standstill Period (with no obligation to extend).  In addition, the Standstill Period shall be suspended, and the restrictions of Section 3.3 shall not apply, upon the failure of any Investor Nominee to be elected to the Board within 60 calendar days following any annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Company at which an Investor Nominee stood for election but was nevertheless not elected, that the Standstill Period shall resume and the restrictions of Section 3.3 shall apply, from and after the date that such Investor Nominee (or an alternate designated by the Investor) is elected or appointed to the Board.
provided
 
Section 3.5  .   The Company shall cooperate with the Investor to provide such information as is necessary to and to take and an Investor Director hereunder and (iii) such Investor Director as the Investor may designate pursuant to Section 3.1(a) shall be appointed to the newly constituted Global Operations and Technology Committee.  So long as the Investor is entitled pursuant to this Article III to designate two Investor Directors, the Company agrees to maintain a Board having at least 14 members, provided that the size of the Board may temporarily be less than 14 members for a reasonable period of time necessary to fill any temporary vacancy on the Board.  In the event that the Company and the Investor have not entered into the written agreement or agreements referred to in Section 5.01(d)(i) of the Transaction Agreement on or prior to the Transaction Agreement Closing Date, then the Company and the Investor shall further cooperate with each other and use their respective reasonable best efforts to enter such an agreement or agreements promptly thereafter.  The Company and the Investor shall cooperate for the purpose of complying with the disclosure and other regulatory requirements that will, or will continue to, apply under Applicable Law (including the Exchange Act, the Banking Act of Japan and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder).
Cooperation
such action from time to time as may be  necessary for the Investor to apply the equity method of accounting for its investment in the Company.  At the first scheduled meeting of the Board after the Transaction Agreement Closing Date, (i) the number of directors on the Board shall be increased by one, (ii) the Board will elect to the Board a senior officer or director of the Investor to be designated by the Investor in writing to the Company who satisfies any applicable regulatory requirements applicable to directors or director nominees to the Board to be a member of the Board
 
 
Section 4.1  .  (a)  Prior to October 13, 2011, the Investor shall not, within any period of three months, offer, sell, pledge or otherwise transfer ()  Securities or Hedge its direct or indirect exposure to Common Stock, in one transaction or a series of transactions involving Securities, having an aggregate value exceeding $2.5 billion, in each case, other than (i) to a Controlled Affiliate that agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement as if it were the Investor hereunder or (ii) as may be required by order or decree of any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the Investor or in the reasonable discretion of the Investor to comply with any applicable statute, rule or regulation.  In the event that prior to October 13, 2011, any Person who was a transferee pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence ceases to be a Controlled Affiliate of Investor, then any prior Transfer to such Person
Transfer Restrictions
Transfer
 
 
-10-
 
 
 
pursuant to clause (i) shall become null and void and ownership and title to any such securities so Transferred shall revert to Investor.  The Investor shall immediately notify the Company if it engages in any of the transactions referred to in this Section 4.1.
 
(b)           At any time during which Investor is permitted to Transfer any Securities, the Investor shall not, without prior approval of the Board, knowingly Transfer such Securities to any one Person (or group of related Persons) if such Transfer would result in such Person (or group of related Persons) Beneficially Owning in excess of 5% the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock.  The foregoing shall not apply to Transfers (i) consisting only of block trades executed at prevailing market prices obtainable at the time of such Transfer through brokers in transactions on the NYSE, that the transferor does not know or have reason to believe that such Transfer would result in such Person (or group of related Persons) Beneficially Owning in excess of 5% of the then-outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (ii) effected through widely distributed public offerings.
provided
 
(c)           The Investors rights under this Agreement will not be transferable to any transferee of any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, other than a transferee that is and remains a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Investor.
 
(d)           Any certificates for Securities issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement or issued upon conversion or exchange of Securities or issued in respect of any transfer of Securities shall bear a legend or legends (and appropriate comparable notations or other arrangements will be made with respect to any uncertificated shares) referencing restrictions on transfer of such shares under the Securities Act and under this Agreement; , that the holder of any certificate(s) bearing any such legend (or any uncertificated shares subject to such notations or arrangements) shall be entitled to receive from the Company new certificates for a like number of Securities not bearing such legend (or the elimination or termination of such notations or arrangements) upon the request of such holder and upon (x) such time as such restriction is no longer applicable, and (y) delivery of an opinion of counsel to such holder, which opinion is reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Company and its counsel, that the restriction referenced in such legend (or such notations or arrangements) is no longer required in order to ensure compliance with the Securities Act.
provided
 
(e)           Nothing in this Section 4.1 (other than Section 4.1(b)) shall restrict Investor from Transferring, and the Investor is hereby permitted to Transfer, any Securities in order to reduce the number of Securities owned by it below 24% of a class of voting stock of the Company, as calculated for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the ).  If at any time the Company reduces the number of shares of its Common Stock outstanding, it shall use reasonable best efforts to notify the Investor promptly if the Investor would own a number of Securities exceeding 24% of a class of voting stock of the Company, as calculated for purposes of the BHCA.  For purposes of such calculation, the Company shall be permitted to rely on the number of shares of Common Stock reported as Beneficially Owned by the Investor in its most recent Schedule 13D filing with the SEC.
BHCA
 
 
-11-
 
 
Section 5.1 .  If the Company offers to sell Covered Securities in a Qualified Offering, the Investor shall be afforded the opportunity to acquire from the Company, for the same price and on the same terms as such Covered Securities are offered, in the aggregate up to the amount of Covered Securities required to permit the Investors Investor Percentage Interest immediately after giving effect to the issuance of such Covered Securities (including the issuance of Covered Securities pursuant to this Section 5.1) to be equal to the Investors Investor Percentage Interest immediately prior to the issuance of any such Covered Securities, but only to the extent that the Investor Percentage Interest does not as a consequence exceed 22.4% ( that if such limitation would result in the Investor being limited to an Economic Interest Percentage of less than 20%, then such limitation shall instead be equal to the lesser of (x) an Economic Interest Percentage of 20% and (y) an Investor Percentage Interest of 24.9%).  For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that the issuance of Covered Securities in a Qualified Offering involves the purchase of a package of securities that includes Covered Securities and other securities in the same Qualified Offering, Investor shall have the right to acquire a pro rata portion of such other securities, together with a pro rata portion of such Covered Securities, at the price and on the terms that such other securities are purchased by the other purchaser or purchasers of such Covered Securities and other securities and, if the Investor chooses to acquire Covered Securities pursuant to this Section 5.1, it shall also acquire a pro rata portion of such other securities at such price and on such terms.
Preemptive Rights
provided
 
Section 5.2  .  (a)  In the event the Company intends to make a Qualified Offering of Covered Securities that is an underwritten public offering or a private offering made to Qualified Institutional Buyers (as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) for resale pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, the Company shall give the Investor written notice of its intention (including, in the case of a registered public offering and to the extent possible, a copy of the prospectus included in the registration statement filed in respect of such offering), describing, to the extent then known, the anticipated amount of securities, price and other material terms upon which the Company proposes to offer the same.  The Investor shall have 24 hours (which shall not include any hours during any day that is not a Business Day) from the date and time of receipt of any such notice to notify the Company in writing that it intends to exercise such preemptive purchase rights and as to the amount of Covered Securities the Investor desires to purchase, up to the maximum amount calculated pursuant to Section 5.1 (the ).  Such notice shall constitute a non-binding indication of interest of Investor to purchase the Designated Securities so specified at the range of prices and other terms set forth in the Companys notice to it.  The failure to respond during such 24-hour period shall constitute a waiver of preemptive rights in respect of such offering.  To the extent the Company shall give the Investor notice of any such offer prior to the public announcement thereof, the Investor shall agree to confidentiality and restriction on trading terms reasonably acceptable to the Company.  The failure of the Investor to agree to such terms within 24 hours (which shall not include any hours during any day that is not a Business Day) after the date and time of receipt of the Companys notice as described in this clause shall constitute a waiver of the Investors preemptive rights in respect of such offering.
Notice
Designated Securities
 
 
-12-
 
 
(b)           If the Company proposes to make a Qualified Offering of Covered Securities that is not an underwritten public offering or Rule 144A offering (a ), the Company shall give the Investor written notice of its intention, describing, to the extent then known, the anticipated amount of securities, price and other material terms upon which the Company proposes to offer the same.  The Investor shall have 48 hours (which shall not include any hours during any day that is not a Business Day) from the date and time of receipt of the notice required by the immediately preceding sentence to notify the Company in writing that it intends to exercise such preemptive purchase rights and as to the amount of Designated Securities the Investor desires to purchase, up to the maximum amount calculated pursuant to Section 5.1.  Such notice shall constitute a non-binding indication of interest of the Investor to purchase the amount of Designated Securities so specified (or a proportionately lesser amount if the amount of Covered Securities to be offered in such Private Placement is subsequently reduced) upon the price and other terms set forth in the Companys notice to it.  The failure of the Investor to respond during the 48-hour period (which shall not include any hours during any day that is not a Business Day) referred to in the second preceding sentence shall constitute a waiver of the preemptive rights in respect of such offering.  To the extent the Company shall give the Investor notice of any such offer prior to the public announcement thereof, the Investor shall agree to confidentiality and restriction on trading terms reasonably acceptable to the Company.  The failure of the Investor to agree to such terms within 48 hours (which shall not include any hours during any day that is not a Business Day) after the date and time of receipt of the Companys notice as described in this clause shall constitute a waiver of the Investors preemptive rights in respect of such offering.
Private Placement
 
Section 5.3  .  (a)  If the Investor exercises its preemptive purchase rights provided in Section 5.2(a), the Company shall offer the Investor, if such underwritten public offering or Rule 144A offering is consummated, the Designated Securities (as adjusted to reflect the actual size of such offering when priced) at the same price as the Covered Securities are offered to the investors in such offering and shall provide written notice of such price to the Investor as soon as practicable prior to such consummation.  Contemporaneously with the execution of any underwriting agreement or purchase agreement entered into between the Company and the underwriters or initial purchasers of such underwritten public offering or Rule 144A offering, the Investor shall, if it continues to wish to exercise its preemptive rights with respect to such offering, enter into an instrument in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company acknowledging the Investors binding obligation to purchase the Designated Securities to be acquired by it and containing representations, warranties and agreements of the Investor that are customary in private placement transactions and, in any event, no less favorable to the Investor than any underwriting or purchase agreement entered into by the Company in connection with such offering, and the Investors failure to enter into such an instrument at or prior to such time shall constitute a waiver of preemptive rights in respect of such offering.  Any offers and sales pursuant to this Article V in the context of a registered public offering shall be also conditioned on reasonably acceptable representations and warranties of the Investor regarding its status as the type of offeree to whom a private sale can be made concurrently with a registered offering in compliance with applicable securities laws.
Purchase Mechanism
 
 
-13-
 
 
(b)           If the Investor exercises its preemptive rights provided in Section 5.2(b), the closing of the purchase of the Covered Securities with respect to which such right has been exercised shall be conditioned on the consummation of the Private Placement giving rise to such preemptive purchase rights and shall take place simultaneously with the closing of the Private Placement or on such other date as the Company and the Investor shall agree in writing; that the actual amount of Covered Securities to be sold to the Investor pursuant to its exercise of preemptive rights hereunder shall be reduced if the aggregate amount of Covered Securities sold in the Private Placement is reduced and, at the option of the Investor (to be exercised by delivery of written notice to the Company within five Business Days of receipt of notice of such increase), shall be increased if such aggregate amount of Covered Securities sold in the Private Placement is increased.  In connection with its purchase of Designated Securities, Investor shall, if it continues to wish to exercise its preemptive rights with respect to such offering, execute an agreement containing representations, warranties and agreements of Investor that are substantially similar in all material respects to the agreements executed by other purchasers in such Private Placement.
provided
 
Section 5.4  .  The Company and the Investor shall cooperate in good faith to facilitate the exercise of the Investors preemptive rights hereunder, including securing any required approvals or consents, in a manner that does not jeopardize the timing, marketing, pricing or execution of any offering of the Companys securities.  In the event that within 60 days of the date hereof the Company proposes to offer or sell securities in a single transaction or series of transactions for aggregate proceeds in excess of $500,000,000, the Company shall consult with Investor concerning such transaction or transactions prior to undertaking such transaction.
Cooperation
 
Section 5.5  .  Notwithstanding the above, nothing set forth in this Article V shall confer upon the Investor the right to purchase any securities of the Company other than Designated Securities.
Limitation of Rights
 
Section 5.6  .  The preemptive right to purchase Covered Securities granted by this Article V shall not be available for any offering that commences at any time after (i) October 13, 2013 (the ) or (ii) the date on which the Investor Transfers any of the Securities that it acquired on the Closing Date or the Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Securities, or Hedges its exposure to the Common Stock, except as contemplated by clause (i) or (ii) of the first sentence of Section 4.1(a) and Section 4.1(e); , , that the parties shall, no later than 3 months prior to the Preemptive Rights Expiration Date, discuss in good faith whether to extend the Preemptive Rights Expiration Date (with no obligation to extend).
Termination of Preemptive Rights
Preemptive Rights Expiration Date
provided
however
 
 
-14-
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7.1 .  Other than the termination provisions applicable to particular Sections of this Agreement that are specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate (a) upon the mutual written agreement of the Company and the Investor or (b) at such time as the Investor no longer Beneficially Owns any Securities.
Termination
 
 
Section 8.1  .  (a)  The Investor hereby agrees to, and to cause its employees, representatives and Controlled Affiliates to, and shall instruct its Affiliates that are not Controlled Affiliates to, keep confidential the Company Proprietary Information to utilize the Company Proprietary Information only for purposes related to the purpose for which such information was disclosed.   shall mean any and all confidential information of the Company, including without limitation non-public information relating to the Companys finances and results, technology, trade secrets, know-how, customers, business plans, marketing activities, financial data and other business affairs that is disclosed by the Company to the Investor Directors, the Observer, the Investor (or its Affiliates and representatives) or is learned by an Investor Director or the Observer while acting in his or her capacity as such; , , that Company Proprietary Information does not include any information that:  (i) is, or subsequently becomes, publicly available without breach of these confidentiality provisions;  or (ii) is or becomes known or available to the Investor from a source other than the Company that, to the receiving partys knowledge, is not prohibited from disclosing such Company Proprietary Information to the receiving party by a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation owed by such other third party to the Company.
Company Proprietary Information
and
Company Proprietary Information
provided
however
 
(b)           In the event that the Investor or any of its Affiliates or representatives is requested pursuant to, or required by, applicable law, regulation or legal process to disclose any Company Proprietary Information, then before substantively responding to any such request or requirement, the Investor will provide the Company with prompt written notice of any such request or requirement so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, or both, or waive compliance with the provisions of this Section 8.1 or other appropriate remedy, or if the Company so directs, the Investor will exercise its own reasonable best efforts to assist the Company in obtaining a protective order or other appropriate remedy at the Companys expense.  If, failing the entry of a protective order or other appropriate remedy or the receipt of a waiver hereunder, disclosure of any Company Proprietary Information is, in the opinion of the Investors counsel, required, the Investor may furnish only that portion of the Company Proprietary Information which in the opinion of the Investors counsel is required to be so furnished pursuant to law, regulation or legal process.  In any event, the Investor will cooperate
 
 
-15-
 
 
 
fully with any action by the Company to obtain an appropriate protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the Company Proprietary Information.
 
Section 8.2    .  (a)  The Company hereby agrees to, and to cause its employees, representatives and Controlled Affiliates to, and shall instruct its Affiliates that are not Controlled Affiliates to, keep confidential the Investor Proprietary Information and to utilize the Investor Proprietary Information only for purposes related to the purpose for which such information was disclosed.   shall mean any and all confidential information of the Investor, including without limitation non-public information relating to the Investors finances and results, technology, trade secrets, know-how, customers, business plans, marketing activities, financial data and other business affairs that is disclosed by the Investor to the Company (or its Affiliates and representatives) in connection with the Investors investment in the Company or the Strategic Alliance as defined in the Purchase Agreement; , , that Investor Proprietary Information does not include any information that:  (i) is, or subsequently becomes, publicly available without breach of these confidentiality provisions;  or (ii) is or becomes known or available to the Company from a source other than the Investor that, to the receiving partys knowledge, is not prohibited from disclosing such Investor Proprietary Information to the receiving party by a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation owed by such other third party to the Investor.
Investor Proprietary Information
Investor Proprietary Information
provided
however
 
(b)           In the event that the Company or any of its Affiliates or representatives is requested pursuant to, or required by, applicable law, regulation or legal process to disclose any Investor Proprietary Information, then before substantively responding to any such request or requirement, the Company will provide the Investor with prompt written notice of any such request or requirement so that the Investor may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, or both, or waive compliance with the provisions of this Section 8.2 or other appropriate remedy, or if the Investor so directs, the Company will exercise its own reasonable best efforts to assist the Investor in obtaining a protective order or other appropriate remedy at the Investors expense.  If, failing the entry of a protective order or other appropriate remedy or the receipt of a waiver hereunder, disclosure of any Investor Proprietary Information is, in the opinion of the Companys counsel, required, the Company may furnish only that portion of the Investor Proprietary Information which in the opinion of the Companys counsel is required to be so furnished pursuant to law, regulation or legal process.  In any event, the Company will cooperate fully with any action by the Investor to obtain an appropriate protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the Investor Proprietary Information.
 
 
Section 9.1  .  Except as and to the extent set forth in Section 4.1(a), neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the parties hereto, in whole or in part (whether by operation of law or otherwise), without the prior written consent of each of the other parties.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Investor may assign any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement to any
Successors and Assigns
 
 
-16-
 
 
 
direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of the Investor, but the assignor shall remain liable for the assignees nonperformance of any such obligations.  Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.  Any attempted assignment in violation of this Section 9.1 shall be void.
 
Section 9.2  .  This Agreement may be amended only by an agreement in writing executed by the Company and the Investor.  Any party may waive in whole or in part any benefit or right provided to it under this Agreement, such waiver being effective only if contained in a writing executed by the waiving party.  No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other covenant, duty, agreement or condition, nor shall any delay or omission of any party to exercise any right hereunder in any manner impair the exercise of any such right accruing to it thereafter.
Amendments; Waiver
 
Section 9.3  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all notices, requests, claims, demands, waivers and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand or overnight courier service, or when received by facsimile transmission or electronic mail transmission if promptly confirmed (in the case of electronic mail transmission, by means such as by the return receipt requested function, return electronic mail or other written acknowledgment by the intended recipient), as follows:
Notices
 
 
If to the Company:
 
 
 
with copies to:
  marc.williams@davispolk.com
 
 
-17-
 
 
 
If to the Investor:
 
 
 
with copies to:
or to such other address, facsimile number or telephone as either party may, from time to time, designate in a written notice given in a like manner.
 
Section 9.4  .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed entirely within such State, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof that would govern, construe or enforce the Agreement under laws other than the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
 
Section 9.5  .  The Investor irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any Delaware State or United States Federal court sitting in the County of New Castle, Delaware over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.  The Investor irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.  EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.  EACH PARTY CERTIFIES
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
 
-18-
 
 
 
AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (i) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) EACH PARTY UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF THIS WAIVER, (iii) EACH PARTY MAKES THIS WAIVER VOLUNTARILY, AND (iv) EACH PARTY HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT  BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 9.5.
 
Section 9.6  .  The descriptive headings of the several sections in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute a part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
Section 9.7  .  This Agreement, the Related Agreements and the schedules and exhibits attached to any such documents constitute the entire agreement between the Company and the Investor with respect to the subject matter hereof.  This Agreement and the Related Agreements supersede all prior agreements with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
Section 9.8  .  If any term or provision of this Agreement or any application thereof shall be declared or held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, in whole or in part, whether generally or in any particular jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed amended to the extent, but only to the extent, necessary to cure such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions, both generally and in every other jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
Section 9.9  .  This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
Section 9.10  .  When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule, such reference is to an Article or Section of, or an Exhibit or Schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.  The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.  Whenever the words include, includes and including are used in this Agreement, they are deemed to be followed by the words without limitation.  For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, (a) the terms defined include the plural as well as the singular, (b) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and (c) the words herein, hereof and hereunder and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
Interpretation
 
Section 9.11  .  The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached.  It is accordingly agreed that
Specific Performance
 
 
-19-
 
 
the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
 
Section 9.12  .  The Investor irrevocably appoints MUFG North America, 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020-1104, to act as its agent for service of process and any other documents in proceedings in the State of New York or the State of Delaware or any other proceedings in connection with this Agreement.
Process Agent
 
Section 9.13  .  Except for the transferees contemplated by clause (i) of the second sentence of Section 4.1(a), nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any Person, other than the parties hereto or their respective successors, any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
 
 
-20- 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date set forth at the head of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


