FILE:MS/MS-8K-20110915120240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On September 15, 2011, Morgan Stanley (the ) announced that John J. Mack will step down as Chairman and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, effective December 31, 2011.  James P. Gorman, P
Company
resident and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, will assume the additional position of Chairman of the Board, effective January 1, 2012. 
The Companys related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
 
 
define the Firms distinctive culture and build our franchise across the globe.  His contributions to the Firm are innumerable, but none was more critical than the leadership he provided in guiding Morgan Stanley through a financial crisis that claimed many of our peers.  I know my partners across the Firm join me in thanking John for his counsel, his support and his friendship over many years  and for many years to come.
 
C. Robert Kidder, Morgan Stanleys Lead Independent Director, said, We are grateful for everything that John has done for Morgan Stanley during his long and successful career on Wall Street.  As Chairman and CEO, he sharpened the Firms strategic focus, re-invigorated our culture and strengthened our client franchise.  Most profoundly, his foresight in strengthening our balance sheet and his iron-willed leadership in the face of unprecedented challenges helped Morgan Stanley continue serving our clients even during the darkest days of the financial crisis.  James has built on that leadership position  continuing to strengthen our global platform, attract top talent and focus on strategic execution across our businesses.  So, we are very pleased to name James as the Firms new Chairman and complete the seamless leadership transition we began two years ago.
 
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm providing a wide range of investment banking, securities, investment management and wealth management services.  The Firm's employees serve clients worldwide including corporations, governments, institutions and individuals from more than 1,300 offices in 42 countries.  For further information about Morgan Stanley, please visit .
www.morganstanley.com
 


