FILE:MS/MS-8K-20120628091228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 27, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Morgan Stanley (the Company) increased the number of directors on the Board from 13 to 14 and elected Robert H. Herz to the Board, effective July 2, 2012.  The Board determined that Mr. Herz is independent in accordance with the director independence standards established under the Companys Corporate Governance Policies and is an audit committee financial expert under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  In addition, the Board appointed Mr. Herz to its Audit Committee, effective July 2, 2012.
 
Mr. Herz will receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Companys non-employee director compensation practices described in Item 1 - Election of Directors: Corporate Governance - Director Compensation of the Companys Annual Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5, 2012.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
As stated in the Companys Corporate Governance Policies, the Board supports the periodic rotation of Board committee chairs and assignments.  The Board has approved the membership of the committees of the Board below, effective July 2, 2012.
 
Audit Committee
 
Donald T. Nicolaisen  Chair
Howard J. Davies
Robert H. Herz*
O. Griffith Sexton
 
Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee
 
Erskine B. Bowles  Chair
C. Robert Kidder
Donald T. Nicolaisen
Hutham S. Olayan
 
Nominating and Governance Committee
 
James W. Owens  Chair**
Roy J. Bostock
C. Robert Kidder
Klaus Kleinfeld*
 
 
 
 
 
Operations and Technology Committee
 
Donald T. Nicolaisen  Chair
Howard J. Davies
O. Griffith Sexton*
Ryosuke Tamakoshi
 
Risk Committee
 
Howard J. Davies  Chair
Roy J. Bostock
James W. Owens*
Masaaki Tanaka
Laura D. Tyson*
 
* New member of committee.
** New chair of committee.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press release of Morgan Stanley, dated June 28, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


