Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this 2009 Form 10 K and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements in Part I of this 2009 Form 10 K ). The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and has historically experienced periodic downturns and upturns. Todays leading indicators of changes in customer investment patterns may not be any more reliable than in prior years. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions (generally and in the semiconductor industry), supply, demand, prices for semiconductors, customer capacity requirements, and our ability to develop, acquire, and market competitive products. For these and other reasons, our results of operations for fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) provides a description of our results of operations and should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this 2009 Form 10 K. MD&A consists of the following sections: Executive Summary provides a summary of the key highlights of our results of operations and our managements assessment of material trends and uncertainties relevant to our business Results of Operations provides an analysis of operating results Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates discusses accounting policies that reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements Liquidity and Capital Resources provides an analysis of cash flows, contractual obligations and financial position Executive Summary We design, manufacture, market, and service semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and are recognized as a major provider of such equipment to the worldwide semiconductor industry. Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. We leverage our expertise in these areas to develop integrated and standalone processing solutions which typically benefit our customers through reduced cost, lower defect rates, enhanced yields, or faster processing time as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is cyclical and dependent on overall world economic conditions. Recent adverse conditions in the global economy have significantly reduced customer demand for our products. While our ability to predict the demand for wafer fabrication equipment in the future is 24 Table of Contents limited, we believe that, over the long term, demand for our products will increase as customers capital expenditures increase to meet demand for semiconductor devices. However, our visibility for shipment volumes over the next few quarters remains very limited and, as a result, we remain cautious about forecasting any significant resumption in equipment spending in the near term. The following summarizes certain key annual financial information for the periods indicated below (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts): Year Ended June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 June 24, 2007 (in thousands, except per share data and percentages) Revenue $ 1,115,946 $ 2,474,911 $ 2,566,576 Gross margin 388,734 1,173,406 1,305,054 Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 34.8 % 47.4 % 50.8 % Net income/(loss) (302,148 ) 439,349 685,816 Diluted net income (loss) per share $ (2.41 ) $ 3.47 $ 4.85 Fiscal year 2009 results compared with fiscal year 2008 results reflect declines in customer demand, consistent with the deterioration in the general economic outlook and, specifically, the downturn in the semiconductor industry which has been impacted by a decline in consumer spending for electronic goods. Fiscal year 2009 shipments were approximately $1.0 billion and decreased 59% compared to fiscal year 2008. Fiscal year 2009 revenues decreased 55% compared to fiscal year 2008. Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 34.8% for fiscal year 2009 and decreased sequentially compared to fiscal year 2008 gross margin of 47.4%. This reduction was primarily due to customer concentration, product mix, and decreased factory and field utilization as a result of reduced shipment volumes on declining customer demand, partially offset by favorable warranty performance. Included in gross margin were charges for restructuring and asset impairments of $21.0 million and $12.6 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. Fiscal year 2009 operating expenses include goodwill impairment of $96.3 million, restructuring and asset impairments of $44.5 million, a legal judgment of $4.6 million, and $3.2 million of expenses associated with the assumption of Section 409A employee liabilities. Fiscal year 2008 operating expenses include the assumption of Section 409A employee liabilities of $44.5 million and $6.4 million of restructuring and asset impairments. We continue to invest significantly in research and development focused on leading edge plasma etch, single wafer clean, and other new products and technologies. Although there are near term pressures on business from declining customer demand, we are targeting the longer term benefits of our product development activities. These factors, along with decreasing revenues and lower gross margins noted above, contributed to the fiscal year 2009 operating loss of 25.2% compared to fiscal year 2008 operating margin of 20.6%. In both the etch and clean markets, we believe there are opportunities for market share expansion as we have placed a significant number of joint development projects and evaluation units at our customers locations to enable penetration of new applications while defending and growing our existing market share. We anticipate that while there are opportunities to add to our leading etch market share position, significant market share growth opportunities will be in single wafer clean. We intend to increase the penetration of various applications at our existing single wafer clean customers, as well as at customers who will be introducing single wafer cleaners into their fabs. Our key positions of strength in single wafer clean have historically been in the back end of line foundry and logic markets, and spending for new equipment in those markets has recently been low, resulting in temporarily exacerbated reductions in revenue and market share for our equipment. When new capacity is added in the foundry and logic markets, we expect our market share will increase with our current tool of record positions. Due to the current high volume of idled capacity potentially requiring remanufacture and upgrade, we anticipate that installed base upgrade and conversion activity will represent a meaningful revenue opportunity for us over the next few years. This opportunity is particularly substantial in etch, where new technology capability is typically required to meet leading edge requirements at the next technology node. 25 Table of Contents We recently established our Reliant System Business in order to increase our focus on and capabilities in the refurbishment and upgrades business opportunities that we expect in etch. We have also recently added clean refurbishment and upgrades capabilities in order to support our customers needs in respect of the installed base of single wafer cleaners. In todays etch market, our customers have idled equipment available for refurbishment or upgrade that has temporarily reduced the total demand for new equipment purchases at the leading edge. This is particularly the case at our memory customers. Once demand accelerates and capacity utilization rises, we anticipate that our customers requirements for refurbishment or upgrade will diminish and most leading edge wafer start additions will be filled by new equipment. Some older installed base tools cannot be refurbished or upgraded for reuse on the leading edge, but they can be utilized in trailing edge foundries where 300 millimeter tool sets are needed. We intend to be very active in the used 300 millimeter tool set market as it develops in the coming quarters. In this period of reduced customer spending, we have continued to make major investments in product portfolios, as we believe they represent a significant growth opportunity when the upturn comes. We do, however, remain focused on balancing the need to invest in next generation technologies with carefully managing the cash expenditures of the Company. Results of Operations Shipments and Backlog Year Ended June 28,2009 June 29,2008 Shipments (in millions) $ 976 $ 2,367 North America 16 % 16 % Europe 11 % 9 % Asia Pacific 12 % 13 % Taiwan 20 % 20 % Korea 21 % 22 % Japan 20 % 20 % Shipments for the fiscal year 2009 decreased sequentially by 59% reflecting the industry and economic environment noted above. During fiscal year 2009, 300 millimeter applications represented approximately 90% of total systems shipments and 87% of total systems shipments were for applications at less than or equal to the 65 nanometer technology node. We classify systems shipments market segmentation for fiscal year 2009 as Memory at approximately 58%, Integrated Device Manufacturers and Logic at 21% and Foundry at 21%. Unshipped orders in backlog as of June 28, 2009 were approximately $391 million and decreased from approximately $410 million as of June 29, 2008 consistent with reduced spending commitments from our customers. The basis for recording new orders is defined in our backlog policy. Please refer to Backlog in Part I Item 1, Business of this 2009 Form 10 K for additional information on our backlog policy. Our unshipped orders backlog includes orders for systems, spares, and services where written customer requests have been accepted and the delivery of products or provisions of services is anticipated within the next 12 months. Our policy is to revise our backlog for order cancellations and to make adjustments to reflect, among other things, spares volume estimates and customer delivery date changes. Revenue Year Ended June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 June 24, 2007 Revenue (in thousands) $ 1,115,946 $ 2,474,911 $ 2,566,576 North America 15 % 17 % 16 % Europe 11 % 10 % 9 % Asia Pacific 13 % 13 % 18 % Taiwan 19 % 20 % 22 % Korea 21 % 22 % 21 % Japan 21 % 18 % 14 % 26 Table of Contents The sequential revenue decline during fiscal year 2009 reflects the industry and economic environments noted above. Our revenue levels are correlated to the amount of shipments and our installation and acceptance timelines. The overall Asia region continues to account for a significant portion of our revenues as a substantial amount of the worldwide capacity additions for semiconductor manufacturing continues to occur in this region. Our deferred revenue balance decreased to $64.7 million as of June 28, 2009 compared to $193.6 million as of June 29, 2008, consistent with the decline in customer spending levels during fiscal year 2009. Our deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to Japanese customers, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $13 million as of June 28, 2009 compared to $52 million as of June 29, 2008. Gross Margin Year Ended June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 June 24, 2007 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross Margin $ 388,734 $ 1,173,406 $ 1,305,054 Percent of total revenue 34.8 % 47.4 % 50.8 % Gross margin as a percent of revenue during fiscal year 2009 was 34.8%. The decrease in gross margin as a percent of revenue for fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to decreased factory and field utilization as a result of reduced shipment volumes on declining customer demand, changes in our product mix, customer concentration, and $21.0 million of one time restructuring and asset impairment expenses, partially offset by favorable warranty performance. The decrease in gross margin as a percent of revenue for fiscal year 2008 compared with fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to decreased factory utilization as a result of reduced shipment volumes, as well as customer concentration and product mix challenges, $12.6 million of one time restructuring and asset impairment expenses related to the streamlining of our combined Clean Product Group following the acquisition of SEZ, and $6.4 million of expense associated with the assumption of the employee tax liabilities as a result of the determinations from our voluntary independent stock option review. Research and Development Year Ended June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 June 24, 2007 (in thousands, except percentages) Research & Development (R&D) $ 288,269 $ 323,759 $ 285,348 Percent of total revenue 25.8 % 13.1 % 11.1 % We continue to make significant investments in R&D focused on plasma etch, single wafer clean and new products. The decline in R&D spending during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, includes approximately $8 million of lower salary and benefits related to cost savings measures, $11 million in lower other employee compensation on lower profits and a $26 million decrease in outside services and supplies, partially offset by $5 million in depreciation and amortization mainly related to the inclusion of SEZ. Approximately 91% and 74% of fiscal years 2009 and 2008 systems revenues, respectively, were derived from products introduced over the previous two years, which is reflective of our continued investment in new products and technologies. The growth in R&D spending during fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 included approximately $22 million in salary and benefits costs for increases in headcount and employee base compensation, $9 million in engineering material supplies and outside services targeting etch and new product growth objectives, the inclusion of SEZ operations for approximately four months of fiscal year 2008, and a $3 million decrease in incentive based compensation driven by reduced profit levels. 27 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Year Ended June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 June 24, 2007 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, General & Administrative (SG&A) $ 233,061 $ 287,282 $ 241,046 Percent of total revenue 20.9 % 11.6 % 9.4 % The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 was driven by reductions of approximately $34 million in other employee compensation as a result of lower company profitability and $7 million in salaries and benefits related to cost savings measures, $19 million in cost incurred as a result of the voluntary stock option reviews completed in fiscal year 2008, and $5 million in outside services and supplies, partially offset by a $7 million charge to increase the reserves against our receivables balance for distressed customers. The increase in SG&A expenses during fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 was driven by increases of approximately $24 million in salary and benefits costs for increases in headcount, $19 million in legal and accounting cost incurred as a result of the voluntary stock option review, the inclusion of SEZ operations for approximately four months, and $3 million in equity based compensation partially offset by a decrease of $5 million in incentive based compensation triggered by lower profit levels. Goodwill Impairment A combination of factors, including the current economic environment, a sustained decline in our market valuation and a decline in our operating results were indicators of possible impairment of our goodwill. We performed an impairment analysis and concluded, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Number 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, that the fair value of our Clean Product Group has been reduced below its carrying value. As a result, we recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $96.3 million during fiscal year 2009. The calculation of the goodwill impairment charge is based on estimates of future operating results. If our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of our Clean Product Group, an additional impairment analysis may be required which may result in further impairment charges. Restructuring and Asset Impairments During the June 2008 quarter, we incurred expenses for restructuring and asset impairment charges related to the integration of SEZ and overall streamlining of our combined Clean Product Group (June 2008 Plan). We incurred additional expenses under the June 2008 Plan during the quarter ended September 28, 2008. The charges during the June 2008 quarter included severance and related benefits costs, excess facilities related costs and certain asset impairments associated with our initial product line integration road maps. The charges during the September 2008 quarter primarily included severance and related benefits costs and certain asset impairments associated with our product line integration road maps. During the December 2008 quarter, we incurred expenses for restructuring and asset impairment charges designed to better align our cost structure with our business opportunities in consideration of market and economic uncertainties (December 2008 Plan). The charges during the December 2008 quarter consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. During the March 2009 quarter, we incurred expenses for restructuring and asset impairment charges designed to align our cost structure with our outlook for the current economic environment and future business opportunities (March 2009 Plan). The charges during the March 2009 quarter consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. We incurred additional expenses under the March 2009 Plan during the quarter ended June 28, 2009. The charges during the June 2009 quarter consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. 28 Table of Contents Prior to the end of each quarter noted above, we initiated the announced restructuring activities and management, with the proper level of authority, approved specific actions under the June 2008 Plan, the December 2008 Plan, and the March 2009 Plan. Severance packages to affected employees were communicated in enough detail such that the employees could determine their type and amount of benefit. The termination of the affected employees occurred as soon as practical after the restructuring plans were announced. The amount of remaining future lease payments for facilities we ceased to use and included in the restructuring charges is based on managements estimates using known prevailing real estate market conditions at that time based, in part, on the opinions of independent real estate experts. Leasehold improvements relating to the vacated buildings were written off, as these items will have no future economic benefit to the Company and have been abandoned. We distinguish regular operating cost management activities from restructuring activities. Accounting for restructuring activities requires an evaluation of formally committed and approved plans. Restructuring activities have comparatively greater strategic significance and materiality and may involve exit activities, whereas regular cost containment activities are more tactical in nature and are rarely characterized by formal and integrated action plans or exiting a particular product, facility, or service. We recorded net restructuring charges and asset impairments during fiscal year 2009 of approximately $65.5 million, consisting of severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees of $52.0 million, charges for the write off of certain assets totaling $10.2 million, and charges for the present value of remaining lease payments, net of sublease income, on vacated facilities of $3.3 million. Of the total $65.5 million in charges, $21.0 million was recorded in cost of goods sold and $44.5 million was recorded in operating expenses in our fiscal year 2009 consolidated statement of operations. We recorded net restructuring charges and asset impairments during fiscal year 2008 of approximately $19.0 million, consisting of severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees of $5.5 million, charges for the present value of remaining lease payments, net of sublease income, on vacated facilities of $0.9 million, the write off of related fixed assets of $1.9 million, and asset impairments related to initial product line integration road maps of $10.7 million. Of the total $19.0 million in charges, $12.6 million was recorded in cost of goods sold and $6.4 million was recorded in operating expenses in our fiscal year 2008 consolidated statement of operations. As a result of the June 2008, September 2008, December 2008, March 2009, and June 2009 quarters restructuring activities, we expect annual savings in total expenses, relative to the cost structure immediately preceding the activities, of approximately $179 million to $189 million. The estimated savings from the June 2008, December 2008, and March 2009 Plans discrete actions are primarily related to lower employee payroll, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Actual savings may vary from these forecasts, depending upon future events and circumstances. Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the June 2008 Plan: Severance andBenefits Facilities Abandoned Assets Inventory Total (in thousands) Fiscal year 2008 expense $ 5,513 $ 899 $ 1,893 $ 10,671 $ 18,976 Cash payments (927 ) (927 ) Non cash charges (1,893 ) (10,671 ) (12,564 ) Balance at June 29, 2008 4,586 899 5,485 Fiscal year 2009 expense 12,554 3,395 3,067 19,016 Cash payments (13,155 ) (873 ) (14,028 ) Non cash charges (3,418 ) (3,395 ) (3,067 ) (9,880 ) Balance at June 28, 2009 $ 567 $ 26 $ $ $ 593 29 Table of Contents Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the December 2008 Plan: Severanceand Benefits Facilities AbandonedAssets Inventory Total (in thousands) Fiscal year 2009 expense $ 16,412 $ 618 $ $ 819 $ 17,849 Cash payments (15,728 ) (15,728 ) Non cash charges (618 ) (819 ) (1,437 ) Balance at June 28, 2009 $ 684 $ $ $ $ 684 Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the March 2009 Plan: Severanceand Benefits Facilities AbandonedAssets Inventory Total (in thousands) Fiscal year 2009 expense $ 23,038 $ 2,265 $ 3,008 $ 330 $ 28,641 Cash payments (18,647 ) (1,828 ) (20,475 ) Non cash charges (466 ) (3,008 ) (330 ) (3,804 ) Balance at June 28, 2009 $ 3,925 $ 437 $ $ $ 4,362 The severance and benefits related balance is anticipated to be paid by the end of fiscal year 2010. The facilities balance consists primarily of lease payments, net of sublease income, on vacated buildings and is expected to be paid by the end of fiscal year 2015. 409A Expense Following the voluntary independent review of our historical option grant process, we considered whether Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and similar provisions of state law would apply to stock options that were found, under APB No. 25, to have intrinsic value at the time of their respective measurement dates. If a stock option is not considered as issued with an exercise price of at least the fair market value of the underlying stock, it may be subject to penalty taxes under Section 409A and similar provisions of state law. In such a case, such taxes may be assessed not only on the intrinsic value increase, but on the entire stock option gain as measured at various times. On March 30, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized us to assume potential tax liabilities of certain employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and certain executive officers, relating to options that might be subject to Section 409A and similar provisions of state law. Those liabilities totaled $50.9 million; $44.5 million was recorded in operating expenses and $6.4 million in cost of goods sold in our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal year 2008. We incurred $3.2 million of expense during fiscal year 2009 consisting of interest and legal fees. We are presently discussing with the Internal Revenue Service the application of Section 409A to Company stock options. The determinations from the voluntary independent stock option review are more fully described in Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our 2007 Form 10 K. Legal Judgment Aspect Systems, Inc. (Aspect) sued us for breach of contract and various business torts arising out of a transaction in which we licensed Aspect to sell certain of our legacy Autoetch and Drytek products. The case went to trial in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona in December of 2008, resulting in a jury verdict in favor of Aspect. We filed an appeal from the ensuing judgment, which is now pending. We recorded the amount of the legal judgment of $4.6 million in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended June 28, 2009. 30 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consisted of the following: Year Ended June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 June 24, 2007 (in thousands) Interest income $ 24,283 $ 51,194 $ 71,666 Interest expense (6,497 ) (12,674 ) (17,817 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses) 922 31,070 (1,512 ) Favorable legal judgment 15,834 Other, net (558 ) (2,045 ) 892 $ 18,150 $ 67,545 $ 69,063 The decrease in interest income during fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 is primarily due to a decrease in our average balances of cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and restricted cash and investments throughout fiscal year 2009 and, to a lesser extent, decreases in interest rate yields. The decrease in average balances was primarily related to payment of the outstanding principal balance of $250.0 million of our existing long term debt with ABN AMRO Bank N.C. (ABN AMRO) during fiscal year 2009. The sequential decrease in interest income during fiscal year 2008 as compared with fiscal year 2007 is primarily related to decreases in average balances of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, primarily driven by the acquisition of SEZ. The decrease in interest expense during fiscal year 2009 as compared with the prior year was due to our $250.0 million loan payment to ABN AMRO and to a lesser extent, decreases in interest rate yields. The sequential decrease in interest expense in fiscal year 2008 as compared with fiscal year 2007 is primarily related to the $100 million repayment on our long term debt during fiscal year 2007 and a decline in interest rates. Foreign exchanges gains in fiscal year 2009 are due to forecast variances and are related to un hedged portions of the balance sheet exposures, primarily in the Japanese yen, Taiwanese dollar and Euro and were partially offset by $4.0 million of deferred net losses, net of tax, associated with ineffectiveness related to forecasted transactions that were no longer considered probable of occurring and were recognized in Other income (expense), net in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations during the twelve months ended June 28, 2009. Included in foreign exchange gains during fiscal year 2008 are gains associated with the acquisition of SEZ of $42.7 million relating primarily to the settlement of a hedge of the Swiss franc. These acquisition related net foreign exchange gains were partially offset by other foreign exchange losses of approximately $11.6 million during fiscal year 2008 which were primarily due to our foreign currency denominated liabilities with non U.S. dollar functional subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar weakened against certain currencies, primarily the Euro and Taiwan dollar resulting in the foreign exchange loss. In fiscal year 2009, we implemented a balance sheet hedging program to manage Swiss franc, Euro and Taiwanese dollar foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the impact of those fluctuations on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. These exposures are related to the net intercompany liability positions in these currencies. A description of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates can be found in the Risk Factors section of this 2009 Form 10 K under the heading Our Future Success Depends on International Sales and Management of Global Operations. The favorable legal judgment of $15.8 million during fiscal year 2007 was obtained in a lawsuit filed by us alleging breach of purchase order contracts by one of our customers. The Supreme Court of California denied review of lower and appellate court judgments in our favor during the quarter ended September 24, 2006. Income Tax Expense Our annual income tax expense was $39.1 million, $137.6 million, and $161.9 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007 was (14.8%), 23.9%, and 19.1%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2009 is primarily due to the Companys loss position. In fiscal year 2009 there were certain events that resulted in a net tax expense. These 31 Table of Contents events included favorable adjustments for previously estimated tax liabilities upon the filing of our U.S. and certain foreign income tax returns and the R&D credit reinstatement offset by tax expense for a change in California law, and a valuation allowance placed on certain foreign deferred tax assets. The fiscal year 2008 effective tax rate was 23.9%, compared to the fiscal year 2007 effective tax rate of 19.1%. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 is primarily due to the application of certain foreign tax rulings, a decrease in the proportion of income in low tax jurisdictions, as well as the expiration of the federal research tax credit which expired on December 31, 2007. The increase was partially offset by certain events resulting in a net tax benefit of $11.6 million. These events included favorable adjustments for previously estimated tax liabilities upon the filing of our U.S. and certain foreign income tax returns, and the reversal of tax reserves with respect to certain transfer pricing items now settled. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Our gross deferred tax assets, primarily comprised of reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible and tax credit carryforwards, were $157.0 million and $173.0 million at the end of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. These gross deferred tax assets were offset by deferred tax liabilities of $41.9 million and $53.1 million at the end of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, and a valuation allowance of $35.5 million and $3.4 million at the end of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. Our current valuation allowance of $35.5 million relates to certain California and foreign deferred tax assets and our fiscal year 2008s valuation allowance of $3.4 million relates to certain foreign deferred tax assets. As part of the valuation allowance recorded in fiscal year 2009, we recorded a valuation allowance on certain California deferred tax assets reflecting the potential impacts of the new California law related to the repeal of the cost of performance sales factor sourcing rule and the single sales factor apportionment election (both passed February 20, 2009, effective for years beginning on or after January 1, 2011). In addition, we recorded a valuation allowance against certain foreign deferred tax assets for which management believes it is not more likely than not to be realized. We evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly and will continue to assess the need for additional valuation allowances, if any. FIN 48 In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on de recognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. On June 25, 2007, upon adoption of FIN 48, the cumulative effect of applying FIN 48 was reported as an increase of the beginning balance of retained earnings of approximately $17.6 million. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. 32 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We based our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements are described in Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and or subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have completed our system installation obligations, received customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our installation or customer acceptance obligations. In the event that terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. In circumstances where the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue where it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, revenue is recognized upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. Revenue from multiple element arrangements is allocated among the separate elements based on their relative fair values, provided the elements have value on a stand alone basis, there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value, the arrangement does not include a general right of return relative to the delivered item and delivery, or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. The maximum revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. Revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits is generally recognized upon shipment. Revenue related to services is generally recognized upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. Revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Inventory Valuation: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using standard costs which generally approximate actual costs on a first in, first out basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the quantity on hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased components, subassemblies, and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of perpetual inventory records through periodic physical counts of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title transfer to the customer. Generally, title transfer is documented in the terms of sale. When the terms of sale do not specify title transfer, we assume title transfers when we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier unless other customer practices prevail. Transfer of title for shipments to Japanese customers generally occurs at the time of customer acceptance. Standard costs are reassessed as needed but annually at a minimum, and reflect achievable acquisition costs. Acquisition costs are generally based on the most recent vendor contract prices for purchased parts, normalized assembly and test labor utilization levels, methods of manufacturing, and overhead for internally manufactured products. Manufacturing labor and overhead costs are attributed to individual product standard costs at a level planned to absorb spending at average utilization volumes. All intercompany profits related to the sales and purchases of inventory between our legal entities are eliminated from our consolidated financial statements. Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work in process, 33 Table of Contents finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirements over the next 12 to 36 months is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the revision is made. Warranty: Typically, the sale of semiconductor capital equipment includes providing parts and service warranty to customers as part of the overall price of the system. We offer standard warranties for our systems that generally run for a period of 12 months from system acceptance. When appropriate, we record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system upon revenue recognition. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical activity which uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic region, and any known factors such as tool reliability trends. All actual or estimated parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those established reserves on a system by system basis. Actual warranty expenses are accounted for on a system by system basis, and may differ from our original estimates. While we periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer customer paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and warranty services with a fixed payment amount are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Related costs are recorded either as incurred or when related liabilities are determined to be probable and estimable. Equity based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Employee Stock Plans: We account for our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) and other stock plans under the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (SFAS No. 123R). SFAS No. 123R requires the recognition of the fair value of equity based compensation in net income. The fair value of our restricted stock units was calculated based upon the fair market value of Company stock at the date of grant. The fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards was estimated using a Black Scholes option valuation model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions and elections in adopting and implementing SFAS No. 123R, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. The fair value of equity based awards is amortized over the vesting period of the award and we have elected to use the straight line method for awards granted after the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and continue to use a graded vesting method for awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our tax credit pool related to equity based compensation to determine if there are any deficiencies that require recognition in our consolidated statements of operations. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we will only recognize a benefit from stock based compensation in paid in capital if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock based compensation on the research tax credit through the income statement (continuing operations) rather than through paid in capital. We have also elected to net deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for the accumulated stock award tax benefits determined under Accounting Principles Board No. 25 for income tax footnote disclosure purposes. We will track these stock award attributes separately and will only recognize these attributes through paid in capital in accordance with Footnote 82 of SFAS No. 123R. Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to 34 Table of Contents earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that can differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are recorded when identified. We provide for income taxes on the basis of annual estimated effective income tax rates. Our estimated effective income tax rate reflects our underlying profitability, the level of R&D spending, the regions where profits are recorded and the respective tax rates imposed. We carefully monitor these factors and adjust the effective income tax rate, if necessary. If actual results differ from estimates, we could be required to record an additional valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust our effective income tax rate, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 48, Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties (FIN 48). FIN 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authority. It provides guidance on the de recognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN 48 also includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded income tax uncertainties. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits, and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as the interest and penalties relating to these uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two step process prescribed within the interpretation. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142). SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually. SFAS No. 142 also requires that intangible assets with estimable useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. Should certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we would perform an impairment test of goodwill at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to our various reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units, as some of the assets and liabilities related to those reporting units are not held by those reporting units but by a corporate function. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in process research and development and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. 35 Table of Contents The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit for the purposes of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of that reporting unit. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with our plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. We also consider our and our competitors market capitalization on the date we perform the analysis. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. The value assigned to intangible assets is based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On June 30, 2008, we adopted the required portions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). There was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements from the adoption of SFAS No. 157. This Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 currently applies to all financial assets and liabilities, and nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. In February 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position No. (FSP) 157 2, delaying the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. The delayed portions of SFAS No. 157 will be adopted by us beginning in our fiscal year ending June 27, 2010. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset in a Market That Is Not Active, which clarifies the application of Statement 157 when the market for a financial asset is inactive. Specifically, FSP SFAS 157 3 clarifies how (1) managements internal assumptions should be considered in measuring fair value when observable data are not present, (2) observable market information from an inactive market should be taken into account, and (3) the use of broker quotes or pricing services should be considered in assessing the relevance of observable and unobservable data to measure fair value. The guidance of FSP SFAS 157 3 is effective immediately and we adopted its provisions with respect to our financial assets and liabilities since September 28, 2008. The impact of adopting the non delayed portions of SFAS No. 157 is more fully described in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. This Statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. This Statement was effective for us beginning June 30, 2008. We have not applied the fair value option to any items; therefore, the Statement did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R). SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective as of the beginning of an entitys fiscal year that begins after December 15, 2008. We will adopt SFAS No. 141R in the beginning of fiscal year 2010. The accounting treatment of tax benefits from acquired companies will change when SFAS No. 141R becomes effective. At such time, any changes to the tax benefits associated with the valuation allowance recorded in the SEZ acquisition will be recorded through income tax expense, where currently the accounting treatment would require any adjustment to be recognized through the purchase price as an adjustment to goodwill. In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements An Amendment of ARB 51 (SFAS No. 160). SFAS 160 36 Table of Contents establishes accounting and reporting standards for the treatment of noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary. Noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary will be reported as a component of equity in the consolidated financial statements and any retained noncontrolling equity investment upon deconsolidation of a subsidiary is initially measured at fair value. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 will result in the reclassification of minority interests to stockholders equity. We expect to adopt SFAS No. 160 in the beginning of fiscal year 2010 and we do not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. On December 29, 2008, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities An Amendment of FASB Statement 133 (SFAS No. 161). There was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements from the adoption of SFAS No. 161 which requires expanded and enhanced disclosure for derivative instruments, including those used in hedging activities. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP SFAS 142 3). FSP SFAS 142 3 provides guidance with respect to estimating the useful lives of recognized intangible assets acquired on or after the effective date and requires additional disclosure related to the renewal or extension of the terms of recognized intangible assets. FSP SFAS 142 3 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of FSP SFAS 142 3 did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 157 4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly, (FSP SFAS 157 4), which provides additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157 when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. This FSP re emphasizes that regardless of market conditions the fair value measurement is an exit price concept as defined in SFAS No. 157. This FSP clarifies and includes additional factors to consider in determining whether there has been a significant decrease in market activity for an asset or liability and provides additional clarification on estimating fair value when the market activity for an asset or liability has declined significantly. The scope of this FSP does not include assets and liabilities measured under level 1 inputs. FSP SFAS 157 4 is applied prospectively to all fair value measurements where appropriate and is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. We adopted FSP SFAS 157 4 during the quarter ended June 28, 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 107 1 and APB 28 1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (FSP SFAS 107 1 and APB 28 1). FSP SFAS 107 1 and APB 28 1 amends SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, to require publicly traded companies, as defined in APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to provide disclosures on the fair value of financial instruments in interim financial statements. FSP SFAS 107 1 and APB 28 1 is effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of FSP SFAS 107 1 and APB 28 1 will result in expanded disclosures but will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 115 2 and 124 2 Recognition and Presentation of Other Than Temporary Impairments (FSP SFAS 115 2). This FSP amends the requirements for the recognition and measurement of other than temporary impairments for debt securities by modifying the pre existing intent and ability indicator. Under FSP SFAS 115 2, for impaired debt securities, an other than temporary impairment is triggered when there is an intent to sell the security, it is more likely than not that the security will be required to be sold before recovery, or the security is not expected to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. Additionally, FSP SFAS 115 2 changes the presentation of other than temporary impairments in the income statement for those impairments attributed to credit losses. FSP SFAS 115 2 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. We adopted FSP SFAS 115 2 on March 30, 2009 and the adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosures required by FSP SFAS 115 2. 37 Table of Contents In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Number 165, Subsequent Events (SFAS No. 165) which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. SFAS No. 165 requires the disclosure of the date at which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date, that is, whether the date represents the date the financial statements were issued or were available to be issued. The provisions of SFAS No. 165 are effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. In accordance with SFAS No. 165, we evaluated subsequent events through August 26, 2009, the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements. During the periods from June 28, 2009 to August 26, 2009, we did not have any material recognizable subsequent events. Liquidity and Capital Resources Total gross cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances were $757.8 million at the end of fiscal year 2009 compared to $1.2 billion at the end of fiscal year 2008. This decrease was primarily due to our payment of the outstanding principal balance of our long term debt with ABN AMRO Bank N.V. of $250 million during fiscal year 2009, cash used for operations of $(78.1) million, and capital expenditures of $44.3 million. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used for operating activities of $(78.1) million during fiscal year 2009 consisted of (in millions): Net loss $ (302.1 ) Non cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 72.4 Equity based compensation 53.0 Goodwill impairment 96.3 Restructuring charges, net 65.5 Net tax benefit on equity based compensation plans (8.0 ) Deferred income taxes 30.5 Changes in operating asset accounts (95.1 ) Other 9.4 $ (78.1 ) Significant changes in operating asset and liability accounts included the following uses of cash: a decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of approximately $177.3 million primarily related to decreases in taxes payable, accrued compensation and installation and warranty liabilities. Additional uses of cash included decreases in accounts payable and deferred profit. All of these changes were primarily attributable to lower business volume. These uses of cash were partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable of $152.1 million, inventories of $46.1 million and prepaid expenses and other assets of $5.9 million, which were also primarily due to lower business volume. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal year 2009 was $6.0 million which was primarily due to net sales/maturities of investments of $173.8 million, partially offset by a transfer of restricted cash and investments of $92.2 million, capital expenditures of $44.3 million and acquisitions of businesses of $19.5 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal year 2009 was $(260.8) million which was primarily due to principal payments on long term debt and capital leases of $256.0 million, which included our payment of the outstanding principal balance of our long term debt with ABN AMRO Bank N.V. of $250 million during fiscal year 2009. Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Based 38 Table of Contents upon our current business outlook, our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at June 28, 2009 are expected to be sufficient to support our presently anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures through at least the next 12 months. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products. Should additional funding be required, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, in the event of such requirements, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We have certain obligations to make future payments under various contracts, some of which are recorded on our balance sheet and some of which are not. Obligations are recorded on our balance sheet in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and include our long term debt which is outlined in the following table and discussed below. Our off balance sheet arrangements include contractual relationships and are presented as operating leases and purchase obligations in the table below. Our contractual cash obligations and commitments relating to these agreements, and our guarantees are included in the following table. The amounts in the table below exclude $103.0 million of liabilities under FIN 48 as we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or time of settlement. See Note 14, Income Taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. OperatingLeases CapitalLeases PurchaseObligations Long termDebt andInterest Expense Total (in thousands) Payments due by period: Less than 1 year $ 9,945 $ 1,940 $ 103,247 $ 4,293 $ 119,425 1 3 years 14,053 3,788 66,006 19,607 103,454 3 5 years 16,276 3,560 33,819 4,030 57,685 Over 5 years 145,917 12,252 16,671 174,840 Total $ 186,191 $ 21,540 $ 219,743 $ 27,930 $ 455,404 Operating Leases We lease most of our administrative, R&D and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices and certain equipment under non cancelable operating leases, which expire at various dates through fiscal year 2016. Certain of our facility leases for buildings located at our Fremont, California headquarters and certain other facility leases provide us with an option to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation. Included in the Operating Leases Over 5 years section of the table above is $141.7 million in guaranteed residual values for lease agreements relating to certain properties at our Fremont, California campus and properties in Livermore, California. On December 18, 2007, and as amended on April 3, 2008 and July 9, 2008, we entered into a series of two operating leases (the Livermore Leases) regarding certain improved properties in Livermore, California. On December 21, 2007, we entered into a series of four amended and restated operating leases (the New Fremont Leases, and collectively with the Livermore Leases, the Operating Leases) with regard to certain improved properties at our headquarters in Fremont, California. Each of the Operating Leases is an off balance sheet arrangement. The Operating Leases (and associated documents for each Operating Lease) were entered into by us and BNP Paribas Leasing Corporation (BNPPLC). Each Livermore Lease facility has an approximately seven year term (inclusive of an initial construction period during which BNPPLCs and our obligations were governed by the Construction Agreement entered into 39 Table of Contents with regard to such Livermore Lease facility) ending on the first business day in January 2015. Each New Fremont Lease has an approximately seven year term ending on the first business day in January 2015. On December 1, 2008, we completed construction of one of the two Livermore properties. We completed construction on the second property on June 1, 2009. Upon completion of construction, our occupation of each Livermore property was no longer governed by its Construction Agreement, and was instead governed by the relevant Operating Lease. Under each Operating Lease, we may, at our discretion and with 30 days notice, elect to purchase the property that is the subject of the Operating Lease for an amount approximating the sum required to prepay the amount of BNPPLCs investment in the property and any accrued but unpaid rent. Any such amount may also include an additional make whole amount for early redemption of the outstanding investment, which will vary depending on prevailing interest rates at the time of prepayment. We are required, pursuant to the terms of the Operating Leases and associated documents, to maintain collateral in an aggregate of approximately $164.9 million in separate interest bearing accounts as security for our obligations under the Operating Leases. As of June 28, 2009, we had $164.9 million recorded as restricted cash in our consolidated balance sheet as collateral required under the lease agreements related to the amounts currently outstanding on the facility. Upon expiration of the term of an Operating Lease, the property subject to that Operating Lease may be remarketed. We have guaranteed to BNPPLC that each property will have a certain minimum residual value, as set forth in the applicable Operating Lease. The aggregate guarantee made by us under the Operating Leases is no more than approximately $141.7 million (although, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of BNPPLCs investment in the applicable property; in the aggregate, the amounts payable under such guarantees will be no more than $164.9 million plus related indemnification or other obligations). The lessor under the lease agreements is a substantive independent leasing company that does not have the characteristics of a variable interest entity (VIE) as defined by FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and is therefore not consolidated by us. The remaining operating lease balances primarily relate to non cancelable facility related operating leases. Capital Leases Capital leases reflect building lease obligations assumed from our acquisition of SEZ and an office equipment lease. The amounts in the table above include the interest portion of payment obligations. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations consist of significant contractual obligations either on an annual basis or over multi year periods related to our outsourcing activities or other material commitments, including vendor consigned inventories. We continue to enter into new agreements and maintain existing agreements to outsource certain activities, including elements of our manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities maintenance, certain information technology functions, and certain transactional general and administrative functions. The contractual cash obligations and commitments table presented above contains our obligations at June 28, 2009 under these arrangements and others. Actual expenditures will vary based on the volume of transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition to these obligations, certain of these agreements include early termination provisions and or cancellation penalties which could increase or decrease amounts actually paid. Consignment inventories, which are owned by vendors but located in our storage locations and warehouses, are not reported as our inventory until title is transferred to us or our purchase obligation is determined. At June 28, 2009, vendor owned inventories held at our locations and not reported as our inventory were $13.4 million. Long Term Debt During fiscal year 2009, we paid the outstanding principal balance of $250.0 million of our existing long term debt with ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (ABN AMRO) using existing cash balances. There were no penalties 40 Table of Contents associated with the payment. In connection with the payment, the parties agreed to terminate the ABN AMRO Credit Agreement and related Collateral Documents. ABN AMRO continues to be a participant in our operating leases with BNP Paribas Leasing Corporation and continues to provide banking services to us for customary fees. Our remaining total long term debt of $27.1 million as of June 28, 2009 is the result of obligations assumed in connection with the acquisition of SEZ, consisting of various bank loans and government subsidized technology loans supporting operating needs. Guarantees We account for our guarantees in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 45 Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires a company that is a guarantor to make specific disclosures about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. FIN 45 also requires a company (the guarantor) to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the obligations it has undertaken in issuing the guarantee. We have issued certain indemnifications to our lessors for taxes and general liability under some of our agreements. We have entered into certain insurance contracts which may limit our exposure to such indemnifications. As of June 28, 2009, we have not recorded any liability on our consolidated financial statements in connection with these indemnifications, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees. Generally, we indemnify, under pre determined conditions and limitations, our customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our products or services. We seek to limit our liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. We do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees. Warranties We offer standard warranties on our systems that generally run for a period of 12 months from system acceptance. The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. As of June 28, 2009, these securities are classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. 41 Table of Contents Fixed Income Securities Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate long term debt. At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. The following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. Market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. The hypothetical fair values as of June 28,2009 are as follows: Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateDecrease of X Basis Points Fair Value as ofJune 28, 2009 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateIncrease of X Basis Points (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 0.00% 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS (in thousands) Municipal Notes and Bonds $ 106,193 $ 105,334 $ 104,476 $ 103,618 $ 102,759 $ 101,901 $ 101,043 US Treasury & Agencies 25,078 24,780 24,482 24,184 23,885 23,587 23,289 Government Sponsored Enterprises 6,421 6,388 6,355 6,323 6,290 6,257 6,225 Foreign Government 1,025 1,025 1,025 1,024 1,024 1,024 1,023 Bank and Corporate Notes 229,179 228,843 228,507 228,171 227,835 227,499 227,163 Mortgage Backed Securities Residential 11,868 11,789 11,709 11,630 11,551 11,472 11,393 Mortgage Backed Securities Commercial 13,688 13,606 13,524 13,442 13,361 13,279 13,197 Total $ 393,450 $ 391,764 $ 390,078 $ 388,392 $ 386,706 $ 385,020 $ 383,333 We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. Publicly Traded Equity Securities The values of our equity investments in publicly traded equity securities are subject to equity price risk. The following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio. Potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, 25% were selected based on potential near term changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of June 28, 2009 are as follows: Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X% Decreasein Stock Price Fair Value as ofJune 28, 2009 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X% Increasein Stock Price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) Publicly traded equity securities $ 4,494 $ 5,093 $ 5,393 $ 5,992 $ 6,591 $ 6,891 $ 7,490 Foreign Currency Derivatives We conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. As such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars except for certain of our revenues that are denominated in Japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the Euro, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non U.S. sales and support offices which are denominated in the related countries local currency. We currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on Japanese yen denominated assets and forecasted Japanese yen denominated revenue and on net intercompany liability exposures denominated in Swiss francs, Euros and Taiwanese dollars. We currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. 42 Table of Contents To protect against the reduction in value of forecasted Japanese yen denominated revenues, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. These foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of Japanese yen denominated net receivable balances against the U.S. dollar and net intercompany liability exposures denominated in Swiss francs, Euros and Taiwanese dollars. The change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income and expense and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables also recorded in other income and expense, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. The notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges as of June 29, 2008 is shown in the table below. This table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. NOTIONALAMOUNT UnrealizedFX Loss /(Gain)June 28, 2009 VALUATION OF FX CONTRACTSGIVEN AN X% INCREASE (+) /DECREASE ( ) IN EACH FX RATE (in $ Millions) + / (10%) + / (15%) Cash Flow Hedge Forward Contracts Sold JPY/USD $ 24.1 $ 0.0 +/ $ 2.4 +/ $ 3.6 The notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges as of June 28, 2009 is shown in the table below. This table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. These changes in fair values would be offset in other income and expense by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. NOTIONALAMOUNT UnrealizedFX Loss /(Gain)June 28, 2009 VALUATION OF FX CONTRACTSGIVEN AN X% INCREASE (+) /DECREASE ( ) IN EACH FX RATE (in $ Millions) + / (10%) + / (15%) Balance Sheet Hedge JPY/USD $ 16.8 $ (0.1 ) +/ $ (1.7 ) +/ $ (2.5 ) USD/CHF $ (138.8 ) $ (0.0 ) +/ $ 13.9 +/ $ 20.8 USD/TWD $ (42.7 ) $ 0.1 +/ $ 4.3 +/ $ 6.4 USD/EUR $ (97.6 ) $ 0.0 +/ $ 9.8 +/ $ 14.6 Forward Contracts Sold $ (262.3 ) $ 0.1 +/ $ 26.2 +/ $ 39.4 Long Term Debt Our long term debt includes $3.3 million of variable rate debt based on local LIBOR rates plus a spread of 0.875 and is subject to adverse as well as beneficial changes in interest expense due to fluctuation in interest rates. We believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in our business activities. Based upon our current business outlook, our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at June 28, 2009 are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12 months. However, the current uncertainty in the global economic conditions and the recent disruption in credit markets have impacted customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. If the current situation deteriorates further, our business could suffer further negative impacts. 43 Table of Contents 
 
