Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this 2010 Form 10 K and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements in Part I of this 2010 Form 10 K). Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) provides a description of our results of operations and should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this 2010 Form 10 K. MD&A consists of the following sections: Executive Summary provides a summary of the key highlights of our results of operations and our managements assessment of material trends and uncertainties relevant to our business Results of Operations provides an analysis of operating results Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates discusses accounting policies that reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements Liquidity and Capital Resources provides an analysis of cash flows, contractual obligations and financial position Executive Summary We design, manufacture, market, refurbish, and service semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and are recognized as a major provider of such equipment to the worldwide semiconductor industry. Our customers include semiconductor memory and foundry manufacturers that make DRAM, flash memory, and logic integrated circuits for a wide range of consumer and industrial electronics. Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process and preparation steps that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. We leverage our expertise in the areas of etch and single wafer clean to develop processing solutions that typically benefit our customers through lower defect rates, enhanced yields, faster processing time, and or reduced cost as well as by facilitating their ability to meet more stringent performance and design standards. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and has historically experienced periodic and pronounced downturns and upturns. Todays leading indicators of change in customer investment patterns may not be any more reliable than in prior years. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), supply, demand, prices for semiconductors, customer capacity requirements, and our ability to develop, acquire, and market competitive products. For these and other reasons, our results of operations for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Adverse conditions in the global economy during 2008 and 2009 severely reduced customer demand for our products, resulting in reduced revenue and profits throughout fiscal 2009. After three quarters of net losses, we returned to profitability in the September 2009 quarter as worldwide demand for wafer fabrication equipment began to recover. Our shipments, revenue and net income increased significantly in fiscal year 2010 compared to 2009, as both industry and global economic conditions continued to improve. We expect the same to be true for calendar year 2010 versus calendar year 2009 given our current view of wafer fabrication equipment spending. We believe that, over the long term, demand for our products will continue to increase as our customers capital expenditures increase to meet growing demand for semiconductor devices. However, historically, any improvement in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment occurs at an uneven pace. Accordingly, any forecasts about demand for wafer fabrication equipment in the near term are subject to uncertainty, and we could experience significant volatility in our quarterly results of operations over the next several quarters. 24 Table of Contents The following summarizes certain key annual financial information for the periods indicated below: Year Ended June 27,2010 June 28,2009 June 29,2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 (in thousands, except per share data and percentages) Revenue $ 2,133,776 $ 1,115,946 $ 2,474,911 $ 1,017,830 91.2 % $ (1,358,965 ) 54.9 % Gross margin 969,935 388,734 1,173,406 $ 581,201 149.5 % $ (784,672 ) 66.9 % Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 45.5 % 34.8 % 47.4 % 10.7 % 12.6 % Total operating expenses 544,525 669,977 663,975 $ (125,452 ) 18.7 % $ 6,002 0.9 % Net income (loss) 346,669 (302,148 ) 439,349 $ 648,817 214.7 % $ (741,497 ) 168.8 % Diluted net income (loss) per share $ 2.71 $ (2.41 ) $ 3.47 $ 5.12 212.4 % $ (5.88 ) 169.5 % Fiscal year 2010 results compared with fiscal year 2009 results reflect continued improvement in the global business environment and in the semiconductor industry, improved foundry fabrication utilization and an increase in the rate of next generation DRAM and NAND technology conversions by leading memory companies. This comparison is in sharp contrast to the decline in revenue in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, and the resulting net loss in 2009. Throughout calendar year 2009 and the first half of calendar year 2010, we maintained our investments in new product R&D to defend our market share and win new application share. Our activities also focused on improving customer productivity in our installed base by delivering continuously improved performance and lower cost of ownership. We continued to develop the operational capability to rapidly respond to short lead time customer orders, and believe that these activities will allow us to maintain and grow our cash position over time. We believe that the total market for wafer fabrication equipment will increase substantially in calendar year 2010 as compared to 2009 and currently anticipate year on year growth in our customer shipments as a result of both expansion of the market as a whole and increases in our market share. While conditions in our industry have clearly improved and we currently anticipate industry and market share growth in calendar year 2010, we cannot predict the robustness or pace of any macroeconomic recovery. The electronics and semiconductor industries remain significantly linked to growth in worldwide GDP and consumer spending. Fiscal year 2010 revenues increased 91% compared to fiscal year 2009, primarily reflecting increased system shipments driven by growth in customer demand. Fiscal year 2010 shipments were approximately $2.3 billion and increased 136% as compared to fiscal year 2009. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue for the fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to increased revenue along with improved factory utilization and a more favorable product mix as well as a decrease in restructuring and asset impairment charges recorded in cost of goods sold. Operating expenses in fiscal year 2010 decreased as compared to fiscal year 2009. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in restructuring charges and asset and goodwill impairments from approximately $141 million in fiscal year 2009 to $21 million in fiscal year 2010 and a credit in fiscal year 2010 of approximately $39 million related to a reversal of accrued liabilities due to final settlement of matters associated with our Internal Revenue Code Section 409A expenses from the 2007 voluntary independent stock option review as compared to a charge of $3 million in fiscal year 2009. These factors were partially offset by the restoration of employee salaries and benefits, as well as higher variable compensation expense associated with our improved profitability. Our cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances totaled approximately $992 million as of June 27, 2010 compared to $758 million as of June 28, 2009. We generated approximately $351 million in net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal year 2010, compared to net use of cash by operating activities of $78 million in fiscal year 2009. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations Shipments and Backlog Year Ended June 27, 2010 June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 Shipments (in millions) $ 2,304 $ 976 $ 2,367 North America 8 % 16 % 16 % Europe 7 % 11 % 9 % Japan 15 % 20 % 20 % Korea 27 % 21 % 22 % Taiwan 32 % 20 % 20 % Asia Pacific 11 % 12 % 13 % Shipments for fiscal year 2010 increased by 136% compared to fiscal year 2009, reflecting improvements in the industry and economic environment as noted above. Shipments for fiscal year 2009 decreased sequentially from fiscal year 2008 by 59% reflecting declines in customer demand, consistent with the deterioration in the general economy and, specifically, the downturn in the semiconductor industry which had been impacted by a decline in consumer spending for electronic goods. During fiscal year 2010, 300 millimeter applications represented approximately 96% of total systems shipments and 96% of total systems shipments were for applications at less than or equal to the 65 nanometer technology node. During fiscal year 2009, 300 millimeter applications represented approximately 90% of total systems shipments and 87% of total systems shipments were for applications at less than or equal to the 65 nanometer technology node. Fiscal year 2010 shipments consisted of: Memory at approximately 61%, Foundry at 29% and Integrated Device Manufacturers and Logic at 10%. Fiscal year 2009 shipments consisted of: Memory at approximately 58%, Foundry at 21%, and Integrated Device Manufacturers and Logic at 21%. Unshipped orders in backlog as of June 27, 2010 were approximately $667 million and increased from approximately $391 million as of June 28, 2009 consistent with improved spending commitments from our customers. Our unshipped orders backlog includes orders for systems, spares, and services. Please refer to Backlog in Part I Item 1, Business of this report for a description of our policies for adding to and adjusting backlog. Revenue Year Ended June 27, 2010 June 28, 2009 June 29, 2008 Revenue (in thousands) $ 2,133,776 $ 1,115,946 $ 2,474,911 North America 9 % 15 % 17 % Europe 6 % 11 % 10 % Japan 15 % 21 % 18 % Korea 25 % 21 % 22 % Taiwan 33 % 19 % 20 % Asia Pacific 12 % 13 % 13 % The revenue increase during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 reflected improvements in the industry and economic environments as noted above. The revenue decline during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 reflected adverse conditions in the global economy and semiconductor industry as noted above. Our revenue levels are generally correlated to the amount of shipments and our installation and acceptance timelines. The overall Asia region continues to account for a predominant portion of our revenues as a substantial amount of the worldwide capacity additions for semiconductor manufacturing continues to occur in this region, and the concentration of revenue within the overall Asia region increased in fiscal year 2010 as it had in fiscal year 2009. Our deferred revenue balance increased to $207.4 million as of June 27, 2010 compared to $64.7 million as of June 28, 2009, consistent with increased customer spending levels during fiscal year 2010. Our deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to Japanese customers, to whom title does not transfer 26 Table of Contents until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue value from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $52 million as of June 27, 2010 compared to $13 million as of June 28, 2009. Gross Margin Year Ended June 27,2010 June 28,2009 June 29,2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross margin $ 969,935 $ 388,734 $ 1,173,406 $ 581,201 149.5 % $ (784,672 ) 66.9 % Percent of total revenue 45.5 % 34.8 % 47.4 % 10.7 % 12.6 % The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to improved product mix and more favorable absorption from the factories. Additionally, there was a decrease in restructuring and asset impairments included in gross margin from approximately $21 million in fiscal year 2009 to $3 million in fiscal year 2010 and a credit in fiscal year 2010 of approximately $6 million related to a reversal of accrued liabilities due to final settlement of matters associated with our Internal Revenue Code Section 409A expenses from the 2007 voluntary independent stock option review. The decrease in gross margin as a percent of revenue for fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to decreased factory and field utilization as a result of reduced shipment volumes on declining customer demand, changes in our product mix, customer concentration, and $21 million of one time restructuring and asset impairment expenses, partially offset by favorable warranty performance. Research and Development Year Ended June 27,2010 June 28,2009 June 29,2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 (in thousands, except percentages) Research & development $ 320,859 $ 288,269 $ 323,759 $ 32,590 11.3 % $ (35,490 ) 11.0 % Percent of total revenue 15.0 % 25.8 % 13.1 % 10.8 % 12.7 % We continue to make significant investments in R&D focused on plasma etch, single wafer clean and other semiconductor manufacturing products. The increase in R&D spending during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to higher other employee compensation, salaries, and benefits of $25 million, mainly as a result of stronger company profitably, and higher outside services and supplies of $5 million related to customer penetration activities. Approximately 24% and 79% of fiscal years 2010 and 2009 systems revenues, respectively, were derived from products introduced over the previous two years, which is reflective of our continued investment in new products and technologies. The decline in R&D spending during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, included approximately $8 million of lower salary and benefits related to cost savings measures, $11 million in lower other employee compensation on lower profits and a $26 million decrease in outside services and supplies, partially offset by $5 million in depreciation and amortization mainly related to the inclusion of the acquisition of SEZ in March 2008. Selling, General and Administrative Year Ended June 27,2010 June 28,2009 June 29,2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general & administrative (SG&A) $ 240,942 $ 233,061 $ 287,282 $ 7,881 3.4 % $ (54,221 ) 18.9 % Percent of total revenue 11.3 % 20.9 % 11.6 % 9.6 % 9.3 % 27 Table of Contents The growth in SG&A expense during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 was driven by increases of approximately $26 million in other employee compensation as a result of increased company profitability offset by a $9 million decline in depreciation, rent and utilities expenses primarily as a result of restructuring activities, and $7 million due to a non recurring accounts receivable reserve recorded for specific distressed customers in fiscal year 2009. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 was driven by a reduction of approximately $34 million in other employee compensation as a result of lower company profitability, a reduction of $7 million in salaries and benefits related to cost savings measures, a reduction of $19 million in costs incurred as a result of the voluntary independent stock option review that was completed in fiscal year 2008, and a reduction of $5 million in outside services and supplies, partially offset by a $7 million charge to increase the reserves against our receivables balance for distressed customers. Goodwill Impairment During fiscal year 2009, a combination of factors, including the economic environment, a sustained decline in our market valuation, and a decline in our operating results indicated possible impairment of our goodwill. We performed an impairment analysis and concluded that the fair value of our Clean Product Group had been reduced below its carrying value. As a result, we recorded a non cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $96.3 million during fiscal year 2009. No indicators of impairment resulted from our fiscal 2010 assessment. The calculation of the goodwill impairment charge is based on estimates of future operating results. If our future operating results do not meet current forecasts or if we experience a sustained decline in our market capitalization that is determined to be indicative of a reduction in fair value of our businesses, an additional impairment analysis may be required which may result in further impairment charges. Restructuring and Asset Impairments During fiscal year 2008, we incurred expenses for restructuring and asset impairment charges of $19.0 million related to the integration of SEZ and overall streamlining of our combined Clean Product Group (June 2008 Plan). We incurred additional expenses of $19.0 million under the June 2008 Plan during fiscal year 2009. The charges during fiscal year 2008 included severance and related benefits costs, excess facilities related costs and certain asset impairments associated with our initial product line integration road maps. The charges during fiscal year 2009 primarily included severance and related benefits costs and certain asset impairments associated with our product line integration road maps. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded a recovery of $2.2 million related primarily to inventory previously restructured in connection with our initial product line integration road maps. During fiscal year 2009, we incurred expenses of $17.8 million for restructuring and asset impairment charges designed to better align our cost structure with our business opportunities in consideration of market and economic uncertainties (December 2008 Plan). The charges consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. During fiscal year 2009, we also incurred expenses of $28.6 million for restructuring and asset impairment charges designed to align our cost structure with our outlook for the current economic environment and future business opportunities (March 2009 Plan). The charges during fiscal year 2009 consisted primarily of severance and related benefits costs as well as certain facilities related costs and asset impairments. The Company incurred additional expenses of $20.9 million during fiscal 2010 under the March 2009 Plan consisting primarily of certain facilities charges related to the reassessment of future obligations for previously restructured leases, severance and related benefits costs, and asset impairments. In addition to charges incurred under specific restructuring plans, during fiscal year 2010 we incurred $6.0 million of asset impairment charges related to production efficiencies and shifts in product demands. For further details related to restructuring and asset impairment, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents 409A Expense Following the voluntary independent review of our historical option grant process, we considered whether Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and similar provisions of state law would apply to stock options that were found, under applicable accounting guidance, to have intrinsic value at the time of their respective measurement dates. If a stock option is not considered as issued with an exercise price of at least the fair market value of the underlying stock, it may be subject to penalty taxes under Section 409A and similar provisions of state law. In such a case, taxes may be assessed not only on the intrinsic value increase, but on the entire stock option gain as measured at various times. On March 30, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized us to assume potential tax liabilities of certain employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and certain executive officers, relating to options that might be subject to Section 409A and similar provisions of state law. Those liabilities totaled $50.9 million; $44.5 million was recorded in operating expenses and $6.4 million in cost of goods sold in our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal year 2008. We incurred $3.2 million of expense during fiscal year 2009 consisting of interest and legal fees. During fiscal year 2010, we reached final settlement of matters associated with our 409A expenses with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and California Franchise Tax Board (FTB) resulting in a credit of $44.4 million due to the reversal of 409A liabilities. The determinations from the voluntary independent stock option review are more fully described in Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of our 2007 Form 10 K. Legal Judgment Aspect Systems, Inc. (Aspect) sued us for breach of contract and various business torts arising out of a transaction in which we licensed Aspect to sell certain of our legacy Autoetch and Drytek products. The case went to trial in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona in December of 2008, resulting in a jury verdict in favor of Aspect. We filed an appeal from the ensuing judgment, which is now pending. We recorded the amount of the legal judgment of $4.6 million in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended June 28, 2009. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consisted of the following: Year Ended June 27,2010 June 28,2009 June 29,2008 FY10 vs. FY09 FY09 vs. FY08 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 8,598 $ 24,283 $ 51,194 $ (15,685 ) 64.6 % $ (26,911 ) 52.6 % Interest expense (994 ) (6,497 ) (12,674 ) $ (5,503 ) 84.7 % $ (6,177 ) 48.7 % Foreign exchange gain (loss) (103 ) 922 31,070 $ (1,025 ) 111.2 % $ (30,148 ) 97.0 % Other, net (2,770 ) (558 ) (2,045 ) $ (2,212 ) 396.4 % $ 1,487 72.7 % $ 4,731 $ 18,150 $ 67,545 The decrease in interest income during fiscal year 2010 compared with fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to decreases in our average cash and investment balances and decreases in interest rate yields. The decrease in average balances was primarily due to treasury stock repurchases, capital expenditures, and principal payments on long term debt. The decrease in interest income during fiscal year 2009 compared with fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in our average balances of cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and restricted cash and investments throughout fiscal year 2009 and, to a lesser extent, decreases in interest rate yields. The decrease in average balances was primarily related to payment of the outstanding principal balance of $250.0 million of our existing long term debt with ABN AMRO Bank N.C. (ABN AMRO) during fiscal year 2009 The decrease in interest expense during fiscal years 2010 and 2009 as compared with the prior year was due to our $250.0 million loan payment to ABN AMRO during fiscal year 2009, principal payments on long term debt and capital leases, and to a lesser extent, decreases in interest rate yields. 29 Table of Contents Foreign exchange gains in fiscal year 2009 were related to un hedged portions of the balance sheet exposures, primarily in the Japanese yen, Taiwanese dollar and Euro and were partially offset by $4.0 million of deferred net losses associated with ineffectiveness related to forecasted transactions that were no longer considered probable of occurring and were recognized in Other income (expense), net in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations during fiscal year 2009. Included in foreign exchange gains during fiscal year 2008 were gains associated with the acquisition of SEZ of $42.7 million relating primarily to the settlement of a hedge of the Swiss franc. These acquisition related net foreign exchange gains were partially offset by other foreign exchange losses of approximately $11.6 million during fiscal year 2008; these offsetting losses were primarily due to our foreign currency denominated liabilities with non U.S. dollar functional subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar weakened against certain currencies, primarily the Euro and Taiwan dollar resulting in the foreign exchange loss. In fiscal year 2009, we implemented a balance sheet hedging program to manage Swiss franc, Euro and Taiwanese dollar foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the impact of those fluctuations on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. These exposures are related to monetary assets and liabilities in these currencies. A description of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates can be found in the Risk Factors section of this report under the heading Our Future Success Depends on International Sales and Management of Global Operations and in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other expenses increased during fiscal year 2010 as compared with 2009 as the result of increased charitable contributions and the recognition of a $0.9 million realized loss on investments due to an other than temporary impairment charge. Income Tax Expense Our annual income tax expense was $83.5 million, $39.1 million, and $137.6 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 was 19.4%, (14.8%), and 23.9%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2010 is primarily due to the increase in the Companys income, the change in geographical mix of income between higher and lower tax jurisdictions, adjustments for previously estimated tax liabilities upon the filing of our U.S. tax return and decrease in Federal R&D credit due to the expiration of the credit on December 31, 2009. The fiscal year 2009 effective tax rate was (14.8%), compared to the fiscal year 2008 effective tax rate of 23.9%. The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to the Companys loss position. In fiscal year 2009 there were certain events that resulted in a net tax expense. These events included favorable adjustments for previously estimated tax liabilities upon the filing of our U.S. and certain foreign income tax returns and the R&D credit reinstatement offset by tax expense for a change in California law, and a valuation allowance placed on certain foreign deferred tax assets. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. Our gross deferred tax assets, composed primarily of reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible and tax credit carryforwards, were $137.4 million and $157.0 million at the end of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. These gross deferred tax assets were offset by deferred tax liabilities of $36.3 million and $41.9 million at the end of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, and a valuation allowance of $37.0 million and $35.5 million at the end of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. Our fiscal years 2010 and 2009 valuation allowance of $37.0 million and $35.5 million relate to certain California and foreign deferred tax assets. 30 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional valuation allowance on certain California deferred tax assets reflecting the potential impacts of the California law related to the repeal of the cost of performance sales factor sourcing rule and the single sales factor apportionment election. We also recorded a reduction of valuation allowance against certain foreign deferred tax assets due to an increase in the forecasted income for certain foreign entities. We evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly and will continue to assess the need for additional valuation allowances, if any. Uncertain Tax Positions We reevaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain judgments, estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We based our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believed to be applicable and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements are described in Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and or subjective judgments, often regarding estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred and title has passed or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection of the receivable is reasonably assured, and we have completed our system installation obligations, received customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our installation or customer acceptance obligations. If terms of the sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first. If the practices of a customer do not provide for a written acceptance or the terms of sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, we recognize revenue when it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed to customer specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, we recognize revenue upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance obligations. We allocate revenue from multiple element arrangements among the separate elements based on their relative fair values, provided the elements have value on a stand alone basis, there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value, the arrangement does not include a general right of return relative to the delivered item and delivery, or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. The maximum revenue we recognize on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. We generally recognize revenue related to sales of spare parts and system upgrade kits upon shipment. We generally recognize revenue related to services upon completion of the services requested by a customer order. We recognize revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Inventory Valuation: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using standard costs which generally approximate actual costs on a first in, first out basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the quantity on hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased components, subassemblies, and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of perpetual inventory records through periodic 31 Table of Contents physical counts of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title transfer to the customer. Generally, title transfer is documented in the terms of sale. When the terms of sale do not specify title transfer, we assume title transfers when we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier unless other customer practices prevail. Transfer of title for shipments to Japanese customers generally occurs at the time of customer acceptance. We reassess standard costs as needed but annually at a minimum, and reflect achievable acquisition costs. Acquisition costs are generally based on the most recent vendor contract prices for purchased parts, normalized assembly and test labor utilization levels, methods of manufacturing, and normalized overhead. Manufacturing labor and overhead costs are attributed to individual product standard costs at a level planned to absorb spending at average utilization volumes. We eliminate all intercompany profits related to the sales and purchases of inventory between our legal entities from our consolidated financial statements. Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all inventories including manufacturing raw materials, work in process, finished goods, and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory in excess of managements estimated usage requirements over the next 12 to 36 months is written down to its estimated market value if less than cost. Estimates of market value include, but are not limited to, managements forecasts related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, and possible alternative uses. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional inventory write downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of goods sold in the period in which we make the revision. Warranty: Typically, the sale of semiconductor capital equipment includes providing parts and service warranty to customers as part of the overall price of the system. We provide standard warranties for our systems that generally run for a period of 12 months from system acceptance. When appropriate, we record a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system when we recognize revenue. We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves are related to specific systems. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical activity which uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic region, and any known factors such as tool reliability trends. All actual or estimated parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those established reserves on a system by system basis. Actual warranty expenses are accounted for on a system by system basis and may differ from our original estimates. While we periodically monitor the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are identified. In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer customer paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and warranty services with a fixed payment amount are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract. Related costs are recorded either as incurred or when related liabilities are determined to be probable and estimable. Equity based Compensation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) and Employee Stock Plans: GAAP requires us to recognize the fair value of equity based compensation in net income. We determine the fair value of our restricted stock units based upon the fair market value of Company stock at the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of our stock options and ESPP awards using the Black Scholes option valuation model. This model requires us to input highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award. We amortize the fair value of equity based awards over the vesting periods of the awards, and we have elected to use the straight line method of amortization. We make quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our tax credit pool related to equity based compensation to determine if there are any deficiencies that we are required to recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. We will only recognize a benefit from stock based compensation in paid in capital if we realize an incremental tax benefit after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock based compensation on the research tax credit through the income statement (continuing operations) rather than through paid in capital. We have also elected to net deferred tax assets and the associated valuation allowance related to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for the accumulated stock award tax benefits for income tax footnote disclosure purposes. We will track these stock award attributes separately and will only recognize these attributes through paid in capital. 32 Table of Contents Income Taxes: Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effect of carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at the time. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that can differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are recorded when identified. We recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more likely than not that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Please refer to Note 14 of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two step process prescribed within the interpretation. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period such determination is made. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price in each business combination exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. We allocate the carrying value of goodwill to our reporting units. We test goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment at least annually. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and we review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the intangible asset may not be recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We review goodwill at least annually for impairment. If certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, we would perform an impairment test of goodwill at that date. In testing for a potential impairment of goodwill, we: (1) allocate goodwill to our reporting units to which the acquired goodwill relates; (2) estimate the fair value of our reporting units; and (3) determine the carrying value (book value) of those reporting units, as some of the assets and liabilities related to those reporting units are not held by those reporting units but by a corporate function. Prior to this allocation of the assets to the reporting units, we are required to assess long lived assets for impairment. Furthermore, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must estimate the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities of that reporting unit, in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation for an acquired business. This can require independent valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as in process research and development and developed technology. Only after this process is completed can the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, be determined. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a weighted combination of both market and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. 33 Table of Contents Under the market approach, we use information regarding the reporting unit as well as publicly available industry information to determine various financial multiples to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. In estimating the fair value of a reporting unit for the purposes of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of our reporting units, including estimated growth rates and assumptions about the economic environment. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment involved in determining the cash flows attributable to a reporting unit. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets to the estimated balance sheets of our reporting units. We also consider our market capitalization and that of our competitors on the date we perform the analysis. Changes in judgment on these assumptions and estimates could result in a goodwill impairment charge. As a result, several factors could result in impairment of a material amount of our goodwill balance in future periods, including, but not limited to: (1) weakening of the global economy, weakness in the semiconductor equipment industry, or failure of the Company to reach its internal forecasts, which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows and reduce the estimated discounted cash flow value of our reporting units; and (2) a decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, if we determine that the decline is sustained and indicates a reduction in the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. In addition, the value we assign to intangible assets, other than goodwill, is based on our estimates and judgments regarding expectations such as the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from our estimates, we may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) revised the applicable accounting guidance for business combinations, which establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. The revised guidance also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The accounting treatment of tax benefits from acquired companies has changed under the revised guidance. Any changes to the tax benefits associated with the valuation allowances related to business combinations will be recorded through income tax expense. We adopted the revised guidance on June 29, 2009, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance that establishes accounting and reporting standards for the treatment of noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary. Noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary are to be reported as a component of equity in the consolidated financial statements and any retained noncontrolling equity investment upon deconsolidation of a subsidiary is initially measured at fair value. We adopted the guidance on June 29, 2009, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance to require publicly traded companies to disclose on the fair value of financial instruments in interim financial statements. We adopted this guidance on June 29, 2009, and the adoption resulted in expanded disclosures, and the adoption did not have a significant impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2009, the FASB issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification). The Codification is the single source for all authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied for financial statements issued for periods ending after September 15, 2009. The Codification does not change GAAP and did not have a significant impact on our financial statements. In September 2009, the FASB ratified guidance from the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) regarding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. This guidance addresses criteria for separating the consideration in multiple element arrangements and will require companies to allocate the overall consideration to each deliverable by using a best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement in 34 Table of Contents the absence of vendor specific objective evidence or other third party evidence of the selling price. This guidance will be effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We will adopt this guidance in the beginning of fiscal year 2011 and do not believe the adoption will have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In September 2009, the FASB also ratified guidance from the EITF regarding certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This guidance modifies the scope of the software revenue recognition rules to exclude (a) non software components of tangible products and (b) software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. This guidance will be effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We will adopt this guidance in the beginning of fiscal year 2011 and do not believe the adoption will have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Total gross cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances were $991.7 million at the end of fiscal year 2010 compared to $757.8 million at the end of fiscal year 2009. This increase was primarily due to cash provided by operations, which was partially offset by treasury stock purchases. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $351 million during fiscal year 2010 consisted of (in millions): Net income $ 346.7 Non cash charges: Depreciation and amortization 71.4 Equity based compensation 50.5 Restructuring charges, net 24.7 Net tax benefit on equity based compensation plans 0.4 Deferred income taxes 13.7 Changes in operating asset and liability accounts (159.9 ) Other 3.2 $ 350.7 Significant changes in operating asset and liability accounts included the following uses of cash: increases in accounts receivable of $246.7 million, inventories of $79.7 million, and prepaid and other expenses of $23.6 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by the following sources of cash: increases in trade accounts payable of $71.6 million, deferred profit of $77.4 million, and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $41.1 million. These changes in overall cash were all consistent with increased business volumes. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities during fiscal year 2010 was $103.4 million which was primarily due to net purchases of investments of $78.0 million and capital expenditures of $35.6 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by transfer of restricted cash and investments of $13.2 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal year 2010 was $72.7 million which was due to stock repurchases of $93.0 million and principal payments on long term debt and capital lease obligations of $21.0 million. These uses were partially offset by the following sources of cash: proceeds from the reissuance of treasury stock of $17.5 million, proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $13.4 million, and the excess tax benefit on equity based compensation plans of $10.2 million. Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure. Based 35 Table of Contents upon our current business outlook, our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at June 27, 2010 are expected to be sufficient to support our presently anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures through at least the next 12 months. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products. If we should require additional funding we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that if we require additional funds, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that any funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We have certain obligations to make future payments under various contracts. Consistent with GAAP, some of these are recorded on our balance sheet and some are not. Obligations that are recorded on our balance sheet include our long term debt and capital lease obligations. Our off balance sheet arrangements include contractual relationships for operating leases, purchase obligations, and guarantees. Our contractual cash obligations and commitments relating to long term debt, capital leases, and off balance sheet agreements are included in the following table. These amounts exclude $110.5 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax benefits because we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or time of settlement. See Note 14, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. OperatingLeases CapitalLeases PurchaseObligations Long termDebt andInterest Expense Total (in thousands) Payments due by period: Less than 1 year $ 8,012 $ 1,671 $ 128,469 $ 3,672 $ 141,824 1 3 years 9,160 3,337 59,676 3,394 75,567 3 5 years 146,045 2,746 26,649 175,440 Over 5 years 7,875 9,206 7,715 24,796 Total $ 171,092 $ 16,960 $ 222,509 $ 7,066 $ 417,627 Operating Leases We lease most of our administrative, R&D and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices and certain equipment under non cancelable operating leases, which expire at various dates through fiscal year 2016. Certain of our facility leases for buildings located at our Fremont, California headquarters and certain other facility leases provide us with an option to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation. Included in the Operating Leases 3 5 years section of the table above is $141.7 million in guaranteed residual values for lease agreements relating to certain properties at our Fremont, California campus and properties in Livermore, California. The remaining operating lease balances primarily relate to non cancelable facility related operating leases. Capital Leases Capital leases reflect building lease obligations assumed from our acquisition of SEZ and an office equipment lease. The amounts in the table above include the interest portion of payment obligations. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations consist of significant contractual obligations either on an annual basis or over multi year periods related to our outsourcing activities or other material commitments, including vendor consigned inventories. We continue to enter into new agreements and maintain existing agreements to outsource certain 36 Table of Contents activities, including elements of our manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities maintenance, certain information technology functions, and certain transactional general and administrative functions. The table presented above contains our purchase obligations at June 27, 2010 under these arrangements and others. Actual expenditures will vary based on the volume of transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition to these obligations, certain of these agreements include early termination provisions and or cancellation penalties that could increase or decrease amounts actually paid. Consignment inventories, which are owned by vendors but located in our storage locations and warehouses, are not reported as our inventory until title is transferred to us or our purchase obligation is determined. At June 27, 2010, vendor owned inventories held at our locations and not reported as our inventory were $33.7 million. Long Term Debt During fiscal year 2010 we made $21.0 million in principal payments on long term debt and capital leases. During fiscal year 2009, we paid the outstanding principal balance of $250.0 million of our existing long term debt with ABN AMRO using existing cash balances. There were no penalties associated with the payment. In connection with the payment, the parties agreed to terminate the ABN AMRO Credit Agreement and related Collateral Documents. ABN AMRO continues to be a participant in our operating leases with BNP Paribas Leasing Corporation and continues to provide banking services to us for customary fees. Our remaining total long term debt, excluding interest, of $7.0 million as of June 27, 2010 is the result of obligations we assumed in connection with our acquisition of SEZ, consisting of various bank loans and government subsidized technology loans supporting operating needs. Guarantees We have issued certain indemnifications to our lessors for taxes and general liability under some of our lease agreements. We have entered into certain insurance contracts that may limit our exposure to these indemnification obligations. As of June 27, 2010, we have not recorded any liability on our consolidated financial statements in connection with these indemnifications, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees. Generally, we indemnify our customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our products or services under pre determined conditions and limitations. We seek to limit our liability for any indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations. We do not believe, based on information available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these indemnities. Warranties We provide standard warranties on our systems that generally run for a period of 12 months from system acceptance. The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known considerations such as the impact of system reliability improvements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. As of June 27, 2010, the Companys mutual funds are classified as trading securities. Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. Any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as Other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. All of the Companys other short term investments are classified as available for sale and consequently are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. 37 Table of Contents Fixed Income Securities Our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. Market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. The hypothetical fair values as of June 27, 2010 were as follows: Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateDecrease of X Basis Points Fair Value as ofJune 27, 2010 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an Interest RateIncrease of X Basis Points (150 BPS) (100 BPS) (50 BPS) 0.00% 50 BPS 100 BPS 150 BPS (in thousands) Municipal Notes and Bonds $ 106,397 $ 105,565 $ 104,733 $ 103,903 $ 103,070 $ 102,238 $ 101,407 US Treasury & Agencies 3,484 3,472 3,459 3,447 3,435 3,423 3,411 Government Sponsored Enterprises 6,168 6,132 6,096 6,060 6,025 5,989 5,953 Foreign Government 1,010 1,009 1,009 1,008 1,007 1,006 1,005 Bank and Corporate Notes 292,289 291,338 290,388 289,437 288,487 287,536 286,586 Mortgage Backed Securities Residential 6,198 6,167 6,137 6,106 6,076 6,046 6,016 Mortgage Backed Securities Commercial 43,844 43,551 43,257 42,964 42,671 42,377 42,084 Total $ 459,390 $ 457,234 $ 455,079 $ 452,925 $ 450,771 $ 448,615 $ 446,462 We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. Publicly Traded Securities The values of our investments in publicly traded securities are subject to market price risk. The following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. Potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near term changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of June 27, 2010 were as follows: Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X% Decreasein Security Price Fair Value as ofJune 27, 2010 Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X% Increasein Security Price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) Mutual Funds $ 13,593 $ 15,406 $ 16,312 $ 18,124 $ 19,937 $ 20,843 $ 22,655 Publicly Traded Equity Securities $ 5,739 $ 6,504 $ 6,886 $ 7,636 $ 8,417 $ 8,799 $ 9,565 Foreign Currency Derivatives We conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. As such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars except for certain revenues denominated in Japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the Euro, certain spares and service contracts denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non U.S. sales and support offices denominated in the related 38 Table of Contents countries local currency. We currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on Japanese yen denominated revenue and monetary asset and liability exposure, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Swiss francs, Euros and Taiwanese dollars. We currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. To protect against the reduction in value of forecasted Japanese yen denominated revenue, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. These foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of Japanese yen denominated monetary assets and liabilities against the U.S. dollar and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Swiss francs, Euros and Taiwanese dollars. The change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. The notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of June 27, 2010 are shown in the table below. This table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. NotionalAmount UnrealizedFX Loss/(Gain)June 27, 2010 Valuation of Fx ContractsGiven an X% Increase (+)/Decrease( ) in Each Fx Rate + / (10%) + / (15%) (in $ Millions) Cash Flow Hedge Forward Contracts Sold JPY/USD $ 73.3 ($ 0.0 ) $ 7.3 $ 11.0 The notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of June 27, 2010 are shown in the table below. This table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. These changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. NotionalAmount UnrealizedFX Loss/(Gain)June 27, 2010 Valuation of Fx ContractsGiven an X% Increase (+)/Decrease( ) in Each Fx Rate + / (10%) + / (15%) (in $ Millions) Balance Sheet Hedge JPY/USD $ 75.3 $ 1.3 $ 7.5 $ 11.3 USD/CHF $ (188.6 ) $ (0.4 ) $ 18.9 $ 28.3 USD/TWD $ (66.0 ) $ 0.9 $ 6.6 $ 9.9 USD/EUR $ (38.2 ) $ (0.0 ) $ 3.8 $ 5.7 Forward Contracts Sold $ (217.5 ) $ 1.8 $ 36.8 $ 55.2 Long Term Debt Our long term debt includes $1.8 million of variable rate debt based on LIBOR plus a spread of 0.875 and is subject to adverse as well as beneficial changes in interest expense due to fluctuation in interest rates. We believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in our business activities. Based upon our current business outlook, our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments at June 27, 2010 are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated 39 Table of Contents levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12 months. In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products. Should additional funding be required, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. We believe that, in the event of such requirements, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us. 
 
