FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20050422213637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On April 19, 2005, Amgen Inc. ("Amgen" or the "Company") and Immunex Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amgen, "Immunex") and Wyeth (formerly American Home Products Corporation, "Wyeth") entered into Amendment No. 3 to Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement effective as of January 1, 2005 (the "Amendment") further amending the Amended and Restated Promotion Agreement dated as of December 16, 2001, as amended (the "Promotion Agreement"). The Promotion Agreement sets forth certain terms and conditions relating to the promotion of Enbrel in the United States and Canada. The Amendment amends certain portions of the Promotion Agreement to provide for the parties' agreement to share costs for certain full time equivalents employed by Wyeth and Immunex performing medical affairs functions (including medical and scientific strategic consultation, medical review of promotional materials and publication planning, medical work on clinical trial design, responses to medical inquiries, and implementation and execution of clinical programs) pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Promotion Agreement. The Amendment provides, among other things, that Wyeth and Immunex shall share equally all reasonable costs of medical affairs full time equivalents that are approved in advance by the parties and in accordance with the terms of the Amendment and the Promotion Agreement. The Amendment will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's next periodic filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


