FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20051025162444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 19, 2005, Amgen Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005. The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto.
 
In its press release the Company included certain historical non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2004. Reconciliations for such historical non-GAAP financial measures are attached to the press release set forth as Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto. The Company believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. These historical non-GAAP financial measures are in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP").
 
Three and nine months ended September 30, 2005
 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005, the Company's adjustments to GAAP financial measures relate to amounts associated with the write-off of the cost of a semi-completed manufacturing asset that will not be used due to a change in manufacturing strategy (the "Manufacturing Charge") and the Company's acquisitions of Tularik Inc. ("Tularik") in August 2004 (the "Tularik Acquisition") and Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") in July 2002 (the "Immunex Acquisition").
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the Company's adjustments to GAAP financial measures also relate to amounts associated with legal settlements incurred, net of amounts previously accrued, primarily related to settling a patent legal proceeding (the "Settlement Amounts"), the net gain realized upon the termination of the Company's manufacturing agreement with Genentech, Inc. ("Genentech") for the production of Enbrel at Genentech's manufacturing facility in South San Francisco (the "Genentech Termination") and the pro rata portion of the debt issuance costs that were immediately charged to interest expense (the "Convertible Notes Expense") as a result of certain holders of the Company's 30-year zero coupon senior convertible notes (the "Convertible Notes") exercising their March 1, 2005 put option and the related Convertible Notes being repaid in cash.
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported non-GAAP financial results for cost of sales and research and development ("R&D") expense. Cost of sales was adjusted to exclude the Manufacturing Charge. The Company believes that excluding the Manufacturing Charge provides a supplemental measure that will facilitate comparisons between periods in which such item did not occur. R&D expense was adjusted to exclude incremental compensation provided to certain Tularik employees for a limited period, principally related to non-cash compensation expense associated with stock options assumed in the Tularik Acquisition and amounts payable primarily under the Tularik short-term retention plan for the applicable period (the "Tularik Compensation Expense"). The Company believes that excluding the Tularik Compensation Expense provides a supplemental measure that will facilitate comparisons between periods before, during and after such expense is incurred.
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported non-GAAP adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share excluding the foregoing expense amounts for this period for the reasons discussed above as well as excluding the ongoing, non-cash amortization of acquired intangible assets associated with the Immunex Acquisition (primarily Enbrel) (the "Intangible Assets Amortization"). The Company believes that excluding the Intangible Assets Amortization treats those assets as if the Company had developed them internally in the past, and thus provides a supplemental measure of profitability in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported non-GAAP financial results for cost of sales and R&D expense that exclude both of the items identified above as being excluded in the three months ended September 30, 2005 for the reasons discussed above. Also for this period, the Company reported non-GAAP financial results for interest and other (expense)/income, net adjusted to exclude the net gain realized upon the Genentech Termination and the Convertible Notes Expense. The Company believes that excluding the the net gain
 
realized upon the Genentech Termination and the Convertible Notes Expense provides supplemental measures that will facilitate comparisons to periods in which such items did not occur.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported non-GAAP adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share that exclude all of the items identified above as being excluded in the three months ended September 30, 2005 for the reasons discussed above. For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the non-GAAP financial results the Company reported for adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share also excluded the Settlement Amounts, the net gain realized upon the Genentech Termination and the Convertible Notes Expense. The Company believes that excluding the Settlement Amounts, the net gain realized upon the Genentech Termination and the Convertible Notes Expense provide supplemental measures that facilitate comparisons to periods in which such items did not occur.
 
Three and nine months ended September 30, 2004
 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004, the Company's adjustments to GAAP financial measures relate to amounts associated with the Tularik Acquisition and the Immunex Acquisition and amounts associated with the Company's share of the loss incurred relating to the settlement of a patent litigation between the Company and Genentech, Inc. (the "Genentech Settlement").
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2004, the Company reported non-GAAP financial results for R&D and selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses. R&D and SG&A expenses were each adjusted to exclude the Tularik Compensation Expense for the applicable period. The Company believes that excluding the Tularik Compensation Expense provides a supplemental measure that will facilitate comparisons between periods before, during and after such expenses is incurred. SG&A expense was further adjusted for this period to exclude the impact to the Company of its share of third party reimbursement received by Kirin-Amgen, Inc. related to the Genentech Settlement. The Company believes that excluding the amounts related to the Genentech Settlement provides a supplemental measure that will facilitate comparisons between periods in which such items did not occur.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2004, the Company reported non-GAAP financial results for the following operating expenses: cost of sales, R&D and SG&A which were each adjusted to exclude incremental compensation payable to certain Immunex employees for a limited period, principally under the Immunex short-term retention plan for the applicable period. The Company believes that excluding such incremental compensation provides a supplemental measure that will facilitate comparisons between periods before, during and after such expenses are incurred. R&D and SG&A expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 were also adjusted to exclude the Tularik Compensation Expense for the reasons discussed above. Further, SG&A expense for this period was adjusted to exclude the impact to the Company of its share of third party reimbursement received by Kirin-Amgen, Inc. related to the Genentech Settlement for the reasons discussed above.
 
For the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2004, the Company reported non-GAAP adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share, excluding the foregoing operating expense amounts for these periods for the reasons discussed above, as well as excluding the Intangible Assets Amortization and the non-cash expense associated with writing off the acquired in-process research and development related to the Tularik Acquisition (the "Tularik IPR&D Write-off"). The Company believes that excluding the Intangible Assets Amortization treats those assets as if the Company had developed them internally in the past, and thus provides a supplemental measure of profitability in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property. The Company believes that excluding the Tularik IPR&D Write-off provides a supplemental measure that will facilitate comparisons between periods in which such item did not occur.
 
The Company uses the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures in connection with its own budgeting and financial planning.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(BW)(CA-AMGEN)(AMGN) Amgen's Third Quarter 2005 Adjusted Earnings Per Share Increased 33 Percent to 85 Cents; Third Quarter 2005 GAAP Earnings Per Share Increased to 77 Cents from 18 Cents
 
Business Editors
 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif.(BUSINESS WIRE)Oct. 19, 2005
 
Third Quarter Product Sales Growth of 19 Percent Driven by Sales of Aranesp, Neulasta and Enbrel
 
Amgen (NASDAQ:AMGN) reported adjusted earnings per share (EPS) of 85 cents for the third quarter of 2005, an increase of 33 percent compared to 64 cents during the third quarter of 2004. Adjusted net income rose 27 percent to $1.1 billion compared to $839 million in the third quarter of 2004.
 
During the third quarter, total product sales increased 19 percent to $3.0 billion from $2.6 billion in the third quarter of 2004. Sales in the United States (U.S.) totaled $2.5 billion, an increase of 17 percent versus the same quarter in 2004. International sales totaled $543 million versus $419 million during the comparable period in 2004, an increase of 30 percent. International sales benefited from foreign exchange by approximately $9 million. Total revenue increased 16 percent during the third quarter of 2005 to $3.2 billion. The Company reiterated its 2005 guidance of a range of mid-to-high teens revenue growth and a range of $3.10 to $3.20 for adjusted EPS.
 
Adjusted EPS and adjusted net income for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004 primarily exclude certain expenses related to the acquisitions of Immunex Corporation and Tularik Inc. These expenses and other items are itemized on the reconciliation tables below.
 
On a reported basis and calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Amgen's EPS increased to 77 cents in the third quarter of 2005 from 18 cents in the same quarter last year. Net income was $967 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $236 million for the third quarter of 2004. Third quarter 2004 GAAP results were impacted by the acquisition of Tularik, which included a $554 million charge related to acquired in-process R&D.
 
"Our strong performance during the third quarter is consistent with the guidance that we provided for the full year," said Kevin Sharer, Amgen's chairman and chief executive officer. "Our key marketed products continue to record strong sales gains, and we expect to make additional announcements in the near-term on data relating to key products within our pipeline," concluded Sharer.
 
Product Sales Performance
 
Worldwide sales of Aranesp (darbepoetin alfa), increased 38 percent to $840 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $608 million during the third quarter of 2004. This growth was driven principally by increased demand for Aranesp. U.S. Aranesp sales were $542 million versus $374 million in the prior year, with share gains in all major settings driving growth. International Aranesp sales were $298 million versus $234 million in the same quarter last year.
 
Sales of EPOGEN (Epoetin alfa) during the third quarter were $599 million versus $681 million in the comparable period of 2004. EPOGEN sales decreased by 12 percent in the third quarter of 2005 principally reflecting decreases in wholesaler inventory levels and lower demand. Although demand for EPOGEN in the freestanding dialysis clinics remains consistent with patient growth, demand in the hospital dialysis clinics has been impacted by increased usage of Aranesp.
 
Combined worldwide sales of Neulasta (pegfilgrastim) and NEUPOGEN (Filgrastim), were $882 million in the third quarter of
 
2005 versus $752 million for the third quarter of 2004, an increase of 17 percent. Combined sales growth for Neulasta and NEUPOGEN, which benefited from recently updated guidelines recommending earlier use of such products, was primarily driven by increased demand for Neulasta. Also during the quarter, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved an update for the Neulasta prescribing information for administration of Neulasta beginning in the first cycle of chemotherapy for patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with at least a 17 percent risk of febrile neutropenia.
 
Combined sales of Neulasta and NEUPOGEN in the United States were $680 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $591 million in the third quarter of 2004, an increase of 15 percent. Combined international sales increased 25 percent to $202 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $161 million over the same quarter in the prior year.
 
Sales of Enbrel (etanercept) increased 35 percent during the third quarter to $668 million versus $496 million during the same period in 2004, driven by strong demand. ENBREL continues to maintain a leading market share position in the Dermatology and Rheumatology biologic marketplaces. Amgen recently resumed its direct-to-consumer advertising related to ENBREL.
 
Operating Expense Analysis on an Adjusted Basis:
 
 
 
 
For the remainder of the year, the adjusted tax rate is expected to be slightly lower than the Company's first quarter 2005 adjusted rate of 26.4 percent.
 
Stock repurchases for the third quarter 2005 totaled $769 million representing 9.5 million shares. In December 2004, the Company's board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of $5 billion. At the end of the third quarter, the Company had $2.8 billion remaining under this stock authorization.
 
Capital expenditures for the third quarter of 2005 were $199 million, primarily due to construction at the Company's Puerto Rico manufacturing facility, versus $298 million in 2004. The Company's cash and marketable securities were $5.6 billion at the end of the quarter.
 
Third Quarter Product and Pipeline Highlights
 
Aranesp: Amgen expects to file new data with the FDA on extended dosing regimens for Aranesp in chronic kidney disease by the end of 2005. Amgen also announced top line data from its Phase 2 trials in Chronic Heart Failure (CHF) patients with anemia. The data demonstrated that Aranesp was well-tolerated in anemic heart failure patients. No significant safety events were observed. Overall, the
 
Phase 2 program showed that treating anemia in heart failure patients resulted in positive trends in mortality, first cardiac-related hospitalization, exercise tolerance, and quality of life. Amgen communicated plans to initiate Phase 3 trials in this patient population. The Phase 3 program will be approximately three years long and include 3400 CHF patients.
 
Enbrel: Amgen announced FDA approval of a new manufacturing plant in Rhode Island for the production of Enbrel.
 
Neulasta: During the quarter, the FDA approved an update to the Neulasta prescribing information to include data from a Phase 3 study demonstrating the white blood cell booster helps protect patients with most types of cancer undergoing moderately myelosuppressive chemotherapy from infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia.
 
Kepivance (palifermin): In the European Union, Kepivance received a positive opinion for marketing authorization by the European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). The authorization, awaiting final approval, is for Kepivance to decrease the incidence, duration and severity of oral mucositis in patients with hematologic cancers undergoing myeloablative therapy associated with a high incidence of severe oral mucositis, and requiring autologous bone marrow transplant.
 
Panitumumab: Interim results from two ongoing trials support the ability of panitumumab to provoke tumor shrinkage when administered as a single agent every other week in patients with colorectal cancer who had failed prior intensive chemotherapy. These data will form part of a Biologics Licensing Application which Amgen, together with its partner Abgenix, intends to file beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005. The FDA has granted fast track status to panitumumab for this indication.
 
Denosumab (formerly known as AMG 162): During the third quarter, two-year data from an ongoing Phase 2 study in women with post-menopausal osteoporosis were unblinded. These data, which support both the favorable safety profile of denosumab administered once every six months, as well as the ability of denosumab to improve bone mineral density in this population, will be presented at the American College of Rheumatology meeting in November. Also this month, Phase 2 data supporting the ability of denosumab to suppress pathologic bone turnover in patients with metastatic breast cancer were obtained. These data provide impetus for planned Phase 3 studies designed to support the use of monthly denosumab in preventing adverse skeletal events in patients with cancer and bony involvement. Phase 2 data in rheumatoid arthritis will be available by year-end 2005.
 
AMG 531: Amgen announced that Phase 2 studies in chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia are expected to be initiated by the end of the year. The data from ongoing Phase 3 trials in Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP) will be available in the second half of 2006.
 
AMG 706: Amgen expects final data to be available in the first half of 2006 from its Phase 2 study of AMG 706 in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors who have failed imatinib therapy.
 
AMG 108: During the quarter, Amgen announced that AMG 108 did not meet the primary endpoint in a Phase 2 study in osteoarthritis. Development of AMG 108 is planned to continue in other inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.
 
For more product information or the full prescribing information, please refer to the Amgen Web site at www.amgen.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and others that can be found in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K.
 
Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this news release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those we project. The Company's results may be affected by our ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally, sales growth of recently launched products, difficulties or delays in manufacturing our products, and regulatory developments (domestic or foreign) involving current and future products and manufacturing facilities. In addition, sales of our products are affected by reimbursement policies imposed by first party payors, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers, and may be affected by domestic and international trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment as well as possible U.S. legislation affecting pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement. Government regulations and reimbursement policies may affect the development, usage and pricing of our products. Furthermore, our research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. We, or others could identify side effects or manufacturing problems with our products after they are on the market. In addition, we compete with other companies with respect to some of our marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new products. Discovery or identification of new product candidates cannot be guaranteed and movement from concept to product is uncertain; consequently, there can be no guarantee that any particular product candidate will be successful and become a commercial product. In addition, while we routinely obtain patents for our products and technology, the protection offered by our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. Further, some raw materials, medical devices, and component parts for our products are supplied by sole first party suppliers.
 
About Amgen
 
Amgen discovers, develops and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe and effective medicines from lab, to manufacturing plant, to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious illnesses. With a broad and deep pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and our vital medicines, visit www.amgen.com.
 
EDITOR'S NOTE: An electronic version of this news release may be accessed via our Web site at www.amgen.com. Journalists and media representatives may sign up to receive all news releases electronically at time of announcement by filling out a short form in the Media section of the Web site.
 
Amgen Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to "Adjusted" Earnings
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
(1) - (11) See explanatory notes
 
Amgen Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to "Adjusted" Earnings
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
(1) - (11) See explanatory notes
 
Amgen Inc.
Notes to Reconciliation of GAAP Earnings to "Adjusted" Earnings
(In millions, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amgen Inc.
Product Sales Detail by Product and Geographic Region
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Amgen Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets - GAAP
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Amgen Inc.
Reconciliation of "Adjusted" Earnings Per Share Guidance to GAAP
Earnings Per Share Guidance for the Year Ended December 31, 2005
 
 
The guidance for both "Adjusted" earnings per share and GAAP earnings per share does not include the impact of expense related to stock option compensation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


