FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20050810135228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 10, 2005, Amgen Inc. (the "Company") publicly announced the appointment of Michael A. Kelly as the Company's Vice President, Corporate Planning & Control and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Kelly will be the Company's principal accounting officer; he is not an executive officer of the Company.
 
The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Kelly to this position on July 12, 2005; effective August 10, 2005. Pursuant to the instruction to paragraph (c) of Item 5.02, the Company delayed filing this report on Form 8-K until after the Company first publicly announced such appointment by press release dated August 10, 2005. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release.
 
Mr. Kelly, age 48, has been the Company's Vice President, Finance for Process Development, Operations and Quality since February 10, 2003. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Kelly was Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer at Tanox, Inc., a biotechnology company. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. Kelly was Corporate Controller at Biogen, Inc., a biotechnology company. From 1981 to 1998, Mr. Kelly progressed through positions of increasing responsibility in finance at Monsanto Life Sciences Company and its subsidiaries ending his tenure as Vice President, Finance with the Nutrition and Consumer sector.
 
Mr. Kelly does not have an employment agreement with the Company. His current base salary is $306,338 and he is eligible to participate in the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") at an incentive target of 40% of base salary. Under the terms of the offer letter pursuant to which Mr. Kelly began his employment at the Company, if, within the first three years of his employment, Mr. Kelly's employment is involuntarily terminated without cause or he resigns due to a reduction of his duties, salary or annual target incentive opportunity under the MIP, then he will be entitled to one year of base salary and target incentive paid monthly and health care coverage.
 
Mr. Kelly is eligible to participate in the Company's long-term compensation plans, savings, retirement, health and welfare plans on the same terms offered to all plan participants.
 
In March 2003, the Company made a personal loan of $360,000 to Mr. Kelly in connection with his relocation closer to the Company. The annual interest rate on the loan is currently 3% and is established and adjusted annually based on the average introductory rates on adjustable loans offered by California banks and savings and loans. Mr. Kelly's aggregate outstanding indebtedness to the Company as of August 10, 2005, is $360,000.
 
On August 10, 2005, Timothy O. Martin resigned from the position of Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Martin is taking on new responsibilities as the Company's Vice President, Finance for Global Commercial Operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (August 10, 2005)  Amgen (NASDAQ:AMGN), a leading human therapeutics company in the biotechnology industry, today announced the appointment of Michael Kelly as vice president, Corporate Planning and Control, and chief accounting officer. Kelly, formerly vice president, Finance for Process Development, Operations and Quality at Amgen, will report to Richard Nanula, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Kelly replaces Timothy Martin as Amgen's chief accounting officer. Martin is taking on new responsibilities as Amgen's vice president, Finance for Global Commercial Operations.
 
Kelly joined Amgen in early 2003 as vice president, Finance. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Kelly was vice president, Finance and chief financial officer at Tanox, Inc., and from 1998 to 2000, he served as corporate controller at Biogen, Inc. From 1981 to 1998, Mr. Kelly progressed through positions of increasing responsibility in finance at Monsanto Life Sciences Company and its subsidiaries ending his tenure as vice president, Finance with the Nutrition and Consumer sector.
 
Kelly earned a B.S. in Business Administration from Florida A&M University.
 
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe and effective medicines from lab, to manufacturing plant, to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious illnesses. With a broad and deep pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and our vital medicines, visit .
www.amgen.com
 


