FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20050311163901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On March 7, 2005, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Amgen Inc. ("Amgen" or the "Company") approved amendments to (and restatement of) the Company's Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan (the "1991 Plan") and the corresponding amendments to (and restatement of) the Amgen Inc. Performance Award Program (the "Performance Program"), as well as amendments to (and restatement of) the Amgen Inc. Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Tularik Inc. 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, the "Acquired 1997 Plan") and the Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly known as the Immunex Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan, the "1999 Plan," and together with the 1991 Plan, and the Acquired 1997 Plan, the "Plans"). The Compensation Committee also approved corresponding amendments to (and restatement of) the forms of grant of stock option agreements and the performance unit agreement. Additionally, the Compensation Committee approved forms of restricted stock unit agreements for grant of such units to the Company's employees under the 1991 Plan and the Acquired 1997 Plan. Further, the Compensation Committee also approved the awards to certain executives under the Performance Program and the Amgen Inc. Executive Incentive Plan (the "EIP") and established performance goals and target awards for 2005 under the EIP for certain executives. A description of these amendments and restatements, these awards and these goals and targets follows below.
 
Amendment and Restatement of the Plans and Corresponding Amendment and Restatement of the Performance Program.
 
The Amendment and Restatement of the Plans, among other things, (a) authorizes the Board or the Compensation Committee to delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board the authority to grant or amend Stock Awards (as defined in each of the respective Plans) available under each respective Plan, (b) clarifies the definition of a Stock Award under the terms of the respective Plans, and (c) revises, with respect to future awards, the provisions pertaining to the extension of the term of stock option grants and the acceleration of the vesting schedule of Stock Awards after termination of employment with the Company in the event of the death or total disability of an employee in the Plans; moving the specific terms regarding death and disability into the corresponding equity award documents as described below. The corresponding amendment to (and restatement of) the Performance Program, a program operating under the 1991 Plan, also amends, with respect to future awards, the provisions pertaining to the manner in which performance units granted under such program may vest upon an employee's termination of employment with the Company in the event of the total disability or Voluntary Retirement (as defined in the Performance Program) of such employee; requiring an employee to first execute a general release provided by the Company before the vesting schedule of an award may be accelerated. The Company has also amended the Performance Program to permit the Company to amend the Performance Program in the event the Company determines that the performance award units would be subject to Section 409A of the Code. In such an event, the Company may amend the Performance Program as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the performance award units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the performance award units. The form of these amendments (and restatement) of the 1991 Plan and the corresponding form of the amendments to (and restatement of) the Performance Program, as well as the form of amendments to (and restatement of) the Acquired 1997 Plan and the 1999 Plan are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.1, 10.4, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively.
 
Amended and Restated or New Forms of Equity Incentive Award Agreements.
 
In connection with the amendments to (and restatement of) of the Plans described above with respect to the provisions pertaining to the extension of the term of stock option grants and the acceleration of the vesting schedule of Stock Awards after termination of employment with the Company in the event of the death or total disability of an employee, as well as other administrative modifications, and in connection with the amendments to (and restatement of) the Performance Program, the Compensation Committee approved amendments to (and restatement of) the forms of stock option grant agreements for each of the Plans and the form of the performance award unit for the Performance Program with respect to future awards. Additionally, the Compensation Committee also approved forms of restricted stock unit agreements for use under the 1991 Plan and the Acquired 1997 Plan as described below.
 
Amended and Restated Forms of Stock Option Grant Agreements
 
The amended and restated forms of stock option grant agreements provide, among other things, that (a) in the event of the total disability of an employee, the period available for an employee to exercise a stock option grant would be extended from three months after termination of such employee's employment due to disability to twelve months and (b) in the event of the death or total disability of an employee the vesting schedule of a stock option grant would be accelerated so that (i) if such individual has been employed by the Company for less than five (5) full years, stock options that were scheduled to vest by December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs would be accelerated, or (ii) if such individual has been employed by the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded thereunder would be accelerated. Additionally, the amended and restated forms of stock option grant agreements provide that, in the event of the Voluntary Retirement (as defined in each of the applicable grant agreements) of an employee, the period available for an employee to exercise a stock option grant would be extended from three months after termination of such employee's employment due to Voluntary Retirement to eighteen months. Additionally, the agreements require an employee to first execute a general release provided by the Company in the event of such employee's total disability or Voluntary Retirement before the vesting schedule of an award may be accelerated.
 
Restricted Stock Unit Agreements
 
The forms of restricted stock unit agreements provide for the granting of restricted stock units that convert on a one-to-one basis into shares of Company Common Stock on an installment basis so long as an individual is actively employed by the Company as set forth in the restricted stock unit agreement. Additionally, the forms of restricted stock unit agreements provide that, in the event of the death or total disability of an individual, the vesting schedule of a restricted stock unit grant would be accelerated so that (i) if such individual has been employed by the Company for less than five (5) full years, restricted stock units that were scheduled to vest by December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs would be accelerated, or (ii) if such individual has been employed by the Company for five (5) or more full years, restricted stock units that were scheduled to vest by December 31 of the second year following the year in which such termination occurs would be accelerated. The forms of restricted stock unit agreements also provides that the vesting schedule of a restricted stock unit grant would be accelerated in full upon the Voluntary Retirement (as defined in the applicable restricted stock unit agreement) of an employee. Additionally, the agreements require an employee to first execute a general release provided by the Company in the event of such employee's total disability or Voluntary Retirement before the vesting schedule of an award may be accelerated.
 
The forms of the amended and restated forms of stock option grant agreements and the restricted stock unit agreements for the 1991 Plan and the Acquired 1997 Plan are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.5 and 10.6, respectively. The forms of the amended and restated forms of stock option grant agreements for the 1999 Plan are filed with this report as Exhibit 10.7.
 
Amended and Restated Form of Performance Unit Agreement
 
The amended and restated form of performance unit agreement, among other things, permits the Company to amend the performance unit agreement as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the performance units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the performance units. The amended and restated form of the performance unit agreement contains provisions designed to improve administration of such agreements, including provisions related to improved efficiencies in the payment of the par value for vested shares of Company Common Stock, as well as tax withholding obligations. The amended and restated form of performance unit agreement for the Performance Program is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.8.
 
Performance Program Awards
 
The Company has established a long term performance based program under the 1991 Plan and is denominated in performance units. On March 7, 2005, in addition to the amendments to the Performance Program and the performance unit agreement under the Performance Program set forth above, the Compensation Committee approved awards to the named executive officers under the Performance Program for the 2005-2007 performance period, which commenced January 1, 2005 and ends December 31, 2007. The Compensation Committee has also previously approved awards to the named executive officers for the 2004-2006 performance period; this period commenced January 1, 2004 and ends December 31, 2006.
 
Under the Performance Program, a performance unit is a right granted to a participant under the Performance Program to receive Company Common Stock, the payment of which is contingent upon the Company achieving specified performance goals pre-established by the Compensation Committee. Performance units are assigned a unit value based on the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the grant date.
 
 
 
The performance goals for the 2004-2006 and the 2005-2007 respective performance periods are based on (i) the Company's independent financial performance and (ii) comparative financial performance, in each case with respect to compound annual growth rates for revenue and earnings per share, as such metrics are defined in the goals for each of the 2004-2006 and 2005-2007 performance periods. The ultimate number of performance units earned is based on the level of the Company's individual and comparative financial performance. The Company's individual financial performance is evaluated against pre-established thresholds and targets for the performance goals. However, if the Company's individual performance is below the minimum specified level for either revenue or earnings per share growth, then no individual performance is achieved with respect to that measure (regardless of comparative performance). For the comparative performance measure, the Company ranks, from highest to lowest, the performance of each company in a pre-established peer group (consisting of leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies) based on such other company's revenue and earnings per share compound annual growth rates for the respective 2004-2006 and 2005-2007 performance periods. The higher the Company ranks with respect to relative revenue and earnings per share growth, the greater the level of achievement. The Company's independent performance results and its comparative performance results, which are determined by the Compensation Committee after the end of the relevant performance period, are combined under a set formula to determine an ultimate level of attainment of goals, which is expressed as a percentage. This percentage, which may range from 0% to 225%, is multiplied by the number of performance units initially granted. The resulting number of performance units is multiplied by the initial value per unit to determine the aggregate dollar value of the award. The aggregate dollar value of the award is divided by the Share Price (as defined below) to determine the number of shares of Common Stock then payable to a participant. The Compensation Committee is required to determine the amount of the performance award payable to each participant within six months following the end of the applicable performance period. The "Share Price" is the average of the daily closing prices of a share of Common Stock on NASDAQ for the 30 trading days ending seven trading days immediately preceding the date that the Compensation Committee determines the amount of the award payable to participants. Accordingly, the number of shares of Common Stock that will be delivered to each named executive officer, if any, for either of the 2004-2006 or the 2005-2007 performance periods cannot be determined at this time. If a participant's employment with the Company
 
is terminated prior to the last business day of a performance period by reason of such participant's voluntary retirement (assuming the participant is retirement eligible under the program), death or disability, the prorated amount of such participant's award, if any, applicable to such performance period will be paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a participant's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason within six months following the commencement of a performance period, all of such participant's rights to an award for such performance period are forfeited. It is the Company's intent that awards under the Performance Program satisfy any applicable requirements as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
EIP Awards and Performance Goals and Target Awards
 
The Company has established a cash bonus plan that is intended to result in awards that qualify as a performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). On March 7, 2005 the Compensation Committee (i) certified the attainment of performance goals and approved awards based on 2004 performance of the Company for each of the named executive officers, which awards will be paid in March 2005 and (ii) established performance goals and target awards for 2005 for each of the named executive officers. These items are as follows.
 
 
 
 
 
The maximum total awards payable to all participants is 2.0% (two percent) of "Adjusted Net Income" for the 2005 performance period. Under the terms of the EIP, "Adjusted Net Income" means net income for such performance period computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. which may be adjusted by the Compensation Committee, as specified in writing, for each performance period, at the time the goal is established for the performance period, for the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The performance goal for the 2005 performance period is the production of Adjusted Net Income by the Company. For 2005, the Compensation Committee has approved a definition of "Adjusted Net Income" under the EIP that is as set forth above, with the exception that item (4) above has been replaced by "(4) retention and severance expense associated with acquisitions."
 
The Compensation Committee reviews the results of the Company and the performance of each participant in order to determine the actual award to be paid, subject to the maximum award limits under the EIP. For 2004 and 2005 the maximum individual awards under the EIP are the same as the target awards. Specific performance areas that the Compensation Committee evaluated in 2004 included earnings per share growth and revenue growth; progress in Research and Development, including the advancement of the pipeline of potential future products; external outreach, in the form of licensing, partnerships, ventures, and business combinations; ensuring ample product supply; effective launch of new products; building scaleable processes that will support the Company's growth objectives; and assembly of a diverse leadership team, and the development of Amgen leaders. Specific performance areas that the Compensation Committee has established as goals for 2005 and which are presently expected to be evaluated by the Compensation Committee for 2005 include earnings per share growth and revenue growth; progress in Research and Development, including the advancement of the pipeline of potential future products; competing effectively in a changing marketplace; development of leaders at all levels; and driving superior cross-company operations; however, at the time the Compensation Committee determines the actual amounts under the EIP for the 2005 performance period, the Compensation Committee may take into consideration other currently-unanticipated developments or activities. The payment of an award to a participant with respect to a performance period is conditioned upon the participant's employment by the Company on the last day of the performance period, although the Compensation Committee has discretion to approve awards to Participants who have retired or whose employment has terminated after the beginning of the period for which an award is made, or to the designee or estate of a participant who died during such period. It is the Company's intent that the EIP and awards made thereunder satisfy any applicable requirements as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On March 7, 2005, the Board, approved two amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"). The first amendment, effective March 7, 2005, revises Section 15 of the Bylaws that governs the timing of submissions of, and the information that must be provided with, nominations and other items of business proposed by stockholders where such nomination or other business item will not be included in the Company's proxy statement. The material provisions of this amendment are described further below. The second amendment, effective at the next annual meeting of stockholders (May 11, 2005) revises Section 16 of the Bylaws to decrease the authorized number of directors from 13 to 12.
 
Under the amended Section 15 of the Bylaws, in order to nominate a candidate for election to the Board or bring any other business before the stockholders at an annual meeting where such nomination or other business item will not be included in the Company's proxy statement, a stockholder must notify the Company in writing and such notice must be delivered to the Company no earlier than 120 days and no later than 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting.
 
The amended Section 15 of the Bylaws provides that a stockholder's nomination must contain the following information about the nominee: (1) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (2) appropriate biographical information including, but not limited to, the nominee's personal and professional experience and affiliations to permit the Board to determine whether such nominee meets the qualification and independence standards adopted by the Board, and (3) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected.
 
The amended Section 15 of the Bylaws also provides that a stockholder's notice of a proposed business item must include: (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, (2) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the bylaws of the Company, the language of the proposed amendment), (3) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (4) any material interest in such business of the stockholder making the proposal.
 
Amended Section 15 of the Bylaws further provides that a stockholder giving notice of a nomination or a proposed business item must include the following information in the notice: (1) the name and address of the stockholder, (2) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by the stockholder, (3) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such nomination or business item, and (4) a representation whether the stockholder intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to stockholders of at least the percentage of the Company's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nomination or proposed business item.
 
The form of the Bylaws as amended effective March 7, 2005 is filed with this report as Exhibit 3.1. The amended Section 16 form of the Bylaws that will become effective May 11, 2005 is filed with this report as Exhibit 3.2.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. . The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Dover, County of Kent.
Registered Office
 
Section 2. . The corporation also shall have and maintain an office or principal place of business at such place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, and also may have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Other Offices
 
 
 
Section 3. . The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the corporation and the inscription, "Corporate Seal-Delaware." Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal
 
 
 
Section 4. . Meetings of the stockholders of the corporation shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.
Place of Meetings
 
Section 5. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation shall be held on any date and time which may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors. At such annual meeting, directors shall be elected and any other business may be transacted that may properly come before the meeting.
Annual Meeting
 
Section 6. . Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by the Chairman of the Board of Directors ("Chairman of the Board"), the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Board of Directors at any time.
Special Meetings
 
Section 7. . Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, written notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, such notice to specify the place, date and hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting. Notice of the time, place and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, signed by the person entitled to notice thereof, either before or after such meeting, and will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat in person or by proxy, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
Notice of Meetings
 
Section 8. . At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, the presence, in person or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any shares, the voting of which at said meeting has been enjoined, or which for any reason cannot be lawfully voted at such meeting, shall not be counted to determine a quorum at such meeting. In the absence of a quorum any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting. The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. At all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present a plurality of the votes cast shall be sufficient to elect directors. All other elections and questions presented to the stockholders at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall, unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange or securities market applicable to the corporation, or applicable
Quorum
 
law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the corporation or its securities, be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of stock of the corporation which are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon.
 
Section 9. . Any meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the shares, the holders of which are present either in person or by proxy, or by the chairman of the meeting or the Board of Directors. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournment and Notice of Adjourned Meetings
 
Section 10. . For the purpose of determining those stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares stand on the stock records of the corporation on the record date, as provided in Section 12 of these Bylaws, shall be entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders. Every person entitled to vote or execute consents shall have the right to do so either in person or by an agent or agents authorized by a written proxy executed by such person or his duly authorized agent, which proxy shall be filed with the Secretary at or before the meeting at which it is to be used. An agent so appointed need not be a stockholder. No proxy shall be voted on after three (3) years from its date of creation unless the proxy provides for a longer period. All elections of Directors shall be by written ballot, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Voting Rights
 
Section 11. . If shares or other securities having voting power stand of record in the names of two (2) or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety, or otherwise, or if two (2) or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares, unless the Secretary is given written notice to the contrary and is furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so provided, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect: (a) if only one (1) votes, his act binds all; (b) if more than one
Joint Owners of Stock
 
(1) votes, the act of the majority so voting binds all; (c) if more than one (1) votes, but the vote is evenly split on any particular matter, each faction may vote the securities in question proportionally, or may apply to the Delaware Court of Chancery for relief as provided in the General Corporation Law of Delaware, Section 217(b). If the instrument filed with the Secretary shows that any such tenancy is held in unequal interests, a majority or even-split for the purpose of this subsection (c) shall be a majority or even-split in interest.
 
Section 12. . The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the corporation. The list of stockholders must also be open to examination at the meeting as required by applicable law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
List of Stockholders
 
Section 13. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.
No Action Without Meeting
 
Section 14.
Organization; Conduct of Meetings.
 
(a) At every meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or, if the Chairman of the Board is absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or, if the Chief Executive Officer is absent, the President, or, if the President is absent, the most senior Vice President present, or in the absence of any such officer, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote, present in person or by proxy, shall act as chairman. The Secretary, or, in his absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the Chief Executive Officer, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
 
(b) The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a
 
meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
 
Section 15. Notifications of Nominations and Proposed Business.
 
(a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
 
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders may be made only (A) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (B) by any stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder of record of the corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 15 is delivered to the Secretary of the corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 15.
 
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 15, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal place of business of the corporation not earlier than the 120
th
day, nor later than the 90
th
day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 70 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be delivered not earlier than the 120
th
day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such annual meeting or the 10
th
day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:
 
(A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), (ii) appropriate biographical information including, but not limited to, the nominee's personal and professional experience and affiliations to permit the Board of Directors to determine whether such nominee meets the qualification and independence standards adopted by the Board of Directors, and (iii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected;
 
(B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), (iii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (iv) any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and
 
 
(C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee, and/or otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
 
(3) The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 15 shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation, including, but not limited to, the information described in subsection (ii) of Section 15(a)(2)(A).
 
(4) Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 15 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 15 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal place of business of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10
th
day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
 
(b) Special Meetings of Stockholders.
 
(1) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (A) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (B) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 15 is delivered to the Secretary of the corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 15.
 
(2) In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 15 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal place of business of the corporation not earlier than the 120
th
day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90
th
day prior to such special meeting or the 10
th
day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(c) General.
 
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 15 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 15.
 
(2) Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (A) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 15, and (B) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 15, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.
 
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 15, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation. For purposes of this Section 15, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
 
(4) For purposes of this Section 15, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 15, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 15. Nothing in this Section 15 shall be deemed to affect any rights (A) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (B) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
 
 
 
Section 16. . The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The number of directors presently authorized is thirteen. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation. If for any cause the directors shall not have been elected at any annual meeting, they
Number
 
may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
 
Section 17. . The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes: Class I, Class II and Class III, which shall be as nearly equal in number as possible. Each director shall serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual meeting of stockholders following the annual meeting at which the director was elected. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his death, resignation or removal.
Classes of Directors
 
Section 18. . In the event of any increase or decrease in the authorized number of directors, the newly created or eliminated directorships resulting from such increase or decrease shall be apportioned by the Board of Directors among the three classes of directors so as to maintain such classes as nearly equal in number as possible. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office (and not by stockholders), even though less than a quorum of the authorized Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until such director's successors shall have been elected and qualified.
Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies
 
Section 19. . The powers of the corporation shall be exercised, its business conducted and its property controlled by the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation.
Powers
 
Section 20. . Any director may resign at any time by delivering his written resignation to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. If no such specification is made, it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. When one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations
Resignation
 
shall become effective, and each Director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the director whose place shall be vacated and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
 
Section 21. . At a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose in the manner hereinabove provided, the Board of Directors, or any individual director, may be removed from office, with cause, and one or more new directors may be elected, by a vote of stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at an election of Directors.
Removal
 
Section 22. .
Meetings
 
(a) . The annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on any date and time and at such place which may from time to time be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. Such meeting shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting such other business as may lawfully come before it.
Annual Meetings
 
(b) . Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof. Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, regular meetings of the Board of Directors also may be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware which has been designated by resolution of the Board of Directors or the written consent of all Directors.
Regular Meetings
 
(c) . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a majority of the Directors.
Special Meetings
 
(d) . Any member of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Telephone Meetings
 
(e) . Written notice of the time and place of all regular and special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given at least one (1) day before the date of the meeting. Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any
Notice of Meetings
 
director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
 
(f) . The transaction of all business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, however called or noticed, or wherever held, shall be as valid as though taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum is present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the Directors not present sign a written waiver of notice, or a consent to holding such meeting, or an approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Waiver of Notice
 
Section 23. .
Quorum and Voting
 
(a) . Unless the Certificate of Incorporation requires a greater number, a quorum of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the exact number of Directors fixed from time to time in accordance with Section 16 of these Bylaws, but not less than one (1); provided, however, at any meeting whether a quorum is present or otherwise, a majority of the directors present may adjourn from time to time until the time fixed for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors, without notice other than by announcement at the meeting.
Quorum
 
(b) . At each meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present all questions and business shall be determined by a vote of a majority of the Directors present, unless a different vote is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Majority Vote
 
Section 24. . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and such writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Action without Meeting
 
Section 25. . Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as Directors, but by resolution of the Board of Directors a fixed fee, with or without expense of attendance, may be allowed for serving on the Board of Directors and/or attendance at each meeting and at each meeting of any committee of the Board of Directors. Nothing herein
Fees and Compensation
 
contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, consultant, employee, or otherwise and receiving compensation therefor.
 
Section 26. .
Committees
 
(a) . The Board of Directors may by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, appoint an Executive Committee to consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and specifically granted by the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise when the Board of Directors is not in session all powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, including, without limitation, the power and authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock, except such committee shall not have the power or authority to amend the Certificate of Incorporation (except that the committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors as provided by law, fix any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation), to adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation, to recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, to recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution or to amend these Bylaws.
Executive Committee
 
(b) . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, from time to time appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law. Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors, and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions creating such committees, but in no event shall such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these Bylaws.
Other Committees
 
(c) . Each member of a committee of the Board of Directors shall serve a term on the committee coexistent with such member's term on the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Section 26, may at any time increase or decrease the number
Term
 
of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee. The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation. The Board of Directors may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee. The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
 
(d) . Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 26 shall be held at such times and places as are determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter. Special meetings of any such committee may be held at the principal office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof, or at any place which has been designated from time to time by resolution of such committee or by written consent of all members thereof, and may be called by any director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place of such special meeting given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of the time and place of special meetings of the Board of Directors. Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends such special meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. A majority of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.
Meetings
 
Section 27. . At every meeting of the directors, the Chairman of the Board, or, if the Chairman of the Board is absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive Officer is absent, the President, or if the President
Organization
 
is absent, the most senior Vice President, or, in the absence of any such officer, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall preside over the meeting. The Secretary, or in his absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the Chief Executive Officer, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
 
 
 
Section 28. .
Officers
 
(a) . The Board of Directors shall elect the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, one or more Vice Presidents, the Chief Financial Officer and the Secretary of the corporation at each annual meeting of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors also may appoint such other officers and agents with such powers and duties as it shall deem necessary. The order of the seniority of the Vice Presidents shall be in the order of their nomination, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may assign such additional titles to one or more of the officers as it shall deem appropriate.
Officers Elected by the Board of Directors
 
(b) . The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power to appoint in writing such additional vice presidents of the corporation as he or she shall deem necessary or appropriate, with such titles as appropriately reflect the authority and responsibility of such officers. Such appointment shall become effective upon the delivery of such writing to the Secretary of the Company. The Chief Executive Officer shall annually appoint officers on the date of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors.
Other Officers
 
(c) . Any one person may hold any number of offices of the corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law. For purposes of these bylaws, unless specified otherwise herein, references to "officers" shall refer to both officers elected by the board of directors and officers appointed by the Chief Executive Officer.
In general
 
Section 29.
Tenure and Duties of Officers.
 
(a) . All officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until such officer's earlier resignation or removal. If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled
General
 
by the Board of Directors. In addition, each officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer shall also hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer and until his or her successor shall have been appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, or until such officer's earlier resignation or removal. If the office of any officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may also be filled by the Chief Executive Officer.
 
(b) . The Chairman of the Board, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, shall perform such duties and functions as are necessary to further the strategic direction of the corporation. Unless the Board of Directors designates another person, the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee.
Duties of Chairman of the Board
 
(c) . The Chief Executive Officer, at the request of the Chairman of the Board or upon his absence or disability, or in the event of a vacancy in the office of Chairman of the Board, shall exercise all the powers of Chairman of the Board as provided in Subsection 29(b). The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, exercise general management and supervision over the property, affairs and business of the corporation and shall authorize officers of the corporation, other than the Chairman of the Board, to exercise such powers as he, in his discretion, may deem to be in the best interests of the corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall in general perform all duties incident to general management and supervision of the corporation and such other duties as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
Duties of Chief Executive Officer
 
(d) . The President and Chief Operating Officer, at the request of the Chief Executive Officer or upon his absence or disability, or in the event of a vacancy in the office of Chief Executive Officer, shall exercise all the powers of Chief Executive Officer as provided in Subsection 29(c). The President and Chief Operating Officer shall, subject to the control of the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, exercise general management and supervision over the operating functions of the corporation, and shall authorize officers of the corporation, other than the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, to exercise such powers with respect to the operating function of the corporation as he, in his discretion, may deem to be in the best interests of the corporation. The President and Chief Operating Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. The offices of President and Chief Operating Officer
Duties of President and Chief Operating Officer
 
may be held by either the same person or different persons. If held by different persons, each such officer shall perform the duties customarily incident to his or her office unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. In the event the offices of President and Chief Operating Officer are held by two different persons, the office of President shall rank superior to the office of Chief Operating Officer.
 
(e) . The Vice Presidents, in the order of their seniority, may assume and perform the duties of the President and Chief Operating Officer in the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer and the President and Chief Operating Officer or whenever the offices of Chief Operating Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer are vacant. The Vice Presidents shall perform other duties commonly incident to their office and also shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President and Chief Operating Officer shall designate from time to time.
Duties of Vice Presidents
 
(f) . The Chief Financial Officer shall keep or cause to be kept the books of account of the corporation in a thorough and proper manner, and shall render statements of the financial affairs of the corporation in such form and as often as required by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Financial Officer, subject to the order of the Board of Directors, shall have the custody of all funds and securities of the corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and also shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall designate from time to time. The Chief Executive Officer may direct any Assistant Chief Financial Officer to assume and perform the duties of the Chief Financial Officer in the absence or disability of the Chief Financial Officer, and each Assistant Chief Financial Officer shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and also shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall designate from time to time.
Duties of Chief Financial Officer
 
(g) . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall record all acts and proceedings thereof in the minute books of the corporation. The Secretary shall give notice in conformity with these Bylaws of all meetings of the stockholders, and of all meetings of the Board of Directors and any committee thereof requiring notice. The Secretary shall perform all other duties given him in these Bylaws and other duties commonly incident to his office and also shall perform such other duties
Duties of Secretary
 
and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. The Chief Executive Officer may direct any Assistant Secretary to assume and perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence or disability of the Secretary, and each Assistant Secretary shall perform other duties commonly incident to his office and also shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall designate from time to time.
 
(h) . In addition to any other powers set forth in these Bylaws, officers elected or appointed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, respectively, shall perform the duties customarily incident to such officer's position and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to such officer by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, as applicable.
Duties of Other Officers
 
Section 30. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Chief Executive Officer or to the President or to the Secretary. Any such resignation shall be effective when received by the person or persons to whom such notice is given, unless a later time is specified therein, in which event the resignation shall become effective at such later time. Unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of any such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
 
Section 31. . Any officer may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the vote or written consent of a majority of the directors in office at the time, or by any committee or superior officers upon whom such power of removal may have been conferred by the Board of Directors. In addition, any officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the Chief Executive Officer.
Removal
 
Section 32. . The compensation of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such compensation by reason of the fact that such officer is also a director of the corporation. In addition, the compensation of officers appointed by the Chief Executive Officer may also be fixed from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer.
Compensation
 
 
 
Section 33. . The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to execute on behalf of the corporation any corporate instrument or document, or to sign on behalf of the corporation the corporate name without limitation, or to enter into contracts on behalf of the corporation, except where otherwise provided by law or these Bylaws, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the corporation.
Execution of Corporate Instruments
 
Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Board of Directors or otherwise required by law, promissory notes, deeds of trust, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness of the corporation, and other corporate instruments or documents requiring the corporate seal, and certificates of shares of stock owned by the corporation, shall be executed, signed or endorsed by the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, or the President or any Vice President, and by the Secretary or Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer. All other instruments and documents requiring the corporate signature, but not requiring the corporate seal, may be executed as aforesaid or in such other manner as may be directed by the Board of Directors.
 
All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositaries on funds to the credit of the corporation or in special accounts of the corporation shall be signed by such person or persons as the Board of Directors shall authorize so to do.
 
Section 34. . All stock and other securities of other corporations owned or held by the corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized to do so by resolution of the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or any Vice President.
Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
 
 
 
Section 35. . The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors of the corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the Chairman of the Board or any vice-chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or any Vice-President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Form and Execution of Certificates
 
Section 36. . The corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the corporation may require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against the corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or uncertificated shares.
Lost Certificates
 
Section 37. . Transfers of record of shares of stock of the corporation shall be made only upon its books by the holders thereof, in person or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a properly endorsed certificate or certificates for a like number of shares.
Transfers
 
Section 38. . In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing
Fixing Record Dates
 
without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed: (a) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (b) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
Section 39. . The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Registered Stockholders
 
Section 40. . The Board of Directors may make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with law or with these Bylaws, as it may deem advisable concerning the issuance, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the corporation. The Board of Directors may appoint a transfer agent or registrar of transfers, or both, and may require all certificates for shares of the corporation to bear the signature of either or both.
Issuance, Transfer and Resignation of Shares
 
 
 
Section 41. . All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the corporation, other than stock certificates, may be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a
Execution of Other Securities
 
facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; provided, however, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be authenticated by the manual signature of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signatures of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons. Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the corporation or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person. In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security, or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon or on any such interest coupon, shall have ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation.
 
 
 
Section 42. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors pursuant to law at any regular or special meeting. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Declaration of Dividends
 
Section 43. . Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors may from time to time, in its absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
Dividend Reserve
 
 
 
Section 44. . Unless otherwise fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors, effective as of January 1, 1992, the fiscal year of the corporation shall end on the 31st day of the month of December in each calendar year.
Fiscal Year
 
 
 
Section 45. .
Indemnification of Directors, Officers, Employees and Other Agents
 
(a) . The corporation shall indemnify its directors and officers to the full extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said Law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment); , , that the corporation shall not be required to indemnify any director or officer in connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person or any proceeding by such person against the corporation or its directors, officers, employees or other agents unless (i) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, (ii) the proceeding was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation or (iii) such indemnification is provided by the corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) such indemnification is required to be made under subsection (d) of this Article XI.
Directors and Officers
provided
further
 
(b) . The corporation shall have the power to indemnify its other employees and other agents as set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Other Employees and Other Agents
 
(c) . The corporation shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law advance to any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, prior to
Expenses
 
the final disposition of any such proceeding, promptly following request therefor, all expenses incurred by any director or officer in connection with such proceeding upon receipt of any undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay said amounts if it should be determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Bylaw, no advance shall be made by the corporation to an officer of the corporation in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigate, if a determination is reasonably and promptly made (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the proceeding, or (2) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion that, the facts known to the decision-making party at the time such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not reasonably believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such person believed or had reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful, except by reason of the fact that such officer is or was a director of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director of another corporation, joint venture, trust or other enterprise in which event this paragraph shall not apply.
 
(d) . Without the necessity of entering into an express contract, all rights to indemnification and advances under this Bylaw shall be deemed to be contractual rights and be effective to the same extent and as if provided for in a contract between the corporation and the director or officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this Bylaw and other relevant provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and other applicable law, if any, are in effect. Any right to indemnification or advances granted by this Bylaw to a director or officer shall be enforceable by or on behalf of the person holding such right in any court of competent jurisdiction if (i) the claim for indemnification or advances is denied, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition of such claim is made within ninety (90) days of request therefor. The claimant in such enforcement action, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting his claim. In connection with any claim for indemnification, the corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed. In
Enforcement
 
connection with any claim by an officer of the corporation (except in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such officer is or was a director of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise) for advances, the corporation shall be entitled to raise a defense as to any such action clear and convincing evidence that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not reasonably believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such person believed or had reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct. In any suit brought by a director or officer to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, the burden of proving that the director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article XI or otherwise shall be on the corporation.
 
(e) . The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office. The corporation is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, as provided by law.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
 
(f) . The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Survival of Rights
 
(g) . To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the corporation, upon approval by the Board of Directors, may purchase insurance on behalf of any person required or permitted to be indemnified pursuant to this Bylaw.
Insurance
 
(h) . Any repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the corporation.
Amendments
 
(i) . If this Bylaw or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director and officer to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Bylaw that shall not have been invalidated, or by any other applicable law.
Savings Clause
 
(j) . For the purposes of this Bylaw, the following definitions shall apply:
Certain Definitions
 
(i) The term "proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
 
(ii) The term "expenses" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, court costs, attorneys' fees, witness fees, fines, amounts paid in settlement or judgment and any other costs and expenses of any nature or kind incurred in connection with any proceeding.
 
(iii) The term the "corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
 
(iv) References to a "director," "officer," "employee," or "agent" of the corporation shall include, without limitation, situations where such person is serving at the request of the corporation as, respectively, a director, officer, employee, trustee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
 
(v) References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to any employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the corporation" as referred to in this Bylaw.
 
 
 
Section 46. .
Notices
 
(a) . Whenever under any provisions of these Bylaws notice is required to be given to any stockholder, it shall be given in writing or by a form of electronic transmission in accordance with applicable law. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the corporation.
Notice to Stockholders
 
(b) . Any notice required to be given to any director may be given by the method stated in subsection (a), or by telegram, telecopier, telephone or other means of electronic transmission, except that such notice other than one which is delivered personally shall be sent to such address as such director shall have filed in writing with the Secretary, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office address of such director.
Notice to Directors
 
(c) . If no address of a stockholder or director be known, notice may be sent to the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.
Address Unknown
 
(d) . An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, or director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall be conclusive evidence of the statements therein contained.
Affidavit of Mailing
 
(e) . All notices given by mail, as above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing and all notices given by telegram, telecopier, telephone or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been given as at the sending time recorded by the telegraph company or electronic device transmitting the notices.
Time Notices Deemed Given
 
(f) . It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving notice be employed in respect of all directors, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others.
Methods of Notice
 
(g) . The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such stockholder or such director to receive such notice.
Failure to Receive Notice
 
(h) . Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice
Notice to Person with Whom Communication Is Unlawful
 
had been duly given. In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
 
 
 
Section 47. . These Bylaws may be repealed, altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66
Amendments
 2
/
3
%) of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote upon the election of directors. The Board of Directors also shall have the authority, if such authority is conferred upon the Board of Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, to repeal, alter or amend these Bylaws or adopt new Bylaws (including, without limitation, the amendment of any Bylaw setting forth the number of directors who shall constitute the whole Board of Directors) subject to the foregoing power of the stockholders to change or repeal such Bylaws and provided that the Board of Directors shall not make or alter any Bylaws fixing the qualifications, classifications, term of office or compensation of directors.
 
 
 
Section 48. . The corporation may to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law make loans of money or property to, or guarantee the obligations of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee who is a director of the corporation or its parent or any subsidiary, or adopt an employee benefit plan or plans authorizing such loans or guaranties, upon the approval of the Board of Directors alone if the Board of Directors determines that such a loan or guaranty or plan may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation.
Certain Corporate Loans and Guaranties
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
Section 16. . The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The number of directors currently authorized is twelve. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation. If for any cause the directors shall not have been elected at any annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
Number

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
1. .
PURPOSE
 
(a) The purpose of the Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan as amended and restated in March 2005 (the "Plan") is to provide a means by which employees or directors of and consultants to Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its Affiliates, as defined in paragraph 1(b), directly, or indirectly through Trusts, may be given an opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the stock of the Company through the granting of (i) incentive stock options, (ii) nonqualified stock options, (iii) stock bonuses, and (iv) rights to purchase restricted stock, all as defined below. For purposes of the incentive stock option rules of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), the Plan is a new plan.
 
(b) The word "Affiliate" as used in the Plan means (a) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (b) any domestic eligible entity that is disregarded, under Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3, as an entity separate from either (i) the Company or (ii) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.
 
(c) The Company, by means of the Plan, seeks to retain the services of persons now employed by or serving as directors or consultants to the Company, to secure and retain the services of persons capable of filling such positions, and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the Company.
 
(d) The Company intends that the rights issued under the Plan shall, in the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") or any committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to paragraph 2(c), be either (i) stock options granted pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, including incentive stock options as that term is used in Section 422 of the Code ("Incentive Stock Options"), or options which do not qualify as Incentive Stock Options ("Nonqualified Stock Options") (together hereinafter referred to as "Options"), or (ii) stock bonuses or rights to purchase restricted stock granted pursuant to Section 7 hereof (all such rights included in (i) and (ii), collectively "Stock Awards").
 
(e) The word "Trust" as used in the Plan shall mean a trust created for the benefit of the employee, director or consultant, his or her spouse, or members of their
immediate family. The word optionee shall mean the person to whom the option is granted or the employee, director or consultant for whose benefit the option is granted to a Trust, as the context shall require.
 
2.
ADMINISTRATION.
 
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board unless and until the Board delegates administration to a committee, as provided in paragraph 2(c).
 
(b) The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
 
(1) To determine from time to time which of the persons eligible under the Plan shall be granted Stock Awards; when and how Stock Awards shall be granted; whether a Stock Award will be an Incentive Stock Option, a Nonqualified Stock Option, a stock bonus, a right to purchase restricted stock, or a combination of the foregoing; the provisions of each Stock Award granted (which need not be identical), including the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase or receive stock pursuant to a Stock Award; and the number of shares with respect to which Stock Awards shall be granted to each such person.
 
(2) To construe and interpret the Plan and Stock Awards granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for its administration. The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan or in any Stock Award, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
 
(3) To amend the Plan as provided in Section 14.
 
(4) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company.
 
(c) The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a committee composed of not fewer than two (2) members of the Board (the "Committee"). One or more of these members may be non-employee directors and outside directors, if required and as defined by the provisions of paragraphs 2(e) and 2(f). If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board (except amendment of Section 6 or the options granted thereunder shall only be by action taken by the Board or a committee of one or more members of the Board to which such authority has been specifically delegated by the Board), subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board. Notwithstanding anything else in this paragraph 2(c) to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board the authority to grant or amend Stock Awards to all employees, directors or consultants or any portion or class thereof.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may authorize by duly adopted resolution one or more Officers (as defined below) (each a "Delegated Officer") to take the actions described in paragraph 2(b)(1) of the Plan with respect to Options only, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan; , , that a Delegated Officer shall not have the power to (1) grant any Options to himself, any non-employee director, consultant, Trust, other Delegated Officer or Officer, (2) determine the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase stock pursuant to the exercise of an Option (i.e., vesting), (3) determine the exercise price of an Option, or (4) grant any Option to a parent corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code. The resolution authorizing a Delegated Officer to act as such shall specify the total number of shares of Common Stock that a Delegated Officer may grant with respect to Options. The exercise price (including any formula by which such price or prices may be determined) and the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase stock pursuant to the exercise of an Option shall, however, be set by the Board or the Committee and not by a Delegated Officer to the extent required by Delaware General Corporation Law Section 157 or any other applicable law. The term "Officer" shall include any natural person who is elected as a corporate officer of the Company by the Board.
provided
however
 
(e) The term "non-employee director" shall mean a member of the Board who (i) is not currently an officer of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company (as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) or an employee of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company; (ii) does not receive compensation from the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company for services rendered in any capacity other than as a member of the Board (including a consultant) in an amount required to be disclosed to the Company's stockholders under Rule 404 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Rule 404"); (iii) does not possess an interest in any other transaction required to be disclosed under Rule 404; or (iv) is not engaged in a business relationship required to be disclosed under Rule 404, as all of these provisions are interpreted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
(f) The term "outside director," as used in this Plan, shall mean an administrator of the Plan, whether a member of the Board or of any Committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to paragraph 2(c), who is considered to be an "outside director" in accordance with the rules, regulations or interpretations of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(g) Any requirement that an administrator of the Plan be a "non-employee director" or "outside director" shall not apply if the Board or the Committee expressly declares that such requirement shall not apply.
 
3.
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 11 relating to adjustments upon changes in stock, the stock that may be issued pursuant to Stock Awards granted under the Plan shall not exceed in the aggregate One Hundred Ninety-Two Million (192,000,000) shares of the Company's $.0001 par value common stock (the "Common Stock"). If any Stock Award granted under the Plan shall for any reason expire or otherwise terminate without having been exercised in full, the Common Stock not purchased under such Stock Award shall again become available for the Plan. Shares repurchased by the Company pursuant to any repurchase rights reserved by the Company pursuant to the Plan shall not be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.
 
(b) The Common Stock subject to the Plan may be unissued shares or reacquired shares, bought on the market or otherwise.
 
(c) An Incentive Stock Option may be granted to an eligible person under the Plan only if the aggregate fair market value (determined at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which incentive stock options (as defined by the Code) are exercisable for the first time by such optionee during any calendar year under all such plans of the Company and its Affiliates does not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). If it is determined that an entire Option or any portion thereof does not qualify for treatment as an Incentive Stock Option by reason of exceeding such maximum, such Option or the applicable portion shall be considered a Nonqualified Stock Option.
 
4.
ELIGIBILITY.
 
(a) Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees (including officers) of the Company or its Affiliates. A director of the Company shall not be eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options unless such director is also an employee of the Company or any Affiliate. Stock Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted to employees (including officers) or directors of or consultants to the Company or any Affiliate or to Trusts of any such employee, director or consultant.
 
(b) A director shall in no event be eligible for the benefits of the Plan (other than from a Director NQSO under Section 6 of the Plan) unless and until such director is expressly declared eligible to participate in the Plan by action of the Board or the Committee, and only if, at any time discretion is exercised by the Board or the Committee in the selection of
 
a director as a person to whom Stock Awards may be granted, or in the determination of the number of shares which may be covered by Stock Awards granted to a director, the Plan complies with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect. The Board shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the restrictions set forth in this paragraph 4(b) shall not apply if the Board or Committee expressly declares that such restrictions shall not apply.
 
(c) No person shall be eligible for the grant of an Incentive Stock Option under the Plan if, at the time of grant, such person owns (or is deemed to own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any of its Affiliates unless the exercise price of such Incentive Stock Option is at least one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the date of grant and the Incentive Stock Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant.
 
(d) Stock Awards shall be limited to a maximum of 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock per person per calendar year.
 
5.
TERMS OF DISCRETIONARY STOCK OPTIONS.
 
An option granted pursuant to this Section 5 (a "Discretionary Stock Option") shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
(a) No Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
 
(b) The exercise price of each Incentive Stock Option and each Nonqualified Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.
 
(c) The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either: (i) in cash at the time the Option is exercised; or (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, either at the time of grant or exercise of the Option (A) by delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock that have been held for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and valued at the fair market value on the date of exercise, (B) according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Option is granted or to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to paragraph 5(d), or (C) in any other form of legal
 
consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued.
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be payable at least annually and shall be charged at not less than the minimum rate of interest necessary to avoid the treatment as interest, under any applicable provisions of the Code, of any amounts other than amounts stated to be interest under the deferred payment arrangement.
 
(d) An Option granted to a natural person shall be exercisable during the lifetime of such person only by such person, provided that such person during such person's lifetime may designate a Trust to be such person's beneficiary with respect to any Incentive Stock Options granted after February 25, 1992 and with respect to any Nonqualified Stock Options, and such beneficiary shall, after the death of the person to whom the Option was granted, have all the rights that such person has while living, including the right to exercise the Option. In the absence of such designation, after the death of the person to whom the Option is granted, the Option shall be exercisable by the person or persons to whom the optionee's rights under such Option pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
(e) The total number of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option may, but need not, be allotted in periodic installments (which may, but need not, be equal). From time to time during each of such installment periods, the Option may become exercisable ("vest") with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to that period, and may be exercised with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to such period and/or any prior period as to which the Option was not fully exercised. During the remainder of the term of the Option (if its term extends beyond the end of the installment periods), the Option may be exercised from time to time with respect to any shares then remaining subject to the Option. The provisions of this paragraph 5(e) are subject to any Option provisions governing the minimum number of shares as to which an Option may be exercised.
 
(f) The Company may require any optionee, or any person to whom an Option is transferred under paragraph 5(d), as a condition of exercising any such Option: (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to such person's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative who has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters, and that such person is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Option; and (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating
 
that such person is acquiring the Common Stock subject to the Option for such person's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Common Stock. These requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall be inoperative if: (x) the issuance of the shares upon the exercise of the Option has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"); or (y) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities law.
 
(g) An Option shall terminate three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate, unless the Option by its term specifies either (i) that it shall terminate sooner than three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate; or (ii) that it may be exercised more than three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate. This paragraph 5(g) shall not be construed to extend the term of any Option or to permit anyone to exercise the Option after expiration of its term, nor shall it be construed to increase the number of shares as to which any Option is exercisable from the amount exercisable on the date of termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director.
 
(h) The Option may, but need not, include a provision whereby the optionee may elect at any time during the term of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or any Affiliate to exercise the Option as to any part or all of the shares subject to the Option prior to the stated vesting dates of the Option. Any shares so purchased from any unvested installment or Option may be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company or to any other restriction the Board or the Committee determines to be appropriate.
 
(i) To the extent provided by the terms of an Option, each optionee may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the exercise of such Option by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise issuable to the optionee as a result of the exercise of the Option a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the Common Stock having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
(j) Without in any way limiting the authority of the Board or Committee to make or not to make grants of Discretionary Stock Options under this Section 5, the Board or Committee shall have the authority (but not an obligation) to include as part of any Option agreement a provision entitling the optionee to a further Option (a "Re-Load Option") in the event the optionee exercises the Option evidenced by the Option agreement, in whole or in part, by surrendering other shares of Common Stock in accordance with this Plan and the terms and conditions of the Option agreement. Any such Re-Load Option (i) shall be for a number of shares equal to the number of shares surrendered as part or all of the exercise price of such Option; (ii) shall have an expiration date which is the same as the expiration date of the Option the exercise of which gave rise to such Re-Load Option; and (iii) shall have an exercise price which is equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Re-Load Option on the date of exercise of the original Option or, in the case of a Re-Load Option which is an Incentive Stock Option and which is granted to a 10% stockholder (as defined in paragraph 4(c)), shall have an exercise price which is equal to one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Re-Load Option on the date of exercise of the original Option.
 
Any such Re-Load Option may be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as the Board or Committee may designate at the time of the grant of the original Option, provided, however, that the designation of any Re-Load Option as an Incentive Stock Option shall be subject to the one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) annual limitation on exercisability of Incentive Stock Options described in paragraph 3(c) of the Plan and in Section 422(d) of the Code. There shall be no Re-Load Option on a Re-Load Option. Any such Re-Load Option shall be subject to the availability of sufficient shares under paragraph 3(a) and shall be subject to such other terms and conditions as the Board or Committee may determine.
 
6.
TERMS OF NON-DISCRETIONARY OPTIONS
 
(a) Prior to December 9, 2003, on January 27 of each year, each person who is at that time an Eligible Director of the Company, (as defined in paragraph 6(k)), shall automatically be granted under the Plan, without further action by the Company, the Board, or the Company's stockholders, a Nonqualified Stock Option (a "Director NQSO") to purchase sixteen thousand (16,000) shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth herein. An Eligible Director may designate that such Director NQSO be granted in the name of a Trust instead of in the name of such Eligible Director. The Director NQSO shall be on the terms and conditions set forth herein and should the date of grant set forth above be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such grant shall be made on the next business day. Notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, this paragraph 6(a) shall be of no force and effect from and after December 9, 2003.
 
(b) Prior to December 9, 2003, each person who becomes an Eligible Director, shall, upon the date such person first becomes an Eligible Director, automatically be granted under the Plan, without further action by the Company, the Board, or the Company's stockholders, a Director NQSO to purchase sixty thousand (60,000) shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth herein. An Eligible Director may designate that such Director NQSO be granted in the name of a Trust instead of in the name of such Eligible Director. The Director NQSO shall be on the terms and conditions set forth herein and should the date of grant set forth above be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such grant shall be made on the next business day. Notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, this paragraph 6(b) shall be of no force and effect from and after December 9, 2003.
 
(c) Each Director NQSO granted pursuant to this Section 6 (or any Director Re-Load Option granted pursuant to paragraph 6(j)) shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Director NQSO's need not be identical, but each Director NQSO shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Director NQSO or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as set forth in paragraphs 6(d) through 6(j), inclusive.
 
(d) The term of each Director NQSO shall be ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
 
(e) The exercise price of each Director NQSO shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to such Director NQSO on the date such Director NQSO is granted.
 
(f) The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to a Director NQSO shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either (i) in cash at the time the Director NQSO is exercised; (ii) by delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock that have been held for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise; or (iii) pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instructions to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued.
 
(g) A Director NQSO shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Eligible Director with respect to whom it was granted only by the person to whom it was granted (whether the Eligible Director or a Trust), provided that such person during the Eligible
 
Director's lifetime may designate a Trust to be a beneficiary with respect to the Director NQSO, and such beneficiary shall, after the death of the Eligible Director to whom the Director NQSO was granted, have all of the rights designated for such beneficiary. In the absence of such designation, after the death of the Eligible Director with respect to whom the Director NQSO was granted, if such Director NQSO was granted to the Eligible Director, the Director NQSO shall be exercisable by the person or persons to whom the optionee's rights under such option pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
(h) A Director NQSO shall not vest with respect to an Eligible Director, or the affiliate of such Eligible Director, as the case may be, (i) unless the Eligible Director, has, at the date of grant, provided three (3) years of prior continuous service as an Eligible Director, or (ii) until the date upon which such Eligible Director has provided one year of continuous service as an Eligible Director following the date of grant of such Director NQSO, whereupon such Director NQSO shall become fully vested and exercisable in accordance with its terms.
 
(i) The Company may require any optionee under this Section 6, or any person to whom a Director NQSO is transferred under paragraph 6(g), as a condition of exercising any such option: (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to such person's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative who has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters, and that such person is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Director NQSO; and (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that such person is acquiring the Common Stock subject to the Director NQSO for such person's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the stock. These requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall be inoperative if (i) the issuance of the shares upon the exercise of the Director NQSO has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or (ii), as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities laws.
 
(j) Subject to the last sentence of this paragraph 6(j), each Director NQSO shall include a provision entitling the optionee to a further Nonqualified Stock Option (a "Director Re-Load Option") in the event the optionee exercises the Director NQSO evidenced by the Director NQSO grant, in whole or in part, by surrendering other shares of Common Stock in accordance with the Plan and the terms of the Director NQSO grant. Any such Director Re-Load Option (i) shall be for a number of shares equal to the number of shares surrendered as part or all of the exercise price of the original Director NQSO; (ii) shall have an expiration date which is the same as the expiration date of the original Director NQSO; and (iii)
 
shall have an exercise price which is equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Director Re-Load Option on the date of exercise of the original Director NQSO. Any such Director Re-Load Option shall be subject to the availability of sufficient shares under paragraph 3(a). There shall be no Director Re-Load Option on a Director Re-Load Option. Notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, this paragraph 6(j) shall be of no force and effect from and after June 23, 1998.
 
(k) For purposes of this Section 6, the term "Eligible Director" shall mean a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, and the term "affiliate" shall mean a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Eligible Director.
 
7. .
TERMS OF STOCK BONUSES AND PURCHASES OF RESTRICTED STOCK
 
Each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate agreements need not be identical, but each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as appropriate:
 
(a) The purchase price under each stock purchase agreement shall be such amount as the Board or Committee shall determine and designate in such agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may determine that eligible participants in the Plan may be awarded stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement or stock purchase agreement in consideration for future services to be rendered or past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(b) No rights under a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be assignable by any participant under the Plan, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except where such assignment is required by law or expressly authorized by the terms of the applicable stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement.
 
(c) The purchase price of stock acquired pursuant to a stock purchase agreement shall be paid either: (i) in cash at the time of purchase; (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Common Stock is sold; or (iii) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as
 
promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price of the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee to which administration of the Plan has been delegated may award Common Stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement or stock purchase agreement in consideration for future services to be rendered or past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(d) Shares of Common Stock sold or awarded under the Plan may, but need not, be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board or the Committee.
 
(e) In the event a person ceases to be an employee of or ceases to serve as a director or consultant to the Company or an Affiliate, the Company may repurchase or otherwise reacquire any or all of the shares of Common Stock held by that person which have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement between the Company and such person.
 
(f) To the extent provided by the terms of stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement, a participant may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the lapsing of a repurchase option in favor of the Company or vesting of a stock bonus or a restricted stock award by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise deliverable to a participant as a result of the lapsing of a repurchase option in favor of the Company or the vesting of a stock bonus or a restricted stock award a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the Common Stock having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
8.
COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY.
 
(a) During the terms of the Stock Awards granted under the Plan, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy such Stock Awards up to the number of shares of Common Stock authorized under the Plan.
 
(b) The Company shall seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to issue and sell shares of Common Stock under the Stock Awards granted under the Plan; provided, however, that this undertaking shall not require the Company to register under the Securities Act either
 
the Plan, any Stock Award granted under the Plan or any Common Stock issued or issuable pursuant to any such Stock Award. If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority that counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of Common Stock under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell Common Stock upon exercise of such Stock Awards unless and until such authority is obtained.
 
9.
USE OF PROCEEDS FROM COMMON STOCK.
 
Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to Stock Awards granted under the Plan shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
10.
MISCELLANEOUS.
 
(a) The Board or Committee shall have the power to accelerate the time during which a Stock Award may be exercised or the time during which a Stock Award or any part thereof will vest, notwithstanding the provisions in the Stock Award stating the time during which it may be exercised or the time during which it will vest. Each Discretionary Stock Option providing for vesting pursuant to paragraph 5(e) may also provide that if the employee's employment or a director's or consultant's affiliation with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is terminated by reason of death or disability, then the vesting schedule of Discretionary Stock Options granted to such employee, director or consultant or to the Trusts of such employee, director or consultant may be accelerated.
 
(b) Neither an optionee nor any person to whom an Option is transferred under the provisions of the Plan shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares subject to such Option unless and until such person has satisfied all requirements for exercise of the Option pursuant to its terms.
 
(c) Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Stock Award granted pursuant thereto shall confer upon any eligible employee, consultant, director, optionee or holder of Stock Awards under the Plan any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate or to continue acting as a consultant or director or shall affect the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment or consulting relationship or directorship of any eligible employee, consultant, director, optionee or holder of Stock Awards under the Plan with or without cause. In the event that a holder of Stock Awards under the Plan is permitted or otherwise entitled to take a leave of absence, the Company shall have the unilateral right to (i) determine whether such leave of absence will be treated as a termination of employment or relationship as consultant or director for purposes hereof, and (ii) suspend or otherwise delay the time or times at which exercisability or vesting would otherwise occur with respect to any outstanding Stock Awards under the Plan.
 
(d) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Board or the Committee shall have the power to condition the grant or vesting of stock bonuses and rights to purchase restricted stock under the Plan upon the attainment of performance goals, determined by the Board or the Committee in their respective sole discretion, with respect to any one or more of the following business criteria with respect to the Company, any Affiliate, any division, any operating unit or any product line: (i) return on capital, assets or equity, (ii) sales or revenue, (iii) net income, (iv) cash flow, (v) earnings per share, (vi) adjusted earnings or adjusted net income as defined below, (vii) working capital, (vii) total shareholder return, (ix) economic value or (x) product development, research, in-licensing, out-licensing, litigation, human resources, information services, manufacturing, manufacturing capacity, production, inventory, site development, plant, building or facility development, government relations, product market share, mergers, acquisitions or sales of assets or subsidiaries. "Adjusted net income" and "adjusted earnings" shall mean net income or earnings, as the case may be, for the relevant performance period computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. which may be adjusted by the Committee, as specified in writing, for such performance period, at the time a performance goal is established for the performance period, for the following: (a) any item of significant gain or loss for the performance period determined to be related to a change in accounting principle as reflected in the Company's audited consolidated financial statements, (b) amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets, (c) expenses associated with acquired in-process research and development and (d) any other items of significant income or expense which are determined to be appropriate adjustments and are specified in writing by the Committee at the time the goal is established for the performance period. With respect to any stock bonuses or rights to purchase restricted stock granted to persons who are or who may be "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board or the Committee shall have the power to grant such awards upon terms and conditions that qualify such awards as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Stock bonuses and rights to purchase restricted stock made in accordance with this paragraph 10(d) shall contain the terms and conditions of Section 7 above.
 
11.
ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN COMMON STOCK.
 
If any change is made in the Common Stock subject to the Plan, or subject to any Stock Award granted under the Plan (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, dividend in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating
 
dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the Plan and outstanding Stock Awards will be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and maximum number of shares subject to the Plan, the maximum number of shares which may be granted to a participant in a calendar year, the class(es) and number of shares and price per share of stock subject to outstanding Stock Awards, and the number of shares of Common Stock to be granted as provided for in paragraphs 6(a) and 6(b). Such adjustment shall be made by the Board or the Committee, the determination of which shall be final, binding and conclusive. (The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as a "transaction not involving the receipt of consideration".)
 
12.
CHANGE OF CONTROL.
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, in the event of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined), then, to the extent permitted by applicable law: (i) the time during which Stock Awards become vested shall automatically be accelerated so that the unvested portions of all Stock Awards shall be vested prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the time during which the Options may be exercised shall automatically be accelerated to prior to the Change in Control. Upon and following the acceleration of the vesting and exercise periods, at the election of the holder of the Stock Award, the Stock Award may be: (x) exercised (with respect to Options) or, if the surviving or acquiring corporation agrees to assume the Stock Awards or substitute similar stock awards, (y) assumed; or (z) replaced with substitute stock awards. Options not exercised, substituted or assumed prior to or upon the Change in Control shall be terminated.
 
(b) For purposes of the Plan, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at any of the following times:
 
(i) upon the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or its affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or its affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
 
(ii) at the time individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or
 
nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
 
(iii) immediately prior to the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
 
(iv) the occurrence of any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole discretion determines constitutes a Change of Control.
 
13.
QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS
 
(a) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, rights under Stock Awards may be assigned to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides. (The terms "Alternate Payee" and "QDRO" are defined in paragraph 13(c) below.) The assignment of a Stock Award to an Alternate Payee pursuant to a QDRO shall not be treated as having caused a new grant. The transfer of an Incentive Stock Option to an Alternate Payee may, however, cause it to fail to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. If a Stock Award is assigned to an Alternate Payee, the Alternate Payee generally has the same rights as the grantee under the terms of the Plan; provided however, that (i) the Stock Award shall be subject to the same vesting terms and exercise period as if the Stock Award were still held by the grantee, (ii) an Alternate Payee may not transfer a Stock Award and (iii) an Alternate Payee is ineligible for Re-Load Options described at paragraph 5(j) or Director Re-Load Options described at paragraph 6(j).
 
(b) In the event of the Plan administrator's receipt of a domestic relations order or other notice of adverse claim by an Alternate Payee of a grantee of a Stock Award, transfer of the proceeds of the exercise of such Stock Award, whether in the form of cash, stock or other property, may be suspended. Such proceeds shall thereafter be transferred pursuant to the terms of a QDRO or other agreement between the grantee and Alternate Payee. A grantee's ability to
 
exercise a Stock Award may be barred if the Plan administrator receives a court order directing the Plan administrator not to permit exercise.
 
(c) The word "QDRO" as used in the Plan shall mean a court order (i) that creates or recognizes the right of the spouse, former spouse or child (an "Alternate Payee") of an individual who is granted a Stock Award to an interest in such Stock Award relating to marital property rights or support obligations and (ii) that the administrator of the Plan determines would be a "qualified domestic relations order," as that term is defined in section 414(p) of the Code and section 206(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), but for the fact that the Plan is not a plan described in section 3(3) of ERISA.
 
14.
AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN.
 
(a) The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the Plan. However, except as provided in Section 10 relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the adoption of the amendment, where the amendment will:
 
(i) increase the number of shares reserved for Stock Awards under the Plan;
 
(ii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan (to the extent such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 422(b) of the Code); or
 
(iii) modify the Plan in any other way if such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 422(b) of the Code.
 
(b) The Board may in its sole discretion submit any other amendment to the Plan for stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, amendments to the Plan intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder regarding the exclusion of performance-based compensation from the limit on corporate deductibility of compensation to certain executive officers.
 
(c) It is expressly contemplated that the Board may amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable to provide optionees with the maximum benefits provided or to be provided under the provisions of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder relating to employee Incentive Stock Options and/or to bring the Plan and/or Options granted under it into compliance therewith.
 
(d) Rights and obligations under any Stock Award granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be impaired by any amendment of the Plan, unless: (i) the Company requests the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted; and (ii) such person consents in writing.
 
15.
TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE PLAN.
 
(a) The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. No Stock Awards may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated. No Incentive Stock Options may be granted under the Plan after February 22, 2009.
 
(b) Rights and obligations under any Stock Awards granted while the Plan is in effect shall not be impaired by suspension or termination of the Plan, except with the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted.
 
16.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN.
 
The Plan shall become effective as determined by the Board.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
Amgen Inc. has adopted this Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of March 7, 2005. The Plan amends and restates in its entirety the Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, as previously amended and restated on August 13, 2004 (the "Restatement Date"), which amended and restated in its entirety the Tularik Inc. 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Original Plan").
 
 
 
The following provisions of this Article I shall govern awards granted under the Plan prior to the effective time (the "Effective Time") of the merger of Tularik Inc., with and into Arrow Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly-owned subsidiary of Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 28, 2004 on the Restatement Date:
 
1. .
PURPOSES
 
(a) The purpose of Article I of the Plan is to provide a means by which selected Employees and Directors of and Consultants to the Company, and its Affiliates, may be given an opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the stock of the Company through the granting of (i) Incentive Stock Options, (ii) Nonstatutory Stock Options, (iii) stock bonuses and (iv) rights to purchase restricted stock, all as defined below.
 
(b) The Company, by means of the Plan, seeks to retain the services of persons who are now Employees or Directors of or Consultants to the Company or its Affiliates, to secure and retain the services of new Employees, Directors and Consultants and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the Company and its Affiliates.
 
(c) The Company intends that the Stock Awards issued under the Plan shall, in the discretion of the Board or any Committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to Article I, subsection 3(c), be either (i) Options granted pursuant to Article I, Section 6, including Incentive Stock Options and Nonstatutory Stock Options or (ii) stock bonuses or rights to purchase restricted stock granted pursuant to Article I, Section 7. All Options shall be separately designated Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options at the time of grant, and in such form as issued pursuant to Article I, Section 6, and a separate certificate or certificates will be issued for shares purchased on exercise of each type of Option.
2. .
DEFINITIONS
 
(a) "Affiliate" means (i) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code, or (ii) any domestic eligible entity that is disregarded under Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3, as an entity separate from either (I) the Company or (II) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.
 
(b) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(c) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
(d) "Committee" means a Committee appointed by the Board in accordance with Article I, subsection 3(c).
 
(e) "Company" means Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation.
 
(f) "Consultant" means any person, including an advisor, engaged by the Company or an Affiliate to render consulting services and who is compensated for such services, provided that the term "Consultant" shall not include Directors who are paid only a director's fee by the Company or who are not compensated by the Company for their services as Directors.
 
(g) "Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant" means that the service of an individual to the Company, whether as an Employee, Director or Consultant, is not interrupted or terminated. The Board or the chief executive officer of the Company may determine, in that party's sole discretion, whether Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant shall be considered interrupted in the case of: (i) any leave of absence approved by the Board or the chief executive officer of the Company, including sick leave, military leave, or any other personal leave; or (ii) transfers between the Company, Affiliates or their successors.
 
(h) "Covered Employee" means the chief executive officer and the four (4) other highest compensated officers of the Company for whom total compensation is required to be reported to stockholders under the Exchange Act, as determined for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(i) "Director" means a member of the Board.
 
(j) "Employee" means any person, including Officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company. Neither service as a Director nor payment of a director's fee by the Company shall be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.
 
(k) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(l) "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of the common stock of the Company determined as follows (and in each case prior to the Listing Date, in a manner consistent with Section 260.140.50 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations).
 
(1) If the common stock is listed on any established stock exchange or traded on the Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the Fair Market Value of a share of common stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or market (or the exchange or market with the greatest volume of trading in the Company's common stock) on the day of determination (the most recent day prior to the day of determination, if the day of determination is not a day on which reported sales and bids occurred), as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Board deems reliable.
 
(2) In the absence of such markets for the common stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Board or any Committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to Article I, subsection 3(c).
 
(m) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(n) "Listing Date" means the first date upon which any security of the Company is listed (or approved for listing) upon notice of issuance on any securities exchange, or designated (or approved for designation) upon notice of issuance as a national market security on an interdealer quotation system if such securities exchange or interdealer quotation system has been certified in accordance with the provisions of Section 25100(o) of the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968.
 
(o) "Non-Employee Director" means a Director who either (i) is not a current Employee or Officer of the Company or its parent or subsidiary, does not receive compensation (directly or indirectly) from the Company or its parent or subsidiary for services rendered as a consultant or in any capacity other than as a Director (except for an amount as to which disclosure would not be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act ("Regulation S-K")), does not possess an interest in any other transaction as to which disclosure would be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, and is not engaged in a business relationship as to which disclosure would be required under Item 404(b) of Regulation S-K; or (ii) is otherwise considered a "non-employee director" for purposes of Rule 16b-3.
 
(p) "Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
 
(q) "Officer" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(r) "Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
 
(s) "Option Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company and an Optionee evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Option grant. Each Option Agreement shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
(t) "Optionee" means a person to whom an Option is granted pursuant to the Plan or, if applicable, such other person who holds an outstanding Option.
 
(u) "Outside Director" means a Director who either (i) is not a current employee of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" (within the meaning of the Treasury regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code), is not a former employee of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" receiving compensation for prior services (other than benefits under a tax qualified pension plan), was not an officer of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" at any time, and is not currently receiving direct or indirect remuneration from the Company or an "affiliated corporation" for services in any capacity other than as a Director or (ii) is otherwise considered an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(v) "Plan" means this Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan.
 
(w) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect with respect to the Company at the time discretion is being exercised regarding the Plan.
 
(x) "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
(y) "Stock Award" means any right granted under the Plan, including any Option, any stock bonus and any right to purchase restricted stock.
 
(z) "Stock Award Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company and a holder of a Stock Award evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Stock Award grant. Each Stock Award Agreement shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
3. .
ADMINISTRATION
 
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board unless and until the Board delegates administration to a Committee, as provided in Article I, subsection 3(c).
 
(b) The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
 
(1) To construe and interpret the Plan and Stock Awards granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for its administration. The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan or in any Stock Award Agreement, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
 
(2) To amend a Stock Award as provided in Article I, Section 14.
 
(3) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company which are not in conflict with the provisions of the Plan.
 
(c) The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a committee composed of not fewer than two (2) members of the Board (the "Committee"). One or more of these members may be Non-employee Directors and Outside Directors. If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board, subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of Article I of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board. Notwithstanding anything else in this Article I, subsection 3(c) to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board the authority to amend Options to all Employees, Directors or Consultants or any portion or class thereof.
 
4. .
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of Article I, Section 12 relating to adjustments upon changes in stock, shares of common stock of the Company shall be available for issuance under the Plan.
 
(b) If any Stock Award shall for any reason expire or otherwise terminate, in whole or in part, without having been exercised in full, the stock not acquired under such Stock Award shall revert to and again become available for issuance under Article II of the Plan.
 
(c) For purposes of Article I, Section 4(a), except as to forfeited shares, the payment of cash dividends and dividend equivalents in conjunction with outstanding awards shall not be counted against the shares available for issuance.
 
5. .
ELIGIBILITY
 
(a) Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees. Stock Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees, Directors or Consultants.
 
(b) Prior to the Listing Date no person shall be eligible for the grant of an Option or an award to purchase restricted stock if, at the time of grant, such person owns (or is deemed to own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any of its Affiliates unless the exercise price of such Option is at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of such stock at the date of grant and the Option is not exercisable after
 
the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant or, in the case of a restricted stock purchase award, the purchase price is at least one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of such stock at the date of grant. After the Listing Date this provision shall apply only to Incentive Stock Options.
 
(c) Subject to the provisions of Article I, Section 12 relating to adjustments upon changes in stock, no person shall be eligible to be granted Options covering more than one million (1,000,000) shares of the Company's common stock in any calendar year. This Article I, subsection 5(c) shall not apply prior to the Listing Date and, following the Listing Date, shall not apply until (i) the earliest of: (A) the first material modification of the Plan (including any increase to the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan in accordance with Article I, Section 4); (B) the issuance of all of the shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the Plan; (C) the expiration of the Plan; or (D) the first meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected that occurs after the close of the third calendar year following the calendar year in which occurred the first registration of an equity security under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or (ii) such other date required by Section 162(m) of the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
6. .
OPTION PROVISIONS
 
Each Option shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
(a) . No Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
Term
 
(b) . The exercise price of each Incentive Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the stock subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted; the exercise price of each Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be not less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of the stock subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option (whether an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option) may be granted with an exercise price lower than that set forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner satisfying the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Price
 
(c) . The purchase price of stock acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either (i) in cash at the time the Option is exercised or (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, at the time of the grant of the Option, (A) by delivery to the Company of shares of common stock of the Company that have been held for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's
Consideration
 
reported earnings and valued at the fair market value on the date of exercise, (B) according to a deferred payment or other arrangement (however, in the event the Company reincorporates in Delaware, then payment of the common stock's "par value" (as defined in the Delaware General Corporation Law) shall not be made by deferred payment) with the person to whom the Option is granted or to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Article I, subsection 6(d), or (C) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before stock is issued.
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be payable at least annually and shall be charged at no less than the minimum rate of interest necessary to avoid the treatment as interest, under any applicable provisions of the Code, of any amounts other than amounts stated to be interest under the deferred payment arrangement.
 
(d) . Prior to the Listing Date, an Option shall not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the person to whom the Option is granted only by such person. A Nonstatutory Stock Option, but not an Incentive Stock Option, that is granted after the Listing Date may be transferable to the extent provided in the Option Agreement. The person to whom the Option is granted may, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form satisfactory to the Company, designate a third party who, in the event of the death of the Optionee, shall thereafter be entitled to exercise the Option.
Transferability
 
(e) . The total number of shares of stock subject to an Option may, but need not, be allotted in periodic installments (which may, but need not, be equal). The Option Agreement may provide that, from time to time during each of such installment periods, the Option may become exercisable ("vest") with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to that period and may be exercised with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to such period and/or any prior period as to which the Option became vested but was not fully exercised. The Option may be subject to such other terms and conditions on the time or times when it may be exercised (which may be based on performance or other criteria) as the Board may deem appropriate. Prior to the Listing Date, the vesting provisions of individual Options may vary but in each case will provide for vesting of at least twenty percent (20%) per year of the total number of shares subject to the Option; , , that an Option granted to an officer, director or consultant (within the meaning of Section 260.140.41 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations) may become fully exercisable, subject to reasonable conditions such as continued employment, at any time or during any period established by the Company or of any of its Affiliates. The provisions of this Article I, subsection 6(e) are subject to any Option provisions governing the minimum number of shares as to which an Option may be exercised.
Vesting
provided
however
 
(f) . In the event an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant terminates (other than upon the Optionee's death or disability), the Optionee may exercise the Option (to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise it as of the date of termination) but only within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date three (3) months following the termination of the Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant (or such longer or shorter period, which shall not be less than thirty (30) days unless such termination is for cause, specified in the Option Agreement) or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement. If, at the date of termination, the Optionee is not entitled to exercise the entire Option, the shares covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan. If, after termination, the Optionee does not exercise the Option within the time specified in the Option Agreement, the Option shall terminate and the shares covered by such Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan.
Termination of Employment or Relationship as a Director or Consultant
 
An Optionee's Option Agreement may also provide that if the exercise of the Option following the termination of the Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director, or Consultant (other than upon the Optionee's death or disability) would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, then the Option shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the expiration of the term of the Option set forth in the Option Agreement or (ii) the tenth (10th) day after the last date on which such exercise would result in such liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Finally, an Optionee's Option Agreement may also provide that if the exercise of the Option following the termination of the Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant (other than upon the Optionee's death or disability) would be prohibited at any time solely because the issuance of shares would violate the registration requirements under the Securities Act, then the Option shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the expiration of the term of the Option set forth in the first paragraph of this Article I, subsection 6(f) or (ii) the expiration of a period of three (3) months after the termination of the Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant during which the exercise of the Option would not be in violation of such registration requirements.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in the Plan or any Stock Award Agreement to the contrary but subject to Sections 13(d) and (e), the Board, in its sole discretion, may provide, by Board action or otherwise, an Optionee with the right to continue to vest in an Option for a certain period of time following the date the Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant terminates ("Continued Vesting Period"), as determined by the Board, and to exercise such Option during such Continued Vesting Period and for a certain
 
period of time following such Continued Vesting Period, as determined by the Board; that no Option may be exercised after the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.
provided, however,
 
(g) . In the event an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant terminates as a result of the Optionee's disability, the Optionee may exercise the Option (to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise it as of the date of termination), but only within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date twelve (12) months following such termination (or such longer or shorter period, which prior to the Listing Date shall not be less than six (6) months, specified in the Option Agreement) or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement. If, at the date of termination, the Optionee is not entitled to exercise the entire Option, the shares covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan. If, after termination, the Optionee does not exercise the Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the shares covered by such Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan.
Disability of Optionee
 
(h) . In the event of the death of an Optionee during, or within a period specified in the Option Agreement after the termination of, the Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant, the Option may be exercised (to the extent the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option as of the date of death) by the Optionee's estate, by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance or by a person designated to exercise the option upon the Optionee's death pursuant to Article I, subsection 6(d), but only within the period ending on the earlier of (i) the date eighteen (18) months following the date of death (or such longer or shorter period, which prior to the Listing Date shall not be less than six (6) months, specified in the Option Agreement) or (ii) the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement. If, at the time of death, the Optionee was not entitled to exercise the entire Option, the shares covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan. If, after death, the Option is not exercised within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the shares covered by such Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan.
Death of Optionee
 
(i) . The Option may, but need not, include a provision whereby the Optionee may elect at any time while an Employee, Director or Consultant to exercise the Option as to any part or all of the shares subject to the Option prior to the full vesting of the Option. Any unvested shares so purchased may be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company or to any other restriction the Board determines to be appropriate. Prior to the Listing Date, however, any unvested shares so purchased shall be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company, with the repurchase price to be equal to the original purchase
Early Exercise
 
price of the stock, or to any other restriction the Board determines to be appropriate; , , that (i) the right to repurchase at the original purchase price shall lapse at a minimum rate of twenty percent (20%) per year over five (5) years from the date the Option was granted, (ii) such right shall be exercisable only within (A) the ninety (90) day period following the termination of employment or the relationship as a Director or Consultant, or (B) such longer period as may be agreed to by the Company and the Optionee (for example, for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Section 1202(c)(3) of the Code (regarding "qualified small business stock")) and (iii) such right shall be exercisable only for cash or cancellation of purchase money indebtedness for the shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares received on exercise of an Option by an officer, director or consultant (within the meaning of Section 260.140.41 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations) may be subject to additional or greater restrictions.
provided
however
 
(j) . The Option may, but need not, include a provision whereby the Company may elect, prior to the Listing Date, to exercise a right of first refusal following receipt of notice from the Optionee of the intent to transfer all or any part of the shares exercised pursuant to the Option. Such right of first refusal shall be exercised by the Company no more than thirty (30) days following receipt of notice of the Optionee's intent to transfer shares and must be exercised as to all the shares the Optionee intends to transfer unless the Optionee consents to exercise for less than all the shares offered. The purchase of the shares following exercise shall be completed within thirty (30) days of the Company's receipt of notice of the Optionee's intent to transfer shares, or such longer period of time as has been offered by the person to whom the Optionee intends to transfer the shares, or as may be agreed to by the Company and the Optionee (for example, for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Section 1202(c)(3) of the Code (regarding "qualified small business stock")).
Right of First Refusal
 
(k) . Without in any way limiting the authority of the Board or Committee to make or not to make grants of Options hereunder, the Board or Committee shall have the authority (but not an obligation) to include as part of any Option Agreement a provision entitling the Optionee to a further Option (a "Re-Load Option") in the event the Optionee exercises the Option evidenced by the Option Agreement, in whole or in part, by surrendering other shares of common stock in accordance with the Plan and the terms and conditions of the Option Agreement. Any such Re-Load Option: (i) shall be for a number of shares equal to the number of shares surrendered as part or all of the exercise price of such Option; (ii) shall have an expiration date which is the same as the expiration date of the Option the exercise of which gave rise to such Re-Load Option; and (iii) shall have an exercise price which is equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the common stock subject to the Re-Load Option on the date of exercise of the original Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Re-Load Option which is granted to a 10% stockholder (as described in Article I, subsection 5(b)), shall have an
Re-Load Options
 
exercise price which is equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of the stock subject to the Re-Load Option on the date of exercise of the original Option and shall have a term which is no longer than five (5) years.
 
Any such Re-Load Option may be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option, as the Board or Committee may designate at the time of the grant of the original Option; , , that the designation of any Re-Load Option as an Incentive Stock Option shall be subject to the one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000) annual limitation on exercisability of Incentive Stock Options described in Article I, subsection 11(e) and in Section 422(d) of the Code. There shall be no Re-Load Options on a Re-Load Option. Any such Re-Load Option shall be subject to the availability of sufficient shares under Article I, subsection 4(a) and the limits on the grants of Options under Article I, subsection 5(c) and shall be subject to such other terms and conditions as the Board or Committee may determine which are not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan regarding the terms of Options.
provided
however
 
7. .
TERMS OF STOCK BONUSES AND PURCHASES OF RESTRICTED STOCK
 
Each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate agreements need not be identical, but each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as appropriate:
 
(a) . The purchase price under each restricted stock purchase agreement shall be such amount as the Board or Committee shall determine and designate in such Stock Award Agreement, but prior to the Listing Date the purchase price shall not be less than eighty-five percent (85%), and after the Listing Date the purchase price shall not be less than fifty percent (50%), of the stock's Fair Market Value on the date such award is made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may determine that eligible participants in the Plan may be awarded stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
Purchase Price
 
(b) . Rights under a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be transferable only by will or the laws of descent and distribution, so long as stock awarded under such Stock Award Agreement remains subject to the terms of the agreement.
Transferability
 
(c) . The purchase price of stock acquired pursuant to a stock purchase agreement shall be paid either: (i) in cash at the time of purchase; (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, according to a deferred payment or other arrangement (however,
Consideration
 
in the event the Company reincorporates in Delaware, then payment of the common stock's "par value" (as defined in the Delaware General Corporation Law) shall not be made by deferred payment) with the person to whom the stock is sold; or (iii) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price of the Company from the sales proceeds before stock is issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee to which administration of the Plan has been delegated may award stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(d) . Shares of stock sold or awarded under the Plan may, but need not, be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board or the Committee. Prior to the Listing Date, the applicable agreement shall provide (i) that the right to repurchase at the original purchase price shall lapse at a minimum rate of twenty percent (20%) per year over five (5) years from the date the Stock Award was granted (except that a Stock Award granted to an officer, director or consultant (within the meaning of Section 260.140.41 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations) may become fully vested, subject to reasonable conditions such as continued employment, at any time or during any period established by the Company or of any of its Affiliates), (ii) such right shall be exercisable only (A) within the ninety (90) day period following the termination of employment or the relationship as a Director or Consultant, or (B) such longer period as may be agreed to by the Company and the holder of the Stock Award (for example, for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Section 1202(c)(3) of the Code (regarding "qualified small business stock")) and (iii) such right shall be exercisable only for cash or cancellation of purchase money indebtedness for the shares.
Vesting
 
(e) . In the event a Participant's Continuous Status as an Employee, Director or Consultant terminates, the Company may repurchase or otherwise reacquire, subject to the limitations described in Article I, subsection 7(d), any or all of the shares of stock held by that person which have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement between the Company and such person.
Termination of Employment or Relationship as a Director or Consultant
 
8.
[RESERVED.]
 
9. .
COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY
 
(a) During the terms of the Stock Awards, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of shares of stock required to satisfy such Stock Awards.
 
(b) The Company shall seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to issue and sell shares of stock upon exercise of the Stock Award; , , that this undertaking shall not require the Company to register under the Securities Act either the Plan, any Stock Award or any stock issued or issuable pursuant to any such Stock Award. If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority which counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of stock under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell stock upon exercise of such Stock Awards unless and until such authority is obtained.
provided
however
 
10. .
USE OF PROCEEDS FROM STOCK
 
Proceeds from the sale of stock pursuant to Stock Awards shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
 
(a) Subject to any applicable provisions of the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968 and related regulations relied upon prior to the Listing Date as a condition of issuing securities pursuant to the Plan, the Board shall have the power to accelerate the time at which a Stock Award may first be exercised or the time during which a Stock Award or any part thereof will vest pursuant to Article I, subsection 6(e) or 7(d), notwithstanding the provisions in the Stock Award stating the time at which it may first be exercised or the time during which it will vest.
 
(b) Neither an Employee, Director or Consultant nor any person to whom a Stock Award is transferred under Article I, subsection 6(d) or 7(b) shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares subject to such Stock Award unless and until such person has satisfied all requirements for exercise of the Stock Award pursuant to its terms.
 
(c) Throughout the term of any Stock Award, the Company shall deliver to the holder of such Stock Award, not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of each of the Company's fiscal years during the term of such Stock Award, a balance sheet and an income statement. This subsection shall not apply (i) after the Listing Date or (ii) when issuance is limited to key employees whose duties in connection with the Company assure them access to equivalent information.
 
(d) Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Stock Award granted pursuant thereto shall confer upon any Employee, Director, Consultant or other holder of Stock Awards any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate (or to continue acting as a Director or Consultant) or shall affect the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment of any Employee with or without cause the right of the Company's
 
Board of Directors and/or the Company's stockholders to remove any Director as provided in the Company's Bylaws and the provisions of the applicable laws of the Company's state of incorporation or the right to terminate the relationship of any Consultant subject to the terms of such Consultant's agreement with the Company or Affiliate.
 
(e) To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time of grant) of stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Optionee during any calendar year under all plans of the Company and its Affiliates exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the Options or portions thereof which exceed such limit (according to the order in which they were granted) shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.
 
(f) The Company may require any person to whom a Stock Award is granted, or any person to whom a Stock Award is transferred pursuant to Article I, subsection 6(d) or 7(b), as a condition of exercising or acquiring stock under any Stock Award: (1) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to such person's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative reasonably satisfactory to the Company who is knowledgeable and experienced in financial and business matters, and that he or she is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Stock Award; and (2) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that such person is acquiring the stock subject to the Stock Award for such person's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the stock. The foregoing requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall be inoperative if (i) the issuance of the shares upon the exercise or acquisition of stock under the Stock Award has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act or (ii) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities laws. The Company may, upon advice of counsel to the Company, place legends on stock certificates issued under the Plan as such counsel deems necessary or appropriate in order to comply with applicable securities laws, including, but not limited to, legends restricting the transfer of the stock.
 
(g) To the extent provided by the terms of a Stock Award Agreement, the person to whom a Stock Award is granted may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the exercise or acquisition of stock under a Stock Award by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (1) tendering a cash payment; (2) authorizing the Company to withhold shares from the shares of the common stock otherwise issuable to the participant as a result of the exercise or acquisition of stock under the Stock Award having a Fair Market Value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (3) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the common stock of the Company having a Fair Market Value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
12. .
ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN STOCK
 
(a) If any change is made in the stock subject to the Plan, or subject to any Stock Award (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, reincorporation, stock dividend, dividend in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the Plan will be appropriately adjusted in the type(s) of securities subject to the Plan pursuant to Article I, subsection 4(a) and the outstanding Stock Awards will be appropriately adjusted in the type(s) and number of securities and price per share of stock subject to such outstanding Stock Awards. Such adjustments shall be made by the Board or the Committee, the determination of which shall be final, binding and conclusive. (The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as a "transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company".)
 
(b) In the event of: (1) a dissolution, liquidation or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; (2) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation; (3) a reverse merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation but the shares of the Company's common stock outstanding immediately preceding the merger are converted by virtue of the merger into other property, whether in the form of securities, cash or otherwise; (4) after the Listing Date the acquisition by any person, entity or group within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act, or any comparable successor provisions (excluding any employee benefit plan, or related trust, sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) of the beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, or comparable successor rule) of securities of the Company representing at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote in the election of directors; or (5) at the time individuals who, as of the first date as of which the Company has a class of equity securities which are actively traded on any established stock exchange or a national market system (including NASDAQ), constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to such date, whose election or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board, then: (i) any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation shall assume any Stock Awards outstanding under
 
the Plan or shall substitute similar stock awards (including an award to acquire the same consideration paid to the stockholders in the transaction described in this Article I, subsection 12(b)) for those outstanding under the Plan; or (ii) in the event any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation refuses to assume such Stock Awards or to substitute similar stock awards for those outstanding under the Plan, (A) with respect to Stock Awards held by persons then performing services as Employees, Directors or Consultants and subject to any applicable provisions of the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968 and related regulations relied upon as a condition of issuing securities pursuant to the Plan, the vesting of such Stock Awards (and, if applicable, the time during which such Stock Awards may be exercised) shall be accelerated prior to such event and the Stock Awards terminated if not exercised (if applicable) after such acceleration and at or prior to such event, and (B) with respect to any other Stock Awards outstanding under the Plan, such Stock Awards shall be terminated if not exercised (if applicable) prior to such event.
 
13. .
QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS
 
(a) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, rights under Stock Awards may be assigned to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides. (The terms "Alternate Payee" and "QDRO" are defined in Article I, subsection 13(c) below.) The assignment of a Stock Award to an Alternate Payee pursuant to a QDRO shall not be treated as having caused a new grant. The transfer of an Incentive Stock Option to an Alternate Payee may, however, cause it to fail to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. If a Stock Award is assigned to an Alternate Payee, the Alternate Payee generally has the same rights as the grantee under the terms of the Plan; , , that (i) the Stock Award shall be subject to the same vesting terms and exercise period as if the Stock Award were still held by the grantee, and (ii) an Alternate Payee may not transfer a Stock Award.
provided
however
 
(b) In the event of the Plan administrator's receipt of a domestic relations order or other notice of adverse claim by an Alternate Payee of a grantee of a Stock Award, transfer of the proceeds of the exercise of such Stock Award, whether in the form of cash, stock or other property, may be suspended. Such proceeds shall thereafter be transferred pursuant to the terms of a QDRO or other agreement between the grantee and Alternate Payee. A grantee's ability to exercise a Stock Award may be barred if the Plan administrator receives a court order directing the Plan administrator not to permit exercise.
 
(c) The word "QDRO" as used in Article I of the Plan shall mean a court order (i) that creates or recognizes the right of the spouse, former spouse or child (an "Alternate Payee") of an individual who is granted a Stock Award to an interest in such Stock Award relating to marital property rights or support obligations and (ii) that the administrator of the Plan determines would be a "qualified domestic relations order," as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Code and Section 206(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), but for the fact that the Plan is not a plan described in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
 
14. .
AMENDMENT OF STOCK AWARDS
 
(a) Rights and obligations under any Stock Award granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be impaired by any amendment of the Plan unless (i) the Company requests the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted and (ii) such person consents in writing.
 
(b) The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the terms of any one or more Stock Award; , , that the rights and obligations under any Stock Award shall not be impaired by any such amendment unless (i) the Company requests the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted and (ii) such person consents in writing.
provided
however
 
 
 
The following provisions of this Article II shall govern awards granted under the Plan after the Effective Time:
 
1. .
PURPOSE
 
(a) The purpose of Article II of the Plan is to provide a means by which employees or directors of and consultants to Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its Affiliates, as defined in Article II, subsection 1(b), directly, or indirectly through Trusts, may be given an opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the stock of the Company through the granting of (i) incentive stock options, (ii) nonqualified stock options, (iii) stock bonuses, and (iv) rights to purchase restricted stock, all as defined below.
 
(b) The word "Affiliate" as used in Article II of the Plan means (i) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or (ii) any domestic eligible entity that is disregarded under Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3, as an entity separate from either (I) the Company or (II) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.
 
(c) The Company, by means of Article II of the Plan, seeks to retain the services of persons now employed by or serving as directors or consultants to the Company, to secure and retain the services of persons capable of filling such positions, and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the Company.
 
(d) The Company intends that the rights issued under Article II of the Plan shall, in the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") or any committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to Article II, subsection 2(c), be either (i) stock options granted pursuant to Article II, Sections 5 or 6 hereof, including incentive stock options as that term is used in Section 422 of the Code ("Incentive Stock Options"), or options which do not qualify as Incentive Stock Options ("Nonqualified Stock Options") (together hereinafter referred to as "Options"), or (ii) stock bonuses or rights to purchase restricted stock granted pursuant to Article II, Section 7 hereof (all such rights included in (i) and (ii), collectively "Stock Awards").
 
(e) The word "Trust" as used in Article II of the Plan shall mean a trust created for the benefit of the employee, director or consultant, his or her spouse, or members of their
 
immediate family. The word optionee shall mean the person to whom the option is granted or the employee, director or consultant for whose benefit the option is granted to a Trust, as the context shall require.
 
2. .
ADMINISTRATION
 
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board unless and until the Board delegates administration to a committee, as provided in Article II, subsection 2(c).
 
(b) The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
 
(1) To determine from time to time which of the persons eligible under the Plan shall be granted Stock Awards; when and how Stock Awards shall be granted; whether a Stock Award will be an Incentive Stock Option, a Nonqualified Stock Option, a stock bonus, a right to purchase restricted stock, or a combination of the foregoing; the provisions of each Stock Award granted (which need not be identical), including the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase or receive stock pursuant to a Stock Award; and the number of shares with respect to which Stock Awards shall be granted to each such person.
 
(2) To construe and interpret the Plan and Stock Awards granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for its administration. The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan or in any Stock Award, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
 
(3) To amend the Plan as provided in Article II, Section 14.
 
(4) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company.
 
(c) The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a committee composed of not fewer than two (2) members of the Board (the "Committee"). One or more of these members may be non-employee directors and outside directors, if required and as defined by the provisions of Article II, subsections 2(e) and 2(f). If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board (except amendment of any program adopted pursuant to Article II, Section 6 or any Non-Discretionary Director Awards granted thereunder shall only be by action taken by the Board or a committee of one or more members of the Board to which such authority has been specifically delegated by the Board), subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of Article II of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board. Notwithstanding anything else in this Article II, subsection 2(c) to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board the authority to grant or amend Stock Awards to all employees, directors or consultants or any portion or class thereof.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may authorize by duly adopted resolution one or more Officers (as defined below) (each a "Delegated Officer") to take the actions described in Article II, subsection 2(b)(1) of the Plan with respect to Options only, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of Article II of the Plan; , , that a Delegated Officer shall not have the power to (1) grant any Options to himself, any non-employee director, consultant, Trust, other Delegated Officer or Officer, (2) determine the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase stock pursuant to the exercise of an Option (i.e., vesting), (3) determine the exercise price of an Option, or (4) grant any Option to a parent corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code. The resolution authorizing a Delegated Officer to act as such shall specify the total number of shares of Common Stock that a Delegated Officer may grant with respect to Options. The exercise price (including any formula by which such price or prices may be determined) and the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase stock pursuant to the exercise of an Option shall, however, be set by the Board or the Committee and not by a Delegated Officer to the extent required by Delaware General Corporation Law Section 157 or any other applicable law. The term "Officer" shall include any natural person who is elected as a corporate officer of the Company by the Board.
provided
however
 
(e) The term "non-employee director" shall mean a member of the Board who (i) is not currently an officer of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company (as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) or an employee of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company; (ii) does not receive compensation from the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company for services rendered in any capacity other than as a member of the Board (including a consultant) in an amount required to be disclosed to the Company's stockholders under Rule 404 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Rule 404"); (iii) does not possess an interest in any other transaction required to be disclosed under Rule 404; or (iv) is not engaged in a business relationship required to be disclosed under Rule 404, as all of these provisions are interpreted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
(f) The term "outside director," as used in Article II of the Plan, shall mean an administrator of the Plan, whether a member of the Board or of any Committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to Article II, subsection 2(c), who is considered to be an "outside director" in accordance with the rules, regulations or interpretations of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(g) Any requirement that an administrator of the Plan be a "non-employee director" or "outside director" shall not apply if the Board or the Committee expressly declares that such requirement shall not apply.
 
3. .
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 11 relating to adjustments upon changes in stock, the stock that may be issued pursuant to Stock Awards granted under the Plan after the Effective Time shall not exceed in the aggregate 1,153,152 shares of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock"), plus any forfeited shares and any shares which revert to and become available for issuance under Article II of the Plan pursuant to Article I, subsection 4(b). For purposes of this Article II, subsection 3(a), "forfeited shares" means any shares issued pursuant to Stock Awards made under the Plan which are forfeited to the Company pursuant to the Stock Award's terms and conditions; , , that the term "forfeited shares" shall not include shares as to which the original recipient received any benefits of ownership (other than voting rights).
provided
however
 
(b) If any Stock Award shall for any reason expire or otherwise terminate, in whole or in part, without having been exercised in full, the Common Stock not acquired under such Stock Award shall revert to and again become available for issuance under Article II of the Plan.
 
(c) For purposes of Article II, subsection 3(a), except as to forfeited shares, the payment of cash dividends and dividend equivalents in conjunction with outstanding awards shall not be counted against the shares available for issuance.
 
(d) An Incentive Stock Option may be granted to an eligible person under the Plan only if the aggregate fair market value (determined at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which incentive stock options (as defined by the Code) are exercisable for the first time by such optionee during any calendar year under all such plans of the Company and its Affiliates does not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). If it is determined that an entire Option or any portion thereof does not qualify for treatment as an Incentive Stock Option by reason of exceeding such maximum, such Option or the applicable portion shall be considered a Nonqualified Stock Option. In no event, however, except as adjusted pursuant to Article II, Section 11, shall be more than 902,006 of the shares eligible for issuance under the Plan in any calendar year be issued upon exercise of Incentive Stock Options under the Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no Incentive Stock Options shall be granted under Article II of the Plan unless the Company's stockholders approve the Plan within twelve months after the Restatement Date.
 
4. .
ELIGIBILITY
 
(a) Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees (including officers) of the Company or its Affiliates. A director of the Company shall not be eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options unless such director is also an employee of the Company or any Affiliate. Stock Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted to employees (including officers) or directors of or consultants to the Company or any Affiliate or to Trusts of any such employee, director or consultant. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Stock Award may be granted to any person who is an employee or director of or consultant to the Company or its Affiliates (other than Tularik Inc.) on the Restatement Date.
 
(b) A director shall in no event be eligible for the benefits of the Plan (other than Non-Discretionary Director Awards, as defined in Article II, Section 6) unless and until such director is expressly declared eligible to participate in the Plan by action of the Board or the Committee, and only if, at any time discretion is exercised by the Board or the Committee in the selection of a director as a person to whom Stock Awards may be granted, or in the determination of the number of shares which may be covered by Stock Awards granted to a director, the Plan complies with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect. The Board shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the restrictions set forth in this Article II, subsection 4(b) shall not apply if the Board or Committee expressly declares that such restrictions shall not apply.
 
(c) No person shall be eligible for the grant of an Incentive Stock Option under the Plan if, at the time of grant, such person owns (or is deemed to own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any of its Affiliates unless the exercise price of such Incentive Stock Option is at least one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the date of grant and the Incentive Stock Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant.
 
(d) Subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 11 relating to adjustments upon changes in Common Stock, no person shall be eligible to be granted Stock Awards covering more than 451,000 shares of Common Stock per person per calendar year.
 
5. .
TERMS OF DISCRETIONARY STOCK OPTIONS
 
An option granted pursuant to this Article II, Section 5 (a "Discretionary Stock Option") shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
(a) No Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
 
(b) The exercise price of each Incentive Stock Option and each Nonqualified Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.
 
(c) The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either: (i) in cash at the time the Option is exercised; or (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, at the time of grant of the Option (A) by delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock that have been held for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and valued at the fair market value on the date of exercise, (B) according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Option is granted or to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Article II, subsection 5(d), or (C) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued.
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be payable at least annually and shall be charged at not less than the minimum rate of interest necessary to avoid the treatment as interest, under any applicable provisions of the Code, of any amounts other than amounts stated to be interest under the deferred payment arrangement.
 
(d) An Option granted to a natural person shall be exercisable during the lifetime of such person only by such person, provided that such person during such person's lifetime may designate a Trust to be such person's beneficiary with respect to any Incentive Stock Options and with respect to any Nonqualified Stock Options, and such beneficiary shall, after the death of the person to whom the Option was granted, have all the rights that such person has while living, including the right to exercise the Option. In the absence of such designation, after the death of the person to whom the Option is granted, the Option shall be exercisable by the person or persons to whom the optionee's rights under such Option pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
(e) The total number of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option may, but need not, be allotted in periodic installments (which may, but need not, be equal). From time to time during each of such installment periods, the Option may become exercisable ("vest") with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to that period, and may be exercised with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to such period and/or any prior period as to which the Option was not fully exercised. During the remainder of the term of the Option (if its term extends beyond the end of the installment periods), the Option may be exercised from time to time with
 
respect to any shares then remaining subject to the Option. The provisions of this Article II, subsection 5(e) are subject to any Option provisions governing the minimum number of shares as to which an Option may be exercised.
 
(f) The Company may require any optionee, or any person to whom an Option is transferred under Article II, subsection 5(d), as a condition of exercising any such Option: (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to such person's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative who has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters, and that such person is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Option; and (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that such person is acquiring the Common Stock subject to the Option for such person's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Common Stock. These requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall be inoperative if: (x) the issuance of the shares upon the exercise of the Option has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"); or (y) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities law.
 
(g) An Option shall terminate three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate, unless the Option by its term specifies either (i) that it shall terminate sooner than three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate; or (ii) that it may be exercised more than three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate. This Article II, subsection 5(g) shall not be construed to extend the term of any Option or to permit anyone to exercise the Option after expiration of its term, nor shall it be construed to increase the number of shares as to which any Option is exercisable from the amount exercisable on the date of termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director.
 
(h) The Option may, but need not, include a provision whereby the optionee may elect at any time during the term of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or any Affiliate to exercise the Option as to any part or all of the shares subject to the Option prior to the stated vesting dates of the Option. Any shares so purchased from any unvested installment or Option may be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company or to any other restriction the Board or the Committee determines to be appropriate.
 
(i) To the extent provided by the terms of an Option, each optionee may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the exercise of such Option by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise issuable to the optionee as a result of the exercise of the Option a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the Common Stock having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
6. .
NON-DISCRETIONARY DIRECTOR AWARDS
 
The Board may from time to time adopt award programs under the Plan providing for the grant of formula or non-discretionary Stock Awards to directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any Affiliate ("Non-Discretionary Director Awards"). The terms and conditions of any such program shall be established by the Board in its sole discretion, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
7. .
TERMS OF STOCK BONUSES AND PURCHASES OF RESTRICTED STOCK
 
Each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate agreements need not be identical, but each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as appropriate:
 
(a) The purchase price under each stock purchase agreement shall be such amount as the Board or Committee shall determine and designate in such agreement, but the purchase price shall not be less than fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date such award is made. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may determine that eligible participants in the Plan may be awarded stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(b) No rights under a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be assignable by any participant under the Plan, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except where such assignment is required by law or expressly authorized by the terms of the applicable stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement.
 
(c) The purchase price of stock acquired pursuant to a stock purchase agreement shall be paid either: (i) in cash at the time of purchase; (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Common Stock is sold; or (iii) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price of the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee to which administration of the Plan has been delegated may award Common Stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(d) Shares of Common Stock sold or awarded under the Plan may, but need not, be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board or the Committee.
 
(e) In the event a person ceases to be an employee of or ceases to serve as a director or consultant to the Company or an Affiliate, the Company may repurchase or otherwise reacquire any or all of the shares of Common Stock held by that person which have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement between the Company and such person.
 
(f) To the extent provided by the terms of a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement, a participant may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the lapsing of a repurchase option in favor of the Company or vesting of a stock bonus or a restricted stock award by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise deliverable to a participant as a result of the lapsing of a repurchase option in favor of the Company or the vesting of a stock bonus or a restricted stock award a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the Common Stock having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
8. .
COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY
 
(a) During the terms of the Stock Awards granted under the Plan, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy such Stock Awards up to the number of shares of Common Stock authorized under the Plan.
 
(b) The Company shall seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to issue and sell shares of Common Stock under the Stock Awards granted under the Plan; , , that this undertaking shall not require the Company to register under the Securities Act either the Plan, any Stock Award granted under the Plan or any Common Stock issued or issuable pursuant to any such Stock Award. If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority that counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of Common Stock under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell Common Stock upon exercise of such Stock Awards unless and until such authority is obtained.
provided
however
 
9. .
USE OF PROCEEDS FROM COMMON STOCK
 
Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to Stock Awards granted under the Plan shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
10. .
MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a) The Board or Committee shall have the power to accelerate the time during which a Stock Award may be exercised or the time during which a Stock Award or any part thereof will vest, notwithstanding the provisions in the Stock Award stating the time during which it may be exercised or the time during which it will vest. Each Discretionary Stock Option providing for vesting pursuant to Article II, subsection 5(e) may also provide that if the employee's employment or a director's or consultant's affiliation with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is terminated by reason of death or disability, then the vesting schedule of Discretionary Stock Options granted to such employee, director or consultant or to the Trusts of such employee, director or consultant may be accelerated.
 
(b) Neither an optionee nor any person to whom an Option is transferred under the provisions of the Plan shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares subject to such Option unless and until such person has satisfied all requirements for exercise of the Option pursuant to its terms.
 
(c) Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Stock Award granted pursuant thereto shall confer upon any eligible employee, consultant, director, optionee or holder of Stock Awards under the Plan any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate or to continue acting as a consultant or director or shall affect the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment or consulting relationship or directorship of any eligible employee, consultant, director, optionee or holder of Stock Awards under the Plan with or without cause. In the event that a holder of Stock Awards under the Plan is permitted or otherwise entitled to take a leave of absence, the Company shall have the unilateral right to (i) determine whether such leave of absence will be treated as a termination of employment or
 
relationship as consultant or director for purposes hereof, and (ii) suspend or otherwise delay the time or times at which exercisability or vesting would otherwise occur with respect to any outstanding Stock Awards under the Plan.
 
(d) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Board or the Committee shall have the power to condition the grant or vesting of stock bonuses and rights to purchase restricted stock under the Plan upon the attainment of performance goals, determined by the Board or the Committee in their respective sole discretion, with respect to any one or more of the following business criteria with respect to the Company, any Affiliate, any division, any operating unit or any product line: (i) return on capital, assets or equity, (ii) sales or revenue, (iii) net income, (iv) cash flow, (v) earnings per share, (vi) adjusted earnings or adjusted net income as defined below, (vii) working capital, (vii) total shareholder return, (ix) economic value or (x) product development, research, in-licensing, out-licensing, litigation, human resources, information services, manufacturing, manufacturing capacity, production, inventory, site development, plant, building or facility development, government relations, product market share, mergers, acquisitions or sales of assets or subsidiaries. "Adjusted net income" and "adjusted earnings" shall mean net income or earnings, as the case may be, for the relevant performance period computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. which may be adjusted by the Committee, as specified in writing, for such performance period, at the time a performance goal is established for the performance period, for the following: (a) any item of significant gain or loss for the performance period determined to be related to a change in accounting principle as reflected in the Company's audited consolidated financial statements, (b) amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets, (c) expenses associated with acquired in-process research and development and (d) any other items of significant income or expense which are determined to be appropriate adjustments and are specified in writing by the Committee at the time the goal is established for the performance period. With respect to any stock bonuses or rights to purchase restricted stock granted to persons who are or who may be "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board or the Committee shall have the power to grant such awards upon terms and conditions that qualify such awards as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Stock bonuses and rights to purchase restricted stock made in accordance with this Article II, subsection 10(d) shall contain the terms and conditions of Article II, Section 7 above.
 
11. .
ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN COMMON STOCK
 
If any change is made in the Common Stock subject to the Plan, or subject to any Stock Award granted under the Plan (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, dividend in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating
 
dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the Plan and outstanding Stock Awards will be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and maximum number of shares subject to the Plan, the maximum number of shares which may be granted to a participant in a calendar year, the class(es) and number of shares and price per share of stock subject to outstanding Stock Awards, and the number of shares of Common Stock to be granted as Non-Discretionary Director Awards, if any. Such adjustment shall be made by the Board or the Committee, the determination of which shall be final, binding and conclusive. (The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as a "transaction not involving the receipt of consideration".)
 
12. .
CHANGE OF CONTROL
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, in the event of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined), then, to the extent permitted by applicable law: (i) the time during which Stock Awards become vested shall automatically be accelerated so that the unvested portions of all Stock Awards shall be vested prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the time during which the Options may be exercised shall automatically be accelerated to prior to the Change in Control. Upon and following the acceleration of the vesting and exercise periods, at the election of the holder of the Stock Award, the Stock Award may be: (x) exercised (with respect to Options) or, if the surviving or acquiring corporation agrees to assume the Stock Awards or substitute similar stock awards, (y) assumed; or (z) replaced with substitute stock awards. Options not exercised, substituted or assumed prior to or upon the Change in Control shall be terminated.
 
(b) For purposes of Article II of the Plan, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at any of the following times:
 
(i) upon the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or its affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or its affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
 
(ii) at the time individuals who, as of the Restatement Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Restatement Date, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of
 
at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of Article II of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
 
(iii) immediately prior to the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
 
(iv) the occurrence of any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole discretion determines constitutes a Change of Control.
 
13. .
QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS
 
(a) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, rights under Stock Awards may be assigned to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides. (The terms "Alternate Payee" and "QDRO" are defined in Article II, subsection 13(c) below.) The assignment of a Stock Award to an Alternate Payee pursuant to a QDRO shall not be treated as having caused a new grant. The transfer of an Incentive Stock Option to an Alternate Payee may, however, cause it to fail to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. If a Stock Award is assigned to an Alternate Payee, the Alternate Payee generally has the same rights as the grantee under the terms of the Plan; , , that (i) the Stock Award shall be subject to the same vesting terms and exercise period as if the Stock Award were still held by the grantee, and (ii) an Alternate Payee may not transfer a Stock Award.
provided
however
 
(b) In the event of the Plan administrator's receipt of a domestic relations order or other notice of adverse claim by an Alternate Payee of a grantee of a Stock Award, transfer of the proceeds of the exercise of such Stock Award, whether in the form of cash, stock or other property, may be suspended. Such proceeds shall thereafter be transferred pursuant to the terms of a QDRO or other agreement between the grantee and Alternate Payee. A grantee's ability to exercise a Stock Award may be barred if the Plan administrator receives a court order directing the Plan administrator not to permit exercise.
 
(c) The word "QDRO" as used in Article II of the Plan shall mean a court order (i) that creates or recognizes the right of the spouse, former spouse or child (an "Alternate Payee") of an individual who is granted a Stock Award
 
to an interest in such Stock Award relating to marital property rights or support obligations and (ii) that the administrator of the Plan determines would be a "qualified domestic relations order," as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Code and Section 206(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), but for the fact that the Plan is not a plan described in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
 
14. .
AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN
 
(a) The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the Plan. However, except as provided in Article II, Section 11 relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the adoption of the amendment, where the amendment will:
 
(i) increase the number of shares reserved for Stock Awards under the Plan;
 
(ii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan (to the extent such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 422(b) of the Code); or
 
(iii) modify the Plan in any other way if such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 422(b) of the Code.
 
(b) The Board may in its sole discretion submit any other amendment to the Plan for stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, amendments to the Plan intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder regarding the exclusion of performance-based compensation from the limit on corporate deductibility of compensation to certain executive officers.
 
(c) It is expressly contemplated that the Board may amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable to provide optionees with the maximum benefits provided or to be provided under the provisions of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder relating to employee Incentive Stock Options and/or to bring the Plan and/or Options granted under it into compliance therewith.
 
(d) Rights and obligations under any Stock Award granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be impaired by any amendment of the Plan, unless: (i) the Company requests the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted; and (ii) such person consents in writing.
 
15. .
TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE PLAN
 
(a) The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. Unless sooner terminated, the Plan shall terminate on March 2, 2007. No Stock Awards may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated.
 
(b) Rights and obligations under any Stock Awards granted while the Plan is in effect shall not be impaired by suspension or termination of the Plan, except with the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
Amgen Inc. has adopted this Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of March 7, 2005. This Plan amends and restates in its entirety the Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan, as previously amended and restated on July 15, 2002 (the "Restatement Date"), which amended and restated in its entirety the Immunex Corporation 1999 Stock Option Plan, as amended (the "Original Plan").
 
 
 
The following provisions of this Article I shall govern awards granted under the Plan prior to the Restatement Date:
 
SECTION 1. .
PURPOSE
 
The purpose of Article I of the Plan is to enhance the long-term stockholder value of Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), by offering opportunities to selected employees, officers and directors to participate in the Company's growth and success, and to encourage them to remain in the service of the Company and its Related Corporations (as defined in Article I, Section 2) and to acquire and maintain stock ownership in the Company.
 
SECTION 2. .
DEFINITIONS
 
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Cause" means dishonesty, fraud, misconduct, unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets, or conviction or confession of a crime punishable by law (except minor violations), in each case as determined by the Plan Administrator, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding.
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
"Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $.0001 per share, of the Company.
 
"Disability," unless otherwise defined by the Plan Administrator, means a mental or physical impairment of the Optionee that is expected to result in death or that has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of 12 months or more and that causes the Optionee to be unable, in the opinion of the Company and one independent physician selected by the Company, to perform his or her duties for the Company or a Related Corporation and to be engaged in any substantial gainful activity.
 
"Effective Date" means the date on which the Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors of Immunex Corporation ("Immunex"), provided that it was approved by Immunex's stockholders at any time within 12 months of such adoption.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
"Exchange Stock" has the meaning set forth in Article I, Section 11.3.
 
"Fair Market Value" shall be as established in good faith by the Plan Administrator or (a) if the Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market, the closing per share sales prices for the Common Stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market for a single trading day or (b) if the Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, the closing per share sales prices for the Common Stock as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange for a single trading day. If there is no such reported price for the Common Stock for the date in question, then such price on the last preceding date for which such price exists shall be determinative of Fair Market Value.
 
"Grant Date" means the date on which the Plan Administrator completes the corporate action relating to the grant of an Option and all conditions precedent to the grant have been satisfied, provided that conditions to the exercisability or vesting of Options shall not defer the Grant Date.
 
"Incentive Stock Option" means an Option to purchase Common Stock granted under Article I, Section 7 with the intention that it qualify as an "incentive stock option" as that term is defined in Section 422 of the Code.
 
"Nonqualified Stock Option" means an Option to purchase Common Stock granted under Article I, Section 7 other than an Incentive Stock Option.
 
"Option" means the right to purchase Common Stock granted under Article I, Section 7.
 
"Optionee" means (a) the person to whom an Option is granted; (b) for an Optionee who has died, the personal representative of the Optionee's estate, the person(s) to whom the Optionee's rights under the Option have passed by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution, or the beneficiary designated in accordance with Article I, Section 10; or (c) the person(s) to whom an Option has been transferred in accordance with Article I, Section 10.
 
"Option Term" has the meaning set forth in Article I, Section 7.3.
 
"Parent," except as provided in Article I, Section 8.3 in connection with Incentive Stock Options, means any entity, whether now or hereafter existing, that directly or indirectly controls the Company.
 
"Plan Administrator" means the Board or any committee or committees designated by the Board or any person to whom the Board has delegated authority to administer the Plan under Article I, Section 3.1.
 
"Related Corporation" means any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
 
"Retirement" means retirement as of the individual's normal retirement date under the Amgen Inc. Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan and Trust or other similar successor plan applicable to salaried employees, unless otherwise defined by the Plan Administrator from time to time for purposes of Article I of the Plan.
 
"Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
"Subsidiary," except as provided in Article I, Section 8.3 in connection with Incentive Stock Options, means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company.
 
"Termination Date" has the meaning set forth in Article I, Section 7.6.
 
SECTION 3. .
ADMINISTRATION
 
3.1 .
Plan Administrator
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Board and/or a committee or committees (which term includes subcommittees) appointed by, and consisting of two or more members of, the Board (a "Plan Administrator"). If and so long as the Common Stock is registered under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, the Board shall consider in selecting the members of any committee acting as Plan Administrator, with respect to any persons subject or likely to become subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the provisions regarding (a) "outside directors" as contemplated by Section 162(m) of the Code and (b) "nonemployee directors" as contemplated by Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The Board may delegate the responsibility for administering the Plan with respect to designated classes of eligible persons to different committees consisting of two or more members of the Board, subject to such limitations as the Board deems appropriate. Committee members shall serve for such term as the Board may determine, subject to removal by the Board at any time. To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Board may authorize one or more senior executive officers of the Company to grant Options to specified eligible persons, within the limits specifically prescribed by the Board.
 
3.2 .
Administration and Interpretation by Plan Administrator
 
Except for the terms and conditions explicitly set forth in the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall have exclusive authority, in its discretion, to determine all matters relating to Options under the Plan, including the selection of individuals to be granted Options, the type of Options, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option, all terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations, if any, of an Option and the terms of any instrument that evidences the Option. The Plan Administrator shall also have exclusive authority to interpret the Plan and may from time to time adopt, and change, rules and regulations of general application for the Plan's administration. The Plan Administrator's interpretation of the Plan and its rules and regulations, and all actions taken and determinations made by the Plan Administrator pursuant to the Plan, shall be conclusive and binding on all parties involved or affected. The Plan Administrator may delegate administrative duties to such of the Company's officers as it so determines.
 
SECTION 4. .
STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
4.1 .
Shares Available for Issuance
 
Subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Article I, Section 11.1, shares of Common Stock shall be available for issuance under the Plan. Shares issued under the Plan shall be drawn from authorized and unissued shares or shares now held or subsequently acquired by the Company.
 
4.2 .
Reuse of Shares
 
Any shares of Common Stock that have been made subject to an Option that cease to be subject to the Option (other than by reason of exercise of the Option to the extent it is exercised for shares) shall again be available for issuance in connection with future grants of Options under the Plan; , , that for purposes of any individual award limit under the Plan, any such shares shall be counted in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided
however
 
SECTION 5. .
ELIGIBILITY
 
Options may be granted under the Plan to those officers, directors and employees of the Company and its Related Corporations as the Plan Administrator from time to time selects.
 
SECTION 6. .
ACQUIRED COMPANY OPTIONS
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Plan Administrator may grant Options under the Plan in substitution for awards issued under other plans, or assume under the Plan awards issued under other plans, if the other plans are or were plans of other acquired entities ("Acquired Entities") (or the parent of the Acquired Entity) and the new Option is substituted, or the old option is assumed, by reason of a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or of stock, reorganization or liquidation (the "Acquisition Transaction"). In the event that a written agreement pursuant to which the Acquisition Transaction is completed is approved by the Board and said agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the
 
substitution for or assumption of outstanding options of the Acquired Entity, said terms and conditions shall be deemed to be the action of the Plan Administrator without any further action by the Plan Administrator, except as may be required for compliance with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, and the persons holding such awards shall be deemed to be Optionees.
 
SECTION 7.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS.
 
7.1
Grant of Options.
 
The Plan Administrator is authorized under the Plan, in its sole discretion, to issue Options as Incentive Stock Options or as Nonqualified Stock Options, which shall be appropriately designated.
 
7.2
Option Exercise Price.
 
The exercise price for shares purchased under an Option shall be as determined by the Plan Administrator, but shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Grant Date with respect to Incentive Stock Options and not less than 85% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Grant Date with respect to Nonqualified Stock Options. For Incentive Stock Options granted to a more than 10% stockholder, the Option exercise price shall be as specified in Article I, Section 8.2.
 
7.3
Term of Options.
 
The term of each Option (the "Option Term") shall be as established by the Plan Administrator or, if not so established, shall be 10 years from the Grant Date. For Incentive Stock Options, the maximum Option Term shall be as specified in Article I, Sections 8.2 and 8.4.
 
7.4
Exercise of Options.
 
The Plan Administrator shall establish and set forth in each instrument that evidences an Option the time at which, or the installments in which, the Option shall vest and become exercisable, which provisions may be waived or modified by the Plan Administrator at any time. If not so established in the instrument evidencing the Option, the Option shall vest and
 
become exercisable according to the following schedule, which may be waived or modified by the Plan Administrator at any time:
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option granted under Article I of the Plan shall become 100% vested and exercisable on the date of termination of an Optionee's employment or service relationship with the Company or a Related Corporation on account of the Optionee's death, provided that the Optionee has been in the continuous employment of or service to the Company or a Related Corporation for at least two years at the date of such Optionee's death.
 
The Plan Administrator may adjust the vesting schedule of an Option held by an Optionee who works less than "full-time" as that term is defined by the Plan Administrator.
 
To the extent that the right to purchase shares has accrued thereunder, an Option may be exercised from time to time by delivery to the Company of a stock option exercise agreement or notice, in a form and in accordance with procedures established by the Plan Administrator, setting forth the number of shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, the restrictions imposed on the shares purchased under such exercise agreement, if any, and such representations and agreements as may be required by the Company, accompanied by payment in full as described in Article I, Section 7.5. An Option may not be exercised as to less than a reasonable number of shares at any one time, as determined by the Plan Administrator.
 
7.5
Payment of Exercise Price.
 
The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either: (i) in cash at the time the
 
Option is exercised; or (ii) at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, either at the time of grant or exercise of the Option (A) by delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock that have been held for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and valued at the fair market value on the date of exercise, (B) according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Option is granted or to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Article I, Section 10, or (C) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Plan Administrator in its discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued.
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be payable at least annually and shall be charged at not less than the minimum rate of interest necessary to avoid the treatment as interest, under any applicable provisions of the Code, of any amounts other than amounts stated to be interest under the deferred payment arrangement.
 
7.6
Post-Termination Exercises.
 
The Plan Administrator shall establish and set forth in each instrument that evidences an Option whether the Option shall continue to be exercisable, and the terms and conditions of such exercise, if an Optionee ceases to be employed by, or to provide services to, the Company or its Related Corporations, which provisions may be waived or modified by the Plan Administrator at any time. If not so established in the instrument evidencing the Option, the Option shall be exercisable according to the following terms and conditions, which may be waived or modified by the Plan Administrator at any time:
 
(a) Any portion of an Option that is not vested and exercisable on the date of termination of the Optionee's employment or service relationship (the "Termination Date") shall expire on such date, unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise.
 
(b) Any portion of an Option that is vested and exercisable on the Termination Date shall expire upon the earliest to occur of:
 
(i) the last day of the Option Term;
 
(ii) if the Optionee's Termination Date occurs for reasons other than Cause, Disability, death or Retirement, the three-month anniversary of such Termination Date; and
 
(iii) if the Optionee's Termination Date occurs by reason of Disability, death or Retirement, the one-year anniversary of such Termination Date.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Optionee dies after the Termination Date while the Option is otherwise exercisable, the Option shall expire upon the earlier to occur of (y) the last day of the Option Term and (z) the first anniversary of the date of death.
 
Also notwithstanding the foregoing, in case of termination of the Optionee's employment or service relationship for Cause, the Option shall automatically expire upon first notification to the Optionee of such termination, unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise. If an Optionee's employment or service relationship with the Company is suspended pending an investigation of whether the Optionee shall be terminated for Cause, all the Optionee's rights under any Option likewise shall be suspended during the period of investigation.
 
An Optionee's transfer of employment or service relationship between or among the Company and its Related Corporations, or a change in status from an employee to a consultant that is evidenced by a written agreement between an Optionee and the Company or a Related Corporation, shall not be considered a termination of employment or service relationship for purposes of this Article I, Section 7. Employment or service relationship shall be deemed to continue while the Optionee is on a bona fide leave of absence, if such leave was approved by the Company or a Related Corporation in writing and if continued crediting of service for purposes of this Article I, Section 7 is expressly required by the terms of such leave or by applicable law (as determined by the Company). The effect of a Company-approved leave of absence on the terms and conditions of an Option shall be determined by the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion.
 
SECTION 8.
INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION LIMITATIONS.
 
To the extent required by Section 422 of the Code, Incentive Stock Options shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
 
8.1
Dollar Limitation.
 
To the extent the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the Grant Date) of Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under the Plan and all other stock option plans of the Company) exceeds $100,000, such portion in excess of $100,000 shall be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option. In the event the Optionee holds two or more such Options that become exercisable for the first time in the same calendar year, such limitation shall be applied on the basis of the order in which such Options are granted.
 
8.2
More Than 10% Stockholders.
 
If an individual owns more than 10% of the total voting power of all classes of the Company's stock, then the exercise price per share of an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Grant Date and the Option Term shall not exceed five years. The determination of more than 10% ownership shall be made in accordance with Section 422 of the Code.
 
8.3
Eligible Employees.
 
Individuals who are not employees of the Company or one of its parent corporations or subsidiary corporations may not be granted Incentive Stock Options. For purposes of this Article I, Section 8.3, "parent corporation" and "subsidiary corporation" shall have the meanings attributed to those terms for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.
 
8.4 .
Term
 
Except as provided in Article I, Section 8.2, the Option Term shall not exceed 10 years.
 
8.5
Exercisability.
 
An Option designated as an Incentive Stock Option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Stock Option to the extent it is exercised (if permitted by the terms of the Option) (a) more than three months after the Termination Date for reasons other than death or Disability, (b) more than one year after the Termination Date by reason of Disability,
 
or (c) after the Optionee has been on leave of absence for more than 90 days, unless the Optionee's reemployment rights are guaranteed by statute or contract.
 
For purposes of this Article I, Section 8.5, Disability shall mean "disability" as that term is defined for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.
 
8.6
Taxation of Incentive Stock Options.
 
In order to obtain certain tax benefits afforded to Incentive Stock Options under Section 422 of the Code, the Optionee must hold the shares issued upon the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option for two years after the Grant Date and one year from the date of exercise. An Optionee may be subject to the alternative minimum tax at the time of exercise of an Incentive Stock Option. The Optionee shall give the Company prompt notice of any disposition of shares acquired by the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option prior to the expiration of such holding periods.
 
SECTION 9. .
WITHHOLDING
 
The Company may require the Optionee to pay to the Company the amount of any withholding taxes that the Company is required to withhold with respect to the grant, vesting or exercise of any Option. Subject to the Plan and applicable law, the Plan Administrator may, in its sole discretion, permit the Optionee to satisfy withholding obligations, in whole or in part, by paying cash, by electing to have the Company withhold shares of Common Stock or by transferring shares of Common Stock to the Company, in such amounts as are equivalent to the Fair Market Value of the withholding obligation. The Company shall have the right to withhold from any Option or any shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to an Option or from any cash amounts otherwise due or to become due from the Company to the Optionee an amount equal to such taxes. The Company may also deduct from any Option any other amounts due from the Optionee to the Company or a Related Corporation.
 
SECTION 10. .
ASSIGNABILITY
 
Options granted under Article I of the Plan and any interest therein may not be assigned, pledged or transferred by the Optionee and may not be made subject to attachment or similar proceedings otherwise than by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution, and,
 
during the Optionee's lifetime, such Options may be exercised only by the Optionee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and to the extent permitted by Section 422 of the Code, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, may permit such assignment, transfer and exercisability and may permit an Optionee to designate a beneficiary who may exercise the Option or receive compensation under the Option after the Optionee's death; , , that any Option so assigned or transferred shall be subject to all the same terms and conditions contained in the instrument evidencing the Option.
provided
however
 
SECTION 11.
ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION.
 
11.1
Adjustment of Shares.
 
The aggregate number and class of shares for which Options may be granted under the Plan, the number and class of shares covered by each outstanding Option and the exercise price per share thereof (but not the total price), shall all be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a split-up or consolidation of shares or any like capital adjustment, or the payment of any stock dividend (not including the stock dividend approved by the Board of Directors of Immunex on February 23, 1999).
 
11.2
Cash, Stock or Other Property for Stock.
 
Except as provided in Article I, Section 11.3, upon a merger (other than a merger of the Company in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of Common Stock in the surviving corporation immediately after the merger), consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization (other than a mere reincorporation or the creation of a holding company) or liquidation of the Company, as a result of which the stockholders of the Company receive cash, stock or other property in exchange for or in connection with their shares of Common Stock, any Option granted hereunder shall terminate, but the Optionee shall have the right immediately prior to any such merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation or reorganization to exercise such Option in whole or in part whether or not the vesting requirements set forth in the Option agreement have been satisfied.
 
11.3
Conversion of Options on Stock for Stock Exchange.
 
If the stockholders of the Company receive capital stock of another corporation ("Exchange Stock") in exchange for their shares of Common Stock in any transaction involving a merger (other than a merger of the Company in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of Common Stock in the surviving corporation immediately after the merger), consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation or reorganization (other than a mere reincorporation or the creation of a holding company), the Company and the corporation issuing the Exchange Stock, in their sole discretion, may determine that all Options granted hereunder shall be converted into options to purchase shares of Exchange Stock instead of terminating in accordance with the provisions of Article I, Section 11.2. The amount and price of converted options shall be determined by adjusting the amount and price of the Options granted hereunder in the same proportion as used for determining the number of shares of Exchange Stock the holders of the Common Stock receive in such merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation or reorganization. Unless accelerated by the Board, the vesting schedule set forth in the Option agreement shall continue to apply to the options granted for the Exchange Stock. The aggregate number and kind of shares for which options may be granted under this Plan shall be proportionately adjusted in the event of such merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, liquidation or reorganization.
 
11.4
Fractional Shares.
 
In the event of any adjustment in the number of shares covered by any Option, any fractional shares resulting from such adjustment shall be disregarded and each such Option shall cover only the number of full shares resulting from such adjustment.
 
11.5
Determination of Board to Be Final.
 
All Article I, Section 11 adjustments shall be made by the Plan Administrator, and its determination as to what adjustments shall be made, and the extent thereof, shall be final, binding and conclusive. Unless an Optionee agrees otherwise, any change or adjustment to an Incentive Stock Option shall be made in such a manner so as not to constitute a "modification" as defined in Section 424(h) of the Code and so as not to cause his or her Incentive Stock Option issued hereunder to fail to continue to qualify as an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422(b) of the Code.
 
11.6
Limitations.
 
The grant of Options shall in no way affect the Company's right to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
 
SECTION 12.
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN.
 
12.1
Amendment of Plan.
 
The Plan may be amended only by the Board in such respects as it shall deem advisable; , , that to the extent required for compliance with Section 422 of the Code or any applicable law or regulation, stockholder approval shall be required for any amendment that would (a) increase the total number of shares available for issuance under the Plan, (b) modify the class of persons eligible to receive Options, or (c) otherwise require stockholder approval under any applicable law or regulation. Any amendment made to the Plan that would constitute a "modification" to Incentive Stock Options outstanding on the date of such amendment shall not, without the consent of the Optionee, be applicable to such outstanding Incentive Stock Options but shall have prospective effect only.
provided
however
 
12.2
Termination of Plan.
 
The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. The Plan shall have no fixed expiration date; , , that no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than 10 years after the later of (a) the Plan's adoption by the Board of Directors of Immunex and (b) the adoption by the Board of Directors of Immunex of any amendment to the Plan that constitutes the adoption of a new plan for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.
provided
however
 
12.3
Consent of Optionee.
 
The amendment or termination of the Plan or the amendment of an outstanding Option shall not, without the Optionee's consent, impair or diminish any rights or obligations under any Option theretofore granted to the Optionee under the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no outstanding Option shall be terminated without the consent of the Optionee. Any change or adjustment to an outstanding Incentive Stock Option shall not, without the consent of the Optionee, be made in a manner so as to constitute a "modification" that would cause such Incentive Stock Option to fail to continue to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
 
SECTION 13. .
GENERAL
 
13.1
Evidence of Options.
 
Options granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written instrument that shall contain such terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions as the Plan Administrator shall deem advisable and that are not inconsistent with the Plan.
 
13.2
No Individual Rights.
 
Nothing in the Plan or any Option granted under the Plan shall be deemed to constitute an employment contract or confer or be deemed to confer on any Optionee any right to continue in the employ of, or to continue any other relationship with, the Company or any Related Corporation or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Related Corporation of the Company to terminate an Optionee's employment or other relationship at any time, with or without Cause.
 
13.3
Registration.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver any shares of Common Stock under the Plan or make any other distribution of benefits under the Plan unless such issuance, delivery or distribution would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the requirements of the Securities Act), and the applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity.
 
The Company shall be under no obligation to any Optionee to register for offering or resale or to qualify for exemption under the Securities Act, or to register or qualify under state securities laws, any shares of Common Stock, security or interest in a security paid or issued under, or created by, the Plan, or to continue in effect any such registrations or qualifications if made. The Company may issue certificates for shares with such legends and subject to such restrictions on transfer and stop-transfer instructions as counsel for the Company deems necessary or desirable for compliance by the Company with federal and state securities laws.
 
To the extent that the Plan or any instrument evidencing an Option provides for issuance of stock certificates to reflect the issuance of shares of Common Stock, the issuance may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of any stock exchange.
 
13.4
No Rights as a Stockholder.
 
No Option shall entitle the Optionee to any cash dividend, voting or other right of a stockholder unless and until the date of issuance under the Plan of the shares that are the subject of such Option.
 
13.5
Compliance With Laws and Regulations.
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, may bifurcate the Plan so as to restrict, limit or condition the use of any provision of the Plan to Optionees who are officers or directors subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act without so restricting, limiting or conditioning the Plan with respect to other Optionees. Additionally, in interpreting and applying the provisions of the Plan, any Option granted as an Incentive Stock Option pursuant to the Plan shall, to the extent permitted by law, be construed as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
 
13.6
Optionees in Foreign Countries.
 
The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of foreign countries in which the Company or its Related Corporations may operate to assure the viability of the benefits from Options granted to Optionees employed in such countries and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
 
13.7
No Trust or Fund.
 
The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan. Nothing contained herein shall require the Company to segregate any monies or other property, or shares of Common Stock, or to create any trusts, or to make any special deposits for any immediate or deferred amounts payable to any Optionee, and no Optionee shall have any rights that are greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.
 
13.8
Severability.
 
If any provision of the Plan or any Option is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or as to any person, or would disqualify the Plan or any Option under any law deemed applicable by the Plan Administrator, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or, if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the Plan Administrator's determination, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Option, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, person or Option, and the remainder of the Plan and any such Option shall remain in full force and effect.
 
13.9
Choice of Law.
 
The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
SECTION 14. .
EFFECTIVE DATE
 
The Effective Date of the Original Plan was the date on which it was adopted by the Board of Directors of Immunex, provided that it was approved by Immunex's stockholders at any time within 12 months of such adoption.
 
SECTION 15.
ADDENDUM TO ARTICLE I OF THE PLAN.
 
Notwithstanding anything in Article I of the Plan or any program adopted under the Original Plan to the contrary, effective as of the Effective Time (as defined in the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between the Company, AMS Acquisition Inc. and Immunex dated as of December 16, 2001, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 15, 2002 (as amended, the "Merger Agreement")), the following provisions shall constitute an addendum (the "Addendum") to Article I of the Plan:
 
15.1. At the Effective Time, each option granted pursuant Article I of the Plan shall be treated in accordance with the applicable terms of the Merger Agreement.
 
15.2. In the event that an optionee's employment with Immunex or the Company is terminated by the optionee for Good Reason or by Immunex or the Company without Cause during the fifteen (15) months following the Effective Time, each option held by such optionee for Common Stock that was granted pursuant to the Merger Agreement with respect to (a) a Cancelled Company Option (as defined in the Merger Agreement) or (b) an option for common stock of Immunex that was granted after December 16, 2001, shall immediately vest in full and shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the optionee's termination of employment or (y) the end of the term of such option.
 
15.3. In the event that an optionee who is a nonemployee director of Immunex immediately prior to the Effective Time ceases to be a director of Immunex or the Company for any reason immediately prior to, at, or during the fifteen (15) months following the Effective Time, each option held by such optionee for Common Stock shall immediately vest in full and shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the date such optionee ceases to be a director of Immunex or the Company or (y) the end of the term of such option.
 
15.4. For purposes of this Addendum only, "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence on or after the Effective Time and without the optionee's consent of, (a) a reduction in the optionee's annual base salary or wages, other than as part of a general reduction applicable to substantially all employees of Immunex or the Company employed in the United States or (ii) the relocation of the optionee's principal place of employment to a location more than fifty (50) miles from the optionee's principal place of employment prior to the Effective Time.
 
15.5. For purposes of this Addendum only, "Cause" shall mean (a) the willful and continued failure by the optionee to substantially perform the optionee's duties with Immunex or the Company (other than such failure resulting form the optionee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) or (b) the willful engaging by the optionee in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to Immunex or the Company, monetarily or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, no act, or failure to act, on the optionee's part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by the optionee not in good faith or without reasonable belief that the optionee's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of Immunex or the Company.
 
 
 
The following provisions of this Article II shall govern awards granted under the Plan on or after the Restatement Date:
 
SECTION 1. .
PURPOSE
 
(a) The purpose of Article II of the Plan is to provide a means by which employees or directors of and consultants to Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and its Affiliates, as defined in Article II, paragraph 1(b), directly, or indirectly through Trusts, may be given an opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the stock of the Company through the granting of (i) incentive stock options, (ii) nonqualified stock options, (iii) stock bonuses, and (iv) rights to purchase restricted stock, all as defined below.
 
(b) The word "Affiliate" as used in Article II of the Plan means (a) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (b) any domestic eligible entity that is disregarded, under Treasury Regulation Section 301.7701-3, as an entity separate from either (i) the Company or (ii) any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.
 
(c) The Company, by means of Article II of the Plan, seeks to retain the services of persons now employed by or serving as directors or consultants to the Company, to secure and retain the services of persons capable of filling such positions, and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the Company.
 
(d) The Company intends that the rights issued under Article II of the Plan shall, in the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") or any committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to Article II, paragraph 2(c), be either (i) stock options granted pursuant to Article II, Sections 5 or 6 hereof, including incentive stock options as that term is used in Section 422 of the Code ("Incentive Stock Options"), or options which do not qualify as Incentive Stock Options ("Nonqualified
 
Stock Options") (together hereinafter referred to as "Options"), or (ii) stock bonuses or rights to purchase restricted stock granted pursuant to Article II, Section 7 hereof (all such rights included in (i) and (ii), collectively "Stock Awards").
 
(e) The word "Trust" as used in Article II of the Plan shall mean a trust created for the benefit of the employee, director or consultant, his or her spouse, or members of their immediate family. The word optionee shall mean the person to whom the option is granted or the employee, director or consultant for whose benefit the option is granted to a Trust, as the context shall require.
 
SECTION 2.
ADMINISTRATION.
 
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board unless and until the Board delegates administration to a committee, as provided in Article II, paragraph 2(c).
 
(b) The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
 
(1) To determine from time to time which of the persons eligible under the Plan shall be granted Stock Awards; when and how Stock Awards shall be granted; whether a Stock Award will be an Incentive Stock Option, a Nonqualified Stock Option, a stock bonus, a right to purchase restricted stock, or a combination of the foregoing; the provisions of each Stock Award granted (which need not be identical), including the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase or receive stock pursuant to a Stock Award; and the number of shares with respect to which Stock Awards shall be granted to each such person.
 
(2) To construe and interpret the Plan and Stock Awards granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for its administration. The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan or in any Stock Award, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
 
(3) To amend the Plan as provided in Article II, Section 14.
 
(4) Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company.
 
(c) The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a committee composed of not fewer than two (2) members of the Board (the "Committee"). One or more of these members may be non-employee directors and outside directors, if required and as defined by the provisions of Article II, paragraphs 2(e) and 2(f). If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board (except amendment of any program adopted pursuant to Article II, Section 6 or any Non-Discretionary Director Awards granted thereunder shall only be by action taken by the Board or a committee of one or more members of the Board to which such authority has been specifically delegated by the Board), subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of Article II of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board. Notwithstanding anything else in this Article II, paragraph 2(c) to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board the authority to grant or amend Stock Awards to all employees, directors or consultants or any portion or class thereof.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything else in the Plan to the contrary, at any time the Board or the Committee may authorize by duly adopted resolution one or more Officers (as defined below) (each a "Delegated Officer") to take the actions described in Article II, paragraph 2(b)(1) of the Plan with respect to Options only, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of Article II of the Plan; , , that a Delegated Officer shall not have the power to (1) grant any Options to himself, any non-employee director, consultant, Trust, other Delegated Officer or Officer, (2) determine the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase stock pursuant to the exercise of an Option (i.e., vesting), (3) determine the exercise price of an Option, or (4) grant any Option to a parent corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code. The resolution authorizing a Delegated Officer to act as such shall specify the total number of shares of Common Stock that a Delegated Officer may grant with respect to Options. The exercise price (including any formula by which such price or prices may be determined) and the time or times when a person shall be permitted to purchase stock pursuant to the exercise of an Option shall, however, be set by the Board or the Committee and not by a Delegated Officer to the extent required by Delaware General Corporation Law Section 157 or any other applicable law. The term "Officer" shall include any natural person who is elected as a corporate officer of the Company by the Board.
provided
however
 
(e) The term "non-employee director" shall mean a member of the Board who (i) is not currently an officer of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company (as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) or an employee of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company; (ii) does not receive compensation from the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company for services rendered in any capacity other than as a member of the Board (including a consultant) in an amount required to be disclosed to the Company's stockholders under Rule 404 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Rule 404"); (iii) does not possess an interest in any other transaction required to be disclosed under Rule 404; or (iv) is not engaged in a business relationship required to be disclosed under Rule 404, as all of these provisions are interpreted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
(f) The term "outside director," as used in Article II of this Plan, shall mean an administrator of the Plan, whether a member of the Board or of any Committee to which responsibility for administration of the Plan has been delegated pursuant to Article II, paragraph 2(c), who is considered to be an "outside director" in accordance with the rules, regulations or interpretations of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(g) Any requirement that an administrator of the Plan be a "non-employee director" or "outside director" shall not apply if the Board or the Committee expressly declares that such requirement shall not apply.
 
SECTION 3.
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 11 relating to adjustments upon changes in stock, the stock that may be issued pursuant to Stock Awards granted under the Plan shall not exceed in the aggregate 19,273,852 shares of the Company's $.0001 par value common stock (the "Common Stock"). If any Stock Award granted under the Plan shall for any reason expire or otherwise terminate without having been exercised in full, the Common Stock not purchased under such Stock Award shall again become available for the Plan. Shares repurchased by the Company pursuant to any repurchase rights reserved by the Company pursuant to the Plan shall not be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.
 
(b) The Common Stock subject to the Plan may be unissued shares or reacquired shares, bought on the market or otherwise.
 
(c) An Incentive Stock Option may be granted to an eligible person under the Plan only if the aggregate fair market value (determined at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which incentive stock options (as defined by the Code) are exercisable for the first time by such optionee during any calendar year under all such plans of the Company and its Affiliates does not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). If it is determined that an entire Option or any portion thereof does not qualify for treatment as an Incentive Stock Option by reason of exceeding such maximum, such Option or the applicable portion shall be considered a Nonqualified Stock Option.
 
SECTION 4. .
ELIGIBILITY
 
(a) Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees (including officers) of the Company or its Affiliates. A director of the Company shall not be eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options unless such director is also an employee of the Company or any Affiliate. Stock Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted to employees (including officers) or directors of or consultants to the Company or any Affiliate or to Trusts of any such employee, director or consultant.
 
(b) A director shall in no event be eligible for the benefits of the Plan (other than Non-Discretionary Director Awards, as defined in Article II, Section 6) unless and until such director is expressly declared eligible to participate in the Plan by action of the Board or the Committee, and only if, at any time discretion is exercised by the Board or the Committee in the selection of a director as a person to whom Stock Awards may be granted, or in the determination of the number of shares which may be covered by Stock Awards granted to a director, the Plan complies with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect. The Board shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, as from time to time in effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the restrictions set forth in this Article II, paragraph 4(b) shall not apply if the Board or Committee expressly declares that such restrictions shall not apply.
 
(c) No person shall be eligible for the grant of an Incentive Stock Option under the Plan if, at the time of grant, such person owns (or is deemed to own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any of its Affiliates unless the exercise price of
 
such Incentive Stock Option is at least one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the date of grant and the Incentive Stock Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant.
 
(d) Stock Awards shall be limited to a maximum of 649,455 shares of Common Stock per person per calendar year.
 
SECTION 5.
TERMS OF DISCRETIONARY STOCK OPTIONS.
 
An option granted pursuant to this Article II, Section 5 (a "Discretionary Stock Option") shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
(a) No Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
 
(b) The exercise price of each Incentive Stock Option and each Nonqualified Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.
 
(c) The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either: (i) in cash at the time the Option is exercised; or (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, either at the time of grant or exercise of the Option (A) by delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock that have been held for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and valued at the fair market value on the date of exercise, (B) according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Option is granted or to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Article II, paragraph 5(d), or (C) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued.
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be payable at least annually and shall be charged at not less than the minimum rate of interest necessary to avoid the treatment as interest, under any applicable provisions of the Code, of any amounts other than amounts stated to be interest under the deferred payment arrangement.
 
(d) An Option granted to a natural person shall be exercisable during the lifetime of such person only by such person, provided that such person during such person's lifetime may designate a Trust to be such person's beneficiary with respect to any Incentive Stock Options and with respect to any Nonqualified Stock Options, and such beneficiary shall, after the death of the person to whom the Option was granted, have all the rights that such person has while living, including the right to exercise the Option. In the absence of such designation, after the death of the person to whom the Option is granted, the Option shall be exercisable by the person or persons to whom the optionee's rights under such Option pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
(e) The total number of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option may, but need not, be allotted in periodic installments (which may, but need not, be equal). From time to time during each of such installment periods, the Option may become exercisable ("vest") with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to that period, and may be exercised with respect to some or all of the shares allotted to such period and/or any prior period as to which the Option was not fully exercised. During the remainder of the term of the Option (if its term extends beyond the end of the installment periods), the Option may be exercised from time to time with respect to any shares then remaining subject to the Option. The provisions of this Article II, paragraph 5(e) are subject to any Option provisions governing the minimum number of shares as to which an Option may be exercised.
 
(f) The Company may require any optionee, or any person to whom an Option is transferred under Article II, paragraph 5(d), as a condition of exercising any such Option: (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to such person's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative who has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters, and that such person is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Option; and (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that such person is acquiring the Common Stock subject to the Option for such person's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Common
 
Stock. These requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall be inoperative if: (x) the issuance of the shares upon the exercise of the Option has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"); or (y) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities law.
 
(g) An Option shall terminate three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate, unless the Option by its term specifies either (i) that it shall terminate sooner than three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate; or (ii) that it may be exercised more than three (3) months after termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or an Affiliate. This Article II, paragraph 5(g) shall not be construed to extend the term of any Option or to permit anyone to exercise the Option after expiration of its term, nor shall it be construed to increase the number of shares as to which any Option is exercisable from the amount exercisable on the date of termination of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director.
 
(h) The Option may, but need not, include a provision whereby the optionee may elect at any time during the term of the optionee's employment or relationship as a consultant or director with the Company or any Affiliate to exercise the Option as to any part or all of the shares subject to the Option prior to the stated vesting dates of the Option. Any shares so purchased from any unvested installment or Option may be subject to a repurchase right in favor of the Company or to any other restriction the Board or the Committee determines to be appropriate.
 
(i) To the extent provided by the terms of an Option, each optionee may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the exercise of such Option by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise issuable to the optionee as a result of the exercise of the Option a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the Common Stock having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
SECTION 6. .
NON-DISCRETIONARY DIRECTOR AWARDS
 
The Board may from time to time adopt award programs under the Plan providing for the grant of formula or non-discretionary Stock Awards to directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any Affiliate ("Non-Discretionary Director Awards"). The terms and conditions of any such program shall be established by the Board in its sole discretion, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
SECTION 7. .
TERMS OF STOCK BONUSES AND PURCHASES OF RESTRICTED STOCK
 
Each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate agreements need not be identical, but each stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as appropriate:
 
(a) The purchase price under each stock purchase agreement shall be such amount as the Board or Committee shall determine and designate in such agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee may determine that eligible participants in the Plan may be awarded stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(b) No rights under a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement shall be assignable by any participant under the Plan, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except where such assignment is required by law or expressly authorized by the terms of the applicable stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement.
 
(c) The purchase price of stock acquired pursuant to a stock purchase agreement shall be paid either: (i) in cash at the time of purchase; (ii) at the discretion of the Board or the Committee, according to a deferred payment or other arrangement with the person to whom the Common Stock is sold; or (iii) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion; including but not limited to payment of the
 
purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price of the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Committee to which administration of the Plan has been delegated may award Common Stock pursuant to a stock bonus agreement in consideration for past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit.
 
(d) Shares of Common Stock sold or awarded under the Plan may, but need not, be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board or the Committee.
 
(e) In the event a person ceases to be an employee of or ceases to serve as a director or consultant to the Company or an Affiliate, the Company may repurchase or otherwise reacquire any or all of the shares of Common Stock held by that person which have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement between the Company and such person.
 
(f) To the extent provided by the terms of a stock bonus or restricted stock purchase agreement, a participant may satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the lapsing of a repurchase option in favor of the Company or vesting of a stock bonus or a restricted stock award by any of the following means or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise deliverable to a participant as a result of the lapsing of a repurchase option in favor of the Company or the vesting of a stock bonus or a restricted stock award a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered shares of the Common Stock having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding.
 
SECTION 8. .
COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY
 
(a) During the terms of the Stock Awards granted under the Plan, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of shares of Common Stock required to satisfy such Stock Awards up to the number of shares of Common Stock authorized under the Plan.
 
(b) The Company shall seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to issue and sell shares of Common Stock under the Stock Awards granted under the Plan; , , that this undertaking shall not require the Company to register under the Securities Act either the Plan, any Stock Award granted under the Plan or any Common Stock issued or issuable pursuant to any such Stock Award. If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority that counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of Common Stock under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell Common Stock upon exercise of such Stock Awards unless and until such authority is obtained.
provided
however
 
SECTION 9. .
USE OF PROCEEDS FROM COMMON STOCK
 
Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to Stock Awards granted under the Plan shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
SECTION 10. .
MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a) The Board or Committee shall have the power to accelerate the time during which a Stock Award may be exercised or the time during which a Stock Award or any part thereof will vest, notwithstanding the provisions in the Stock Award stating the time during which it may be exercised or the time during which it will vest. Each Discretionary Stock Option providing for vesting pursuant to Article II, paragraph 5(e) may also provide that if the employee's employment or a director's or consultant's affiliation with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is terminated by reason of death or disability, then the vesting schedule of Discretionary Stock Options granted to such employee, director or consultant or to the Trusts of such employee, director or consultant may be accelerated.
 
(b) Neither an optionee nor any person to whom an Option is transferred under the provisions of the Plan shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares subject to such Option unless and until such person has satisfied all requirements for exercise of the Option pursuant to its terms.
 
(c) Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Stock Award granted pursuant thereto shall confer upon any eligible employee, consultant, director, optionee or holder of Stock Awards under the Plan any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any
 
Affiliate or to continue acting as a consultant or director or shall affect the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment or consulting relationship or directorship of any eligible employee, consultant, director, optionee or holder of Stock Awards under the Plan with or without cause. In the event that a holder of Stock Awards under the Plan is permitted or otherwise entitled to take a leave of absence, the Company shall have the unilateral right to (i) determine whether such leave of absence will be treated as a termination of employment or relationship as consultant or director for purposes hereof, and (ii) suspend or otherwise delay the time or times at which exercisability or vesting would otherwise occur with respect to any outstanding Stock Awards under the Plan.
 
SECTION 11. .
ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN COMMON STOCK
 
If any change is made in the Common Stock subject to the Plan, or subject to any Stock Award granted under the Plan (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, dividend in property other than cash, stock split, liquidating dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the Plan and outstanding Stock Awards will be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and maximum number of shares subject to the Plan, the maximum number of shares which may be granted to a participant in a calendar year, the class(es) and number of shares and price per share of stock subject to outstanding Stock Awards, and the number of shares of Common Stock to be granted as Non-Discretionary Director Awards, if any. Such adjustment shall be made by the Board or the Committee, the determination of which shall be final, binding and conclusive. (The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as a "transaction not involving the receipt of consideration".)
 
SECTION 12. .
CHANGE OF CONTROL
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, in the event of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined), then, to the extent permitted by applicable law: (i) the time during which Stock Awards become vested shall automatically be accelerated so that the unvested portions of all Stock Awards shall be vested prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the time during which the Options may be exercised shall automatically be accelerated to prior to the Change in Control. Upon and following the acceleration of the vesting and exercise periods, at the election of the holder of the Stock Award, the Stock Award may be: (x) exercised (with respect to Options) or, if the surviving or acquiring corporation agrees to
 
assume the Stock Awards or substitute similar stock awards, (y) assumed; or (z) replaced with substitute stock awards. Options not exercised, substituted or assumed prior to or upon the Change in Control shall be terminated.
 
(b) For purposes of Article II of the Plan, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at any of the following times:
 
(i) upon the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or its affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or its affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
 
(ii) at the time individuals who, as of July 15, 2002, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to July 15, 2002, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of Article II of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
 
(iii) immediately prior to the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
 
(iv) the occurrence of any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole discretion determines constitutes a Change of Control.
 
SECTION 13.
QUALIFIED DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDERS
 
(a) Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, rights under Stock Awards may be assigned to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides. (The terms "Alternate Payee" and "QDRO" are defined in Article II, paragraph 13(c) below.) The assignment of a Stock Award to an Alternate Payee pursuant to a QDRO shall not be treated as having caused a new grant. The transfer of an Incentive Stock Option to an Alternate Payee may, however, cause it to fail to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. If a Stock Award is assigned to an Alternate Payee, the Alternate Payee generally has the same rights as the grantee under the terms of the Plan; provided however, that (i) the Stock Award shall be subject to the same vesting terms and exercise period as if the Stock Award were still held by the grantee and (ii) an Alternate Payee may not transfer a Stock Award.
 
(b) In the event of the Plan administrator's receipt of a domestic relations order or other notice of adverse claim by an Alternate Payee of a grantee of a Stock Award, transfer of the proceeds of the exercise of such Stock Award, whether in the form of cash, stock or other property, may be suspended. Such proceeds shall thereafter be transferred pursuant to the terms of a QDRO or other agreement between the grantee and Alternate Payee. A grantee's ability to exercise a Stock Award may be barred if the Plan administrator receives a court order directing the Plan administrator not to permit exercise.
 
(c) The word "QDRO" as used in Article II of the Plan shall mean a court order (i) that creates or recognizes the right of the spouse, former spouse or child (an "Alternate Payee") of an individual who is granted a Stock Award to an interest in such Stock Award relating to marital property rights or support obligations and (ii) that the administrator of the Plan determines would be a "qualified domestic relations order," as that term is defined in section 414(p) of the Code and section 206(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), but for the fact that the Plan is not a plan described in section 3(3) of ERISA.
 
SECTION 14. .
AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN
 
(a) The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the Plan. However, except as provided in Article II, Section 11 relating to adjustments upon changes in the
 
Common Stock, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the adoption of the amendment, where the amendment will:
 
(i) increase the number of shares reserved for Stock Awards under the Plan;
 
(ii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan (to the extent such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 422(b) of the Code); or
 
(iii) modify the Plan in any other way if such modification requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 422(b) of the Code.
 
(b) The Board may in its sole discretion submit any other amendment to the Plan for stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, amendments to the Plan intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder regarding the exclusion of performance-based compensation from the limit on corporate deductibility of compensation to certain executive officers.
 
(c) It is expressly contemplated that the Board may amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable to provide optionees with the maximum benefits provided or to be provided under the provisions of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder relating to employee Incentive Stock Options and/or to bring the Plan and/or Options granted under it into compliance therewith.
 
(d) Rights and obligations under any Stock Award granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be impaired by any amendment of the Plan, unless: (i) the Company requests the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted; and (ii) such person consents in writing.
 
SECTION 15. .
TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE PLAN
 
(a) The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. No Stock Awards may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated. No Incentive Stock Options may be granted under the Plan after February 22, 2009.
 
(b) Rights and obligations under any Stock Awards granted while the Plan is in effect shall not be impaired by suspension or termination of the Plan, except with the consent of the person to whom the Stock Award was granted.
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this document is to set forth the general terms and conditions applicable to the Performance Award Program (the "") established by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Amgen Inc. (the "") pursuant to, and in implementation of, Section 10(d) of the Company's Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the ""). The Program is intended to carry out the purposes of the 1991 Plan and provide a means to reinforce objectives for sustained long-term performance and value creation by awarding selected key employees of the Company with payments in Company stock based on the level of achievement of pre-established performance goals during three-year performance cycles, subject to the restrictions and other provisions of the Program and the 1991 Plan. The Program shall be effective as of December 9, 2003.
Program
Company
1991 Plan
 
 
 
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the same definitions as such terms are defined in the 1991 Plan.
 
"" shall mean the earned Performance Units payable in Common Stock under the Program for a Performance Cycle.
Award
 
"" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" shall mean the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board, appointed by the Board from among its members to administer the 1991 Plan in accordance with Section 2 thereof.
Committee
 
"" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 4.1.
Determination Date
 
"" shall mean a key employee of the Company or an Affiliate who participates in this Program pursuant to the provisions of Article III hereof.
Participant
 
"" shall mean a list of companies selected by the Committee.
Peer Group
 
"" shall mean each period of three consecutive fiscal years commencing on the first day of the first fiscal year and ending on the last day of the third fiscal year. Performance Cycles may overlap.
Performance Cycle
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 5.2.
Performance Goal
 
"" shall mean a right granted to a Participant pursuant to the Program to receive Common Stock, the payment of which is contingent upon achieving the Performance Goals.
Performance Unit
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of a Participant's employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
Permanent and Total Disability
 
"" shall mean a court order (i) that creates or recognizes the right of the spouse, former spouse or child (an "") of an individual who is granted an Award to an interest in such Award relating to marital property rights or support obligations and (ii) that the 1991 Plan administrator determines would be a "qualified domestic relations order," as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Code and Section 206(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (""), but for the fact that the 1991 Plan is not a plan described in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
QDRO
Alternate Payee
ERISA
 
"" shall mean when a Participant is at least sixty (60) years of age and has been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years.
Retirement-Eligible
 
"" shall mean any Participant designated by the Committee as a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code whose compensation for the fiscal year in which the Participant is so designated or a future fiscal year may be subject to the limit on deductible compensation imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Participant
 
"" shall mean voluntary termination of employment that is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability.
Voluntary Retirement
 
 
 
3.1 . Participants for any Performance Cycle shall be those active key employees of the Company or an Affiliate who are designated in writing as eligible for participation by the Committee within the first ninety (90) days of such Performance Cycle.
Participants
 
3.2 . No Participant or other employee of the Company or an Affiliate shall, at any time, have a right to participate in this Program for any Performance Cycle, notwithstanding having previously participated in this Program.
No Right to Participate
 
 
 
4.1 . Within the first ninety (90) days of each Performance Cycle, the Committee shall establish the basis for payments under this Program in relation to specified Performance Goals, as more fully described in Article V hereof. Following the end of each Performance Cycle, once all of the information necessary for the Committee to determine the Company's performance and comparative performance with the Peer Group is made available to the Committee, the Committee shall determine the amount of the Award payable to each Participant; , that any such determination shall be made no later than six months following the end of such Performance Cycle (the date of such determination shall hereinafter be called the ""). The Committee shall have the power and authority granted it under Section 2 of the 1991 Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to construe and interpret this Program, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules, regulations and procedures relating to its administration and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for administration of this Program. Decisions of the Committee in accordance with the authority granted hereby shall be conclusive and binding. Subject only to compliance with the express provisions hereof, the Committee may act in its sole and absolute discretion with respect to matters within its authority under this Program.
Generally
provided, however
Determination Date
 
4.2 . Any Awards paid hereunder to a Section 162(m) Participant shall satisfy and shall be interpreted in a manner that satisfies any applicable requirements as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and any provisions, application or interpretation of the Program or the 1991 Plan that is inconsistent with this intent shall be disregarded.
Provisions Applicable to Section 162(m) Participants
 
4.3 . Notwithstanding any provision of the Program to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company and its Affiliates operate or have employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
Provisions Applicable to Participants in Foreign Jurisdictions
 
(i) modify the terms and conditions of any award of Performance Units granted to employees outside the United States to comply with applicable foreign laws;
 
(ii) condition the effectiveness of any award of Performance Units upon approval or compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption or approvals;
 
(iii) provide for payment of any Award in cash or Common Stock, at the Company's election, to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws; and
 
(iv) take any other action, before or after an award of Performance Units is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no award of Performance Units shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation.
 
 
 
5.1 . Within the first ninety (90) days of each Performance Cycle, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Units (rounded down to the nearest whole number) to be awarded under this Program to each Participant with respect to such Performance Cycle and a date upon which the Performance Units shall be assigned a unit value based on the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on such specified date. Performance Units granted under the Program shall constitute stock bonuses under Sections 7 and 10(d) of the 1991 Plan.
Award of Performance Units
 
5.2 . Within the first ninety (90) days of each Performance Cycle, the Committee shall approve the performance goals (collectively, the "") with respect to any of the business criteria permitted under Section 10(d) of the 1991 Plan), each subject to such adjustments as the Committee may specify in writing at such time, and shall establish a formula, standard or schedule which aligns the level of achievement of the Performance Goals with the earned Performance Units. The Performance Goals may not be changed during the Performance Cycle, but the thresholds and targets of the Performance Goals shall be subject to such adjustments as the Committee may specify in writing within the first ninety (90) days of the Performance Cycle.
Performance Requirements
Performance Goals
 
 
 
6.1 . Except as set forth in Section 8.1 below, any Award payable pursuant to this Program shall be paid as soon as practicable following the Determination Date in shares of Common Stock based on the average of the daily closing prices of a share of Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market for the thirty (30) trading days ending seven trading days immediately preceding the Determination Date; that no Award shall be paid unless and until the Committee certifies, in writing, the extent to which the Performance Goals have been achieved and the corresponding number of Performance Units earned. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of an Award shall be deemed to be issued in consideration for future services to be rendered or past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit, by the Participant, which the Committee deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment
provided, however,
 
6.2 . The Participant shall satisfy any federal, state and local tax withholding obligation relating to the payment of the Award by authorizing the Company to withhold from the shares of the Common Stock otherwise issuable to the Participant as a result of the vesting or the payment of the Award a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the amount of the Company's required minimum statutory withholding for federal, state and local tax purposes, including any payroll taxes resulting from the vesting of the Performance Units. Any shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the 1991 Plan. In addition, the Participant shall take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section 6.2.Notwithstanding Section 6.1, no certificates representing the shares of Common Stock shall be delivered to a Participant unless and until he or she shall have paid to the Company the full amount of all federal, state and local tax withholding or other employment taxes applicable to him or her resulting from the payment of the Award.
Tax Withholding
 
 
 
7.1
Termination of Employment During Performance Cycle.
 
(a) In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated within six months following the commencement of a Performance Cycle for any reason, all of such Participant's rights to an Award for such Performance Cycle shall be forfeited.
 
(b) Subject to Section 7.1(a) above, in the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated prior to the last business day of a Performance Cycle by reason of such Participant's Voluntary Retirement and such Participant is Retirement-Eligible on the date of such termination, the prorated amount of such Participant's Award, if any, applicable to such Performance Cycle shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above. For purposes of the foregoing, the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) shall be determined based on the Company's performance as compared to the Performance Goals for such Performance Cycle and the Award otherwise payable is multiplied by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of employment during the Performance Cycle, and the denominator of which is 36; provided however, that prior to termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate, such Participant signs a general release in a form provided by the Company.
 
(c) Subject to Section 7.1(a) above, in the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated prior to the last business day of a Performance Cycle by reason of such Participant's death or Permanent and Total Disability, the prorated amount of such Participant's Award, if any, applicable to such Performance Cycle shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above. For purposes of the foregoing, the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) shall be
 
determined based on the Company's performance as compared to the Performance Goals for such Performance Cycle and the Award otherwise payable is multiplied by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of employment during the Performance Cycle, and the denominator of which is 36. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall not be entitled to such prorated amount of such Participant's Award unless prior to a Participant's termination of employment due to such Participant's Permanent and Total Disability, such Participant signs a general release in a form provided by the Company.
 
(d) In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated prior to the last business day of a Performance Cycle for any reason other than as specified in Sections 7.1(a), (b) and (c) above, all of such Participant's rights to an Award for such Performance Cycle shall be forfeited, unless the Committee approves, based upon the recommendation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer which are based on valid business reasons, the payment of a prorated amount of the Participant's Award, if any, applicable to such Performance Cycle shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above. For purposes of the foregoing, the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) shall be determined based on the Company's performance as compared to the Performance Goals for such Performance Cycle and the Award otherwise payable is multiplied by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of employment during the Performance Cycle, and the denominator of which is 36; provided however, that prior to termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate, such Participant signs a general release in a form provided by the Company.
 
7.2 . In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated after the end of the applicable Performance Cycle but prior to the Determination Date for any reason, the amount of any Award applicable to such Performance Cycle shall be paid to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above.
Termination of Employment After End of Performance Cycle
 
 
 
8.1
Change in Control During Performance Cycle.
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, in the event of a Change in Control that occurs during the first fiscal year of a Performance Cycle, such Performance Cycle shall be shortened and shall terminate as of the last business day of the last completed fiscal quarter preceding the date of such Change in Control and each Participant employed by the Company immediately prior to such Change in Control shall be entitled to a payment equal to the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) he or she would have received for such Performance Cycle assuming that the targets of the Performance Goals are satisfied. Any such payment shall be made as soon as practicable following such Change in Control and, in the Committee's sole discretion, may be paid in cash.
 
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, in the event of a Change in Control that occurs during the second or third fiscal year of a Performance Cycle,
 
such Performance Cycle shall be shortened and shall terminate as of the last business day of the last completed fiscal quarter preceding the date of such Change in Control and each Participant employed by the Company immediately prior to such Change in Control shall be entitled to a payment equal to the greater of (i) the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) he or she would have received for such Performance Cycle assuming that the targets of the Performance Goals are satisfied, or (ii) the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) he or she would have been entitled to receive for such Performance Cycle, determined based on the Company's performance and comparative performance for such shortened Performance Cycle. Any such payment shall be made as soon as practicable following such Change in Control and, in the Committee's sole discretion, may be paid in cash.
 
8.2 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, in the event of a Change in Control that occurs after the end of the applicable Performance Cycle but prior to the Determination Date, the amount of any Award applicable to such Performance Cycle shall be paid to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above.
Change in Control After End of Performance Cycle
 
 
 
9.1 . The Program is subject to all the provisions of the 1991 Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of the Program, including without limitation the provisions of Sections 7 and 10(d) thereof (relating to stock bonuses) and Section 11 thereof (relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock), and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the 1991 Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and those of the 1991 Plan, the provisions of the 1991 Plan shall control. Notwithstanding any provision of the Program to the contrary, any earned Performance Units paid in cash rather than shares of Common Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the 1991 Plan.
Plan
 
9.2 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Committee may, at any time, terminate, modify or suspend this Program; , that, without the prior consent of the Participants affected, no such action may adversely affect any rights or obligations with respect to any Awards theretofore earned but unpaid for a completed Performance Cycle, whether or not the amounts of such Awards have been computed and whether or not such Awards are then payable. Notwithstanding the forgoing, at any time the Committee determines that the Performance Units may be subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and without a Participant's prior consent to amend the Program as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the Performance Units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the Performance Units, provided that no such amendment may change the Program's "performance goals," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, with respect to any person who is a "covered employee," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Amendment and Termination
provided, however
 
9.3 . Nothing contained in this Program or in any document related to this Program or to any Award shall confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee or in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate or constitute any contract or agreement of employment for a specific term or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or an Affiliate to reduce such person's compensation, to change the position held by such person or to terminate the employment of such person, with or without cause.
No Contract for Employment
 
9.4 . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Program shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of any Participant or beneficiary; , that, nothing in this Section 9.4 shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution or (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides. The assignment of an Award to an Alternate Payee pursuant to a QDRO shall not be treated as having caused a new grant. If an Award is assigned to an Alternate Payee, the Alternate Payee generally has the same rights as the Participant under the terms of the Program; , that (i) the Award shall be subject to the same vesting terms as if the Award were still held by the Participant, and (ii) an Alternate Payee may not transfer an Award. In the event of the 1991 Plan administrator's receipt of a domestic relations order or other notice of adverse claim by an Alternate Payee of a Participant, transfer of the proceeds of such Award may be suspended. Such proceeds shall thereafter be transferred pursuant to the terms of a QDRO or other agreement between the Participant and Alternate Payee. A Participant's ability to receive payment of an Award may be barred if the 1991 Plan administrator receives a court order directing the 1991 Plan administrator not to make such payment.
Nontransferability
provided, however
provided however
 
9.5 . No Participant, beneficiary or other person shall have any right, title or interest in any fund or in any specific asset of the Company or any Affiliate by reason of any award hereunder. There shall be no funding of any benefits which may become payable hereunder. Nothing contained in this Program (or in any document related thereto), nor the creation or adoption of this Program, nor any action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Program shall create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary or other person. To the extent that a Participant, beneficiary or other person acquires a right to receive payment with respect to an Award hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or other employing entity, as applicable. All amounts payable under this Program shall be paid from the general assets of the Company or employing entity, as applicable, and no special or separate fund or deposit shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts. Nothing in this Program shall be deemed to give any employee any right to participate in this Program except in accordance herewith.
Nature of Program
 
9.6 . This Program shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law thereof.
Governing Law
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), which is incorporated herein by reference, has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") pursuant to the terms hereof this option. This option is intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
        
                            
Grant Date
Company
Plan
(Number of Shares)
Code
 
The provisions of your option are as follows:
 
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of this option, on each anniversary of the Grant Date (each, a "") the Ratable Amount (as defined below) of this option shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date. This option may only be exercised for whole shares of Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional shares of Common Stock to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the vesting schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this option. In addition, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. For purposes of this option, the "Ratable Amount" shall mean a whole number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock covered by this option divided by four (4) to which fractional shares of Common Stock resulting from this calculation shall be combined into whole shares of Common Stock and added to the forgoing calculation to vest on the Vesting Date indicated:
Vesting Date
 
 
 
 
II.     (1) The per share exercise price of this option is , being not less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this option.
$(Grant Price)
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check or (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
 
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
IV. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary of the date of this option (the ""). This option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason unless:
Expiration Date
 
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or twelve (12) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding such termination of your employment with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after your death and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest as of the day preceding your death with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been
 
employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, options that are scheduled to vest December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in paragraph III above, in which event this option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
 
(4) exercise of this option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), in which case this option will terminate on the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; or (ii) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or
Exchange Act
 
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below) after you are at least sixty (60) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years (""), in which case this option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of this option will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding your Voluntary Termination with respect to all options awarded hereunder.
Voluntary Termination
 
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in paragraphs IV(1) or IV(2) above, respectively, or as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in paragraph IV(5) above, this option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of paragraph I of this option. For purposes of this option, (i) "" shall mean the last date you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
 
V.     (1) To the extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to subparagraph 5(f) of the Plan.
 
(2) As a condition to the issuance of shares upon the exercise of this option, the Company may require you to: (i) enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of: (a) the exercise of this option; (b) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture of which the shares are subject at the time of exercise; or (c) the disposition of shares acquired upon such exercise; and (ii) agree to notify the Company in writing within fifteen (15) days after the date of any disposition of any of the shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise of this option that occurs within two (2) years after the date of this option grant or within one (1) year after such shares of Common Stock are transferred upon exercise of this option.
 
VI. This option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except as set forth below:
 
(1) If you have named a Trust (as defined in the Plan) as beneficiary of this option, this option may be exercised by the Trust after your death; and
 
(2) All or a portion of this option may be transferred to an Alternate Payee (as defined in the Plan) if required by the terms of a QDRO (as defined in the Plan), as further described in Section 13 of the Plan.
 
VII. This option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
 
VIII. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
 
IX. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
X. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
XI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon exercise of this option shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
 
XII. By electing to accept this option, you acknowledge receipt of this option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to options awarded under the Plan or future option that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), which is incorporated herein by reference, has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") pursuant to the terms hereof this option. This option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
        
                            
Grant Date
Company
Plan
(Number of Shares)
Code
 
The provisions of your option are as follows:
 
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of this option, on each anniversary of the Grant Date (each, a "") the Ratable Amount (as defined below) of this option shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date. This option may only be exercised for whole shares of Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional shares of Common Stock to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the vesting schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this option. In addition, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. For purposes of this option, the "Ratable Amount" shall mean a whole number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock covered by this option divided by four (4) to which fractional shares of Common Stock resulting from this calculation shall be combined into whole shares of Common Stock and added to the forgoing calculation to vest on the Vesting Date indicated:
Vesting Date
 
 
 
II.     (1) The per share exercise price of this option is , being not less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this option.
$(Grant Price)
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check or (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
 
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
IV. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary of the date of this option (the ""). This option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason unless:
Expiration Date
 
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or twelve (12) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding such termination of your employment with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after your death and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest as of the day preceding your death with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been
 
employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, options that are scheduled to vest December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in paragraph III above, in which event this option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
 
(4) exercise of this option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), in which case this option will terminate on the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; or (ii) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or
Exchange Act
 
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below) after you are at least sixty (60) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years (""), in which case this option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of this option will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding your Voluntary Termination with respect to all options awarded hereunder.
Voluntary Termination
 
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in paragraphs IV(1) or IV(2) above, respectively, or as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in paragraph IV(5) above, this option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of paragraph I of this option. For purposes of this option, (i) "" shall mean the last date you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
 
V.     (1) To the extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to subparagraph 5(f) of the Plan.
 
(2) As a condition to the issuance of shares upon the exercise of this option, the Company may require you to enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of: (a) the exercise of this option; (b) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture of which the shares are subject at the time of exercise; or (c) the disposition of shares acquired upon such exercise.
 
VI. This option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except as set forth below:
 
(1) If you have named a Trust (as defined in the Plan) as beneficiary of this option, this option may be exercised by the Trust after your death; and
 
(2) All or a portion of this option may be transferred to an Alternate Payee (as defined in the Plan) if required by the terms of a QDRO (as defined in the Plan), as further described in Section 13 of the Plan.
 
VII. This option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
 
VIII. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
 
IX. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
X. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
XI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon exercise of this option shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
 
XII. By electing to accept this option, you acknowledge receipt of this option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to options awarded under the Plan or future option that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
 
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named above, under the Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the ""), restricted stock units (the "") with respect to shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this "") and the Plan. The Units shall constitute stock bonuses under Sections 7 and 10(d) of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
        
                            
Grant Date
Company
Plan
                            
Units
                            
Agreement
 
I. .
Vesting Schedule and Termination of Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this agreement, (i) "" shall mean the last date that you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director of the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case. Units that remain unvested as of the date of termination of your employment shall expire and terminate on the date of termination of your employment.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
Code
 
II. . Subject to satisfaction of tax or similar obligations as provided for in Section III, any vested Units shall be paid by the Company in shares of Common Stock (on a one-to-one basis) on, or as soon as practicable after, the applicable Vesting Date (which, for purposes of this Section II, includes the date of any accelerated vesting under Sections I(b), (c) or (d) above), but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is 2  months from the end of (i) your tax year that includes the Vesting Date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable Vesting Date. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or for future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment
 
III. . All payments made pursuant to Section II above shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes, based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal, state and local tax purposes, including any employment taxes resulting from the vesting of the Units (the ""). You hereby agree that you will satisfy the Tax Obligations resulting from the vesting of the Units by authorizing, and you hereby authorize, the Company to withhold from the shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable to you as a result of the vesting of the Units in accordance herewith, a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the Tax Obligations. Any shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder. The number of shares of Common Stock tendered by you pursuant to this Section III shall be determined by the Company and be valued at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Tax Obligations arise. To the extent that the number of shares tendered by you pursuant to this Section III is insufficient to satisfy the Tax Obligations, you hereby authorize the Company to deduct from your compensation the additional amount necessary to fully satisfy the Tax Obligations. If the Company chooses not to deduct such amount from your compensation, you agree to pay the Company, in cash or by check, the additional amount necessary to fully satisfy the Tax Obligations. You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section III. Notwithstanding Section II above, no certificates representing the shares of Common Stock shall be delivered to you unless and until you have satisfied your obligations with respect to the full amount of all federal, state and local tax withholding or other employment taxes applicable to you resulting from the payment of the Units earned.
Tax Withholding; Issuance of Certificates
Tax Obligations
 
IV. . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the shares of Common Stock that are scheduled to be issued to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary's debts, contracts, liabilities or torts; , nothing in this Section IV shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution or (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides, as further described in Section 13 of the Plan.
Transferability
provided, however
 
IV. . This Agreement is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company or an Affiliate, or of the Company or an Affiliate to continue your employment or service with the Company or an Affiliate.
No Contract for Employment
 
V. . Any notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company's records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
Notices
 
VI. . This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, which provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of Section 7 of the Plan relating to stock bonuses, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
Plan
 
VII. . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the parties shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
VIII. . Neither the Plan nor this Agreement is intended to provide for an elective deferral of compensation that would be subject to Section 409A of the Code (""). The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Agreement to ensure that no Awards (including without limitation, the Units) become subject to the requirements of Section 409A.
No Compensation Deferral
Section 409A
 
IX. . By electing to accept this Agreement, you acknowledge receipt of this Agreement and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this Agreement constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Agreement, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Agreement. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Units awarded under the Plan or future Units that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Acknowledgement
 
X. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, and no award of Units shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon vesting of the Unit shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such vesting and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Compliance with Laws
Act
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), which is incorporated herein by reference, has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") pursuant to the terms hereof this option. This option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
    
                    
Grant Date
Company
Plan
(Number of Shares)
Code
 
The provisions of your option are as follows:
 
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of this option, on each anniversary of the Grant Date (each, a "") the Ratable Amount (as defined below) of this option shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date. This option may only be exercised for whole shares of Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional shares of Common Stock to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the vesting schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this option. In addition, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. For purposes of this option, the "Ratable Amount" shall mean a whole number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock covered by this option divided by four (4) to which fractional shares of Common Stock resulting from this calculation shall be combined into whole shares of Common Stock and added to the forgoing calculation to vest on the Vesting Date indicated:
Vesting Date
 
 
 
II.     (1) The per share exercise price of this option is , being not less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this option.
$(Grant Price)
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check or (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
 
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
IV. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary of the date of this option (the ""). This option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason unless:
Expiration Date
 
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or twelve (12) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding such termination of your employment with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after your death and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest as of the day preceding your death with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been
 
employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, options that are scheduled to vest December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in paragraph III above, in which event this option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
 
(4) exercise of this option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), in which case this option will terminate on the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; or (ii) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or
Exchange Act
 
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below) after you are at least sixty (60) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years (""), in which case this option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of this option will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding your Voluntary Termination with respect to all options awarded hereunder.
Voluntary Termination
 
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in paragraphs IV(1) or IV(2) above, respectively, or as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in paragraph IV(5) above, this option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of paragraph I of this option. For purposes of this option, (i) "" shall mean the last date you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
 
V.     (1) To the extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Article II, subsection 5(f) of the Plan.
 
(2) As a condition to the issuance of shares upon the exercise of this option, the Company may require you to enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of: (a) the exercise of this option; (b) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture of which the shares are subject at the time of exercise; or (c) the disposition of shares acquired upon such exercise.
 
VI. This option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except as set forth below:
 
(1) If you have named a Trust (as defined in the Plan) as beneficiary of this option, this option may be exercised by the Trust after your death; and
 
(2) All or a portion of this option may be transferred to an Alternate Payee (as defined in the Plan) if required by the terms of a QDRO (as defined in the Plan), as further described in the Plan.
 
VII. This option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
 
VIII. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
 
IX. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of Article II, section 5 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
X. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
XI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon exercise of this option shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
 
XII. By electing to accept this option, you acknowledge receipt of this option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to options awarded under the Plan or future option that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), which is incorporated herein by reference, has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") pursuant to the terms hereof this option. This option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
    
                    
Grant Date
Company
Plan
(Number of Shares)
Code
 
The provisions of your option are as follows:
 
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of this option, on each anniversary of the Grant Date (each, a "") the Ratable Amount (as defined below) of this option shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date. This option may only be exercised for whole shares of Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional shares of Common Stock to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the vesting schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this option. In addition, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. For purposes of this option, the "Ratable Amount" shall mean a whole number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock covered by this option divided by four (4) to which fractional shares of Common Stock resulting from this calculation shall be combined into whole shares of Common Stock and added to the forgoing calculation to vest on the Vesting Date indicated:
Vesting Date
 
 
II.     (1) The per share exercise price of this option is , being not less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this option.
$(Grant Price)
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check or (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
 
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
IV. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary of the date of this option (the ""). This option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason unless:
Expiration Date
 
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or twelve (12) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding such termination of your employment with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after your death and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest as of the day preceding your death with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been
 
employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, options that are scheduled to vest December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in paragraph III above, in which event this option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
 
(4) exercise of this option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), in which case this option will terminate on the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; or (ii) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or
Exchange Act
 
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below) after you are at least sixty (60) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years (""), in which case this option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of this option will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding your Voluntary Termination with respect to all options awarded hereunder.
Voluntary Termination
 
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in paragraphs IV(1) or IV(2) above, respectively, or as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in paragraph IV(5) above, this option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of paragraph I of this option. For purposes of this option, (i) "" shall mean the last date you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
 
V.     (1) To the extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Article II, subsection 5(f) of the Plan.
 
(2) As a condition to the issuance of shares upon the exercise of this option, the Company may require you to enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of: (a) the exercise of this option; (b) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture of which the shares are subject at the time of exercise; or (c) the disposition of shares acquired upon such exercise.
 
VI. This option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except as set forth below:
 
(1) If you have named a Trust (as defined in the Plan) as beneficiary of this option, this option may be exercised by the Trust after your death; and
 
(2) All or a portion of this option may be transferred to an Alternate Payee (as defined in the Plan) if required by the terms of a QDRO (as defined in the Plan), as further described in the Plan.
 
VII. This option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
 
VIII. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
 
IX. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of Article II, section 5 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
X. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
XI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon exercise of this option shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
 
XII. By electing to accept this option, you acknowledge receipt of this option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to options awarded under the Plan or future option that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
 
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named above, under the Amended and Restated 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the ""), restricted stock units (the "") with respect to shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this "") and the Plan. The Units shall constitute stock bonuses under Article II, Section 7 and Article II, subsection 10(d) of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
    
                    
Grant Date
Company
Plan
                        
Units
                        
Agreement
 
I. .
Vesting Schedule and Termination of Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this agreement, (i) "" shall mean the last date that you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director of the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case. Units that remain unvested as of the date of termination of your employment shall expire and terminate on the date of termination of your employment.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
Code
 
II. . Subject to satisfaction of tax or similar obligations as provided for in Section III, any vested Units shall be paid by the Company in shares of Common Stock (on a one-to-one basis) on, or as soon as practicable after, the applicable Vesting Date (which, for purposes of this Section II, includes the date of any accelerated vesting under Sections I(b), (c) or (d) above), but in any event, within the period ending on the later to occur of the date that is 2 months from the end of (i) your tax year that includes the Vesting Date, or (ii) the Company's tax year that includes the applicable Vesting Date. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or for future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment
 
III. . All payments made pursuant to Section II above shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes, based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal, state and local tax purposes, including any employment taxes resulting from the vesting of the Units (the ""). You hereby agree that you will satisfy the Tax Obligations resulting from the vesting of the Units by authorizing, and you hereby authorize, the Company to withhold from the shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable to you as a result of the vesting of the Units in accordance herewith, a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the Tax Obligations. Any shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder. The number of shares of Common Stock tendered by you pursuant to this Section III shall be determined by the Company and be valued at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Tax Obligations arise. To the extent that the number of shares tendered by you pursuant to this Section III is insufficient to satisfy the Tax Obligations, you hereby authorize the Company to deduct from your compensation the additional amount necessary to fully satisfy the Tax Obligations. If the Company chooses not to deduct such amount from your compensation, you agree to pay the Company, in cash or by check, the additional amount necessary to fully satisfy the Tax Obligations. You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section III. Notwithstanding Section II above, no certificates representing the shares of Common Stock shall be delivered to you unless and until you have satisfied your obligations with respect to the full amount of all federal, state and local tax withholding or other employment taxes applicable to you resulting from the payment of the Units earned.
Tax Withholding; Issuance of Certificates
Tax Obligations
 
IV. . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the shares of Common Stock that are scheduled to be issued to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary's debts, contracts, liabilities or torts; , nothing in this Section IV shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution or (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides, as further described in Article II, Section 13 of the Plan.
Transferability
provided, however
 
IV. . This Agreement is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company or an Affiliate, or of the Company or an Affiliate to continue your employment or service with the Company or an Affiliate.
No Contract for Employment
 
V. . Any notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company's records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
Notices
 
VI. . This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, which provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of Article II, Section 7 of the Plan relating to stock bonuses, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
Plan
 
VII. . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the parties shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
VIII. . Neither the Plan nor this Agreement is intended to provide for an elective deferral of compensation that would be subject to Section 409A of the Code (""). The Company reserves the right, to the extent the Company deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion, to unilaterally amend or modify the Plan and/or this Agreement to ensure that no Awards (including without limitation, the Units) become subject to the requirements of Section 409A.
No Compensation Deferral
Section 409A
 
IX. . By electing to accept this Agreement, you acknowledge receipt of this Agreement and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this Agreement constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Agreement, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Agreement. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Units awarded under the Plan or future Units that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Acknowledgement
 
X. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, and no award of Units shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon vesting of the Unit shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such vesting and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Compliance with Laws
Act
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), which is incorporated herein by reference, has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") pursuant to the terms hereof this option. This option is intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
    
                    
Grant Date
Company
Plan
(Number of Shares)
Code
 
The provisions of your option are as follows:
 
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of this option, on each anniversary of the Grant Date (each, a "") the Ratable Amount (as defined below) of this option shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date. This option may only be exercised for whole shares of Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional shares of Common Stock to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the vesting schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this option. In addition, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. For purposes of this option, the "Ratable Amount" shall mean a whole number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock covered by this option divided by four (4) to which fractional shares of Common Stock resulting from this calculation shall be combined into whole shares of Common Stock and added to the forgoing calculation to vest on the Vesting Date indicated:
Vesting Date
 
 
II.     (1) The per share exercise price of this option is , being not less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this option.
$(Grant Price)
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check or (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
 
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
IV. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary of the date of this option (the ""). This option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason unless:
Expiration Date
 
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or twelve (12) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding such termination of your employment with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after your death and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest as of the day preceding your death with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been
 
employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, options that are scheduled to vest December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in paragraph III above, in which event this option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
 
(4) exercise of this option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), in which case this option will terminate on the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; or (ii) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or
Exchange Act
 
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below) after you are at least sixty (60) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years (""), in which case this option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of this option will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding your Voluntary Termination with respect to all options awarded hereunder.
Voluntary Termination
 
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in paragraphs IV(1) or IV(2) above, respectively, or as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in paragraph IV(5) above, this option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of paragraph I of this option. For purposes of this option, (i) "" shall mean the last date you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
 
V.     (1) To the extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Article II, subparagraph 5(f) of the Plan.
 
(2) As a condition to the issuance of shares upon the exercise of this option, the Company may require you to: (i) enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of: (a) the exercise of this option; (b) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture of which the shares are subject at the time of exercise; or (c) the disposition of shares acquired upon such exercise; and (ii) agree to notify the Company in writing within fifteen (15) days after the date of any disposition of any of the shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise of this option that occurs within two (2) years after the date of this option grant or within one (1) year after such shares of Common Stock are transferred upon exercise of this option.
 
VI. This option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except as set forth below:
 
(1) If you have named a Trust (as defined in the Plan) as beneficiary of this option, this option may be exercised by the Trust after your death; and
 
(2) All or a portion of this option may be transferred to an Alternate Payee (as defined in the Plan) if required by the terms of a QDRO (as defined in the Plan), as further described in the Plan.
 
VII. This option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
 
VIII. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
 
IX. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of Article II, paragraph 5 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
X. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
XI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon exercise of this option shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
 
XII. By electing to accept this option, you acknowledge receipt of this option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to options awarded under the Plan or future option that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
 
 
 
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amended and Restated 1999 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), which is incorporated herein by reference, has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option to purchase shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") pursuant to the terms hereof this option. This option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
    
                    
Grant Date
Company
Plan
(Number of Shares)
Code
 
The provisions of your option are as follows:
 
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of this option, on each anniversary of the Grant Date (each, a "") the Ratable Amount (as defined below) of this option shall vest, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date. This option may only be exercised for whole shares of Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional shares of Common Stock to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the vesting schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this option. In addition, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices. For purposes of this option, the "Ratable Amount" shall mean a whole number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock covered by this option divided by four (4) to which fractional shares of Common Stock resulting from this calculation shall be combined into whole shares of Common Stock and added to the forgoing calculation to vest on the Vesting Date indicated:
Vesting Date
 
 
II.     (1) The per share exercise price of this option is , being not less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this option.
$(Grant Price)
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check or (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned shares of Common Stock of a value equal to the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock for which this option is being exercised. The already-owned shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid a charge to the Company's reported earnings and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
 
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this option may not be exercised unless the shares issuable upon exercise of this option are then registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
IV. The term of this option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the seventh (7
th
) anniversary of the date of this option (the ""). This option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason unless:
Expiration Date
 
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or twelve (12) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding such termination of your employment with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after your death and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of options will be accelerated to vest as of the day preceding your death with respect to options scheduled to vest between and including the date of such termination of your employment and: (i) if you have been
 
employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for less than five (5) full years, options that are scheduled to vest December 31 of the first year following the year in which such termination occurs, or (ii) if you have been employed by the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for five (5) or more full years, all options awarded hereunder;
 
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in paragraph III above, in which event this option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
 
(4) exercise of this option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), in which case this option will terminate on the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; or (ii) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or
Exchange Act
 
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below) after you are at least sixty (60) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least fifteen (15) consecutive years (""), in which case this option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or eighteen (18) months after termination of your employment and the vesting schedule of unvested portions of this option will be accelerated to vest, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day preceding your Voluntary Termination with respect to all options awarded hereunder.
Voluntary Termination
 
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in paragraphs IV(1) or IV(2) above, respectively, or as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in paragraph IV(5) above, this option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of paragraph I of this option. For purposes of this option, (i) "" shall mean the last date you are either an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate, and (ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
termination of your employment
Permanent and Total Disability
 
V.     (1) To the extent specified above, this option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Article II, subparagraph 5(f) of the Plan.
 
(2) As a condition to the issuance of shares upon the exercise of this option, the Company may require you to enter an arrangement providing for the payment by you to the Company of any tax withholding obligation of the Company arising by reason of: (a) the exercise of this option; (b) the lapse of any substantial risk of forfeiture of which the shares are subject at the time of exercise; or (c) the disposition of shares acquired upon such exercise.
 
VI. This option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except as set forth below:
 
(1) If you have named a Trust (as defined in the Plan) as beneficiary of this option, this option may be exercised by the Trust after your death; and
 
(2) All or a portion of this option may be transferred to an Alternate Payee (as defined in the Plan) if required by the terms of a QDRO (as defined in the Plan), as further described in the Plan.
 
VII. This option is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this option shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
 
VIII. Any notices provided for in this option or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
 
IX. This option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this option, including without limitation the provisions of Article II, paragraph 5 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
X. The terms of this option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
XI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon exercise of this option shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
 
XII. By electing to accept this option, you acknowledge receipt of this option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to options awarded under the Plan or future option that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
 
 

Exhibit 10.8
 
 
, Amgen Inc. Grantee:
                                    
 
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Performance Award Program (the "") which implements the Amended and Restated 1991 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named above, performance units (the "") on the terms and conditions set forth in this Performance Unit Agreement (this ""), the Plan, the Program and the Resolutions (as defined below). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Program.
    
                        
Grant Date
Company
Program
Plan
                        
Units
Agreement
 
I. . The Performance Cycle shall begin on January 1, 200 and end on December 31, 200.
Performance Cycle
  
  
 
II. . The value of each Unit is equal to the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the Grant Date.
Value of Units
 
III. . Up to 225% of the Units shall be earned, depending on the extent to which the Company achieves objectively determinable performance goals established by the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "") pursuant to those certain Resolutions of the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Amgen Inc., adopted on , regarding the Performance Award Program (the ""). The Units earned shall be calculated in accordance with the Resolutions and the Program.
Performance Goals
Committee
            
Resolutions
 
IV. . Subject to Section X and except as set forth in the Program, any Units earned pursuant to Section III above shall be paid as soon as practicable following the Determination Date in shares of Common Stock based on a 30-day average trading price of the Common Stock ending seven trading days immediately preceding the Determination Date. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or for future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment
 
V. . All payments made pursuant to Section IV above shall be subject to withholding of all applicable taxes, based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal, state and local tax purposes, including any employment taxes resulting from the vesting of the Units (the ""). You hereby agree that you will satisfy the Tax Obligations resulting from the vesting of the Units by authorizing, and you hereby authorize, the Company to withhold from the shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable to you as a result of the vesting of the Units in accordance herewith, a number of shares having a fair market value less than or equal to the Tax Obligations. Any shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been
Issuance of Certificates; Tax Withholding
Tax Obligations
 
issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder. The number of shares of Common Stock tendered by you pursuant to this subsection shall be determined by the Company and be valued at the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date the Tax Obligations arise. To the extent that the number of shares tendered by you pursuant to this subsection is insufficient to satisfy the Tax Obligations, you hereby authorize the Company to deduct from your compensation the additional amount necessary to fully satisfy the Tax Obligations. If the Company chooses not to deduct such amount from your compensation, you agree to pay the Company, in cash or by check, the additional amount necessary to fully satisfy the Tax Obligations. You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section V. Notwithstanding Section IV above, no certificates representing the shares of Common Stock shall be delivered to you unless and until you have satisfied your obligations with respect to the full amount of all federal, state and local tax withholding or other employment taxes applicable to you resulting from the payment of the Units earned.
 
VI. . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the shares of Common Stock that may become issuable to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary's debts, contracts, liabilities or torts; , nothing in this Section VI shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution or (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides, as further described in the Program.
Nontransferability
provided, however
 
VII. . This Agreement is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company, or of the Company to continue your employment or service with the Company.
No Contract for Employment
 
VIII. . Any notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company's records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Secretary of the Company.
Notices
 
IX. . This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Resolutions, the Plan and the Program and their provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement and incorporated herein by reference, including without limitation the provisions of Sections 7 and 10(d) of the Plan (relating to stock bonuses) and Section 11 of the Plan (relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock), and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Resolutions, the Plan and the Program, the provisions of the Plan shall control. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Program to the contrary, any earned Units paid in cash rather than shares of Common Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan.
Resolutions, Plan and Program
 
X. . The Units are not intended to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""). However, if at any time the Committee determines that the Units may be subject to Section 409A, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and without your prior consent to amend the Program as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the Units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the Units, provided that no such amendment may change the Program's "performance goals," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, with respect to any person who is a "covered employee," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Any such amendment to the Program may in the Committee's sole discretion apply retroactively to this award of Units.
No Compensation Deferral
Code
 
XI. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Program to the contrary, if you are employed by the Company or its Affiliates outside the United States or are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, your award of Units shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
Provisions Applicable to Participants in Foreign Jurisdictions
 
(a) the terms and conditions of your award of Units are deemed modified to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws;
 
(b) if applicable, the effectiveness of your award of Units is conditioned upon its compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption and subject to receipt of any required foreign regulatory approvals;
 
(c) to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws, the payment of any earned Units shall be made in cash or Common Stock, at the Company's election; and
 
(d) the Committee may take any other action, before or after an award of Units is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no award of Units shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon vesting of the Unit shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
Act
 
XI. . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the parties shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
 
Accepted and Agreed,
this day of , 2005.
    
                    
 
 


