FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20060929105036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Amgen Inc. ("Amgen") has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of September 28, 2006, with Avidia, Inc. ("Avidia"), Aviator Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Amgen ("Merger Sub"), and Alloy Ventures, Inc., in its capacity as the Stockholders' Agent under the Merger Agreement.
The Merger Agreement provides for, among other things, the merger (the "Merger") of Merger Sub with and into Avidia. The total consideration to be paid by Amgen will consist of an up-front payment, as well as contingent payments which may become payable in the future upon the occurrence of certain milestones. The structure of these payments is summarized below:
 
 
 
The Boards of Directors of each of Amgen and Merger Sub have unanimously approved the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement has also been unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of Avidia. In addition, Amgen has entered into Voting Agreements, dated as of September 28, 2006, with certain stockholders of Avidia (collectively, the "Voting Agreements"), pursuant to which such stockholders have, among other things, approved the Merger as well as agreed to certain other customary restrictions, including restrictions on their ability to transfer their Avidia shares between signing and closing, restriction on solicitation of proposals with respect to alternative transactions involving Avidia, restrictions on solicitation of employees and certain other matters. As a consequence of the Voting Agreements, the Merger has been approved by the required vote of Avidia stockholders.
The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties between Amgen and Merger Sub, on the one hand, and Avidia, on the other. The parties also have agreed to certain customary covenants and agreements, including, with respect to the operation of Avidia's business between signing and closing, the restriction on solicitation of proposals with respect to alternative transactions involving Avidia, governmental filings and approvals, public disclosure, employee benefits and similar matters.
The Merger Agreement may be terminated (i) by mutual consent of the parties, (ii) by Amgen or Avidia if the Merger has not been completed by January 28, 2007, (iii) by Amgen or Avidia if the Merger is enjoined or (iv) by Amgen or Avidia upon an incurable material breach of the Merger Agreement by the other party.
Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions including, among others, (i) receipt of required regulatory approvals, including the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and (ii) no material adverse effect having occurred in respect of Avidia.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 29, 2006


