FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20061006151841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 4, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Amgen Inc. (the "Company") approved the Fourth Amendment to the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2006) (the "Retirement and Savings Plan") and the Seventh Amendment to the Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan (the "Change of Control Severance Plan"). A description of the amendments follow below. The description of the amendments in this report is a summary of the amendments and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the amendments filed herewith.
Fourth Amendment to the Retirement and Savings Plan
The Fourth Amendment to the Retirement and Savings Plan adopts Roth 401(k) accounts effective January 1, 2007. Roth 401(k) accounts will allow participants to make after-tax, salary reduction contributions to the Retirement and Savings Plan which, together with any earnings, will be distributed tax-free if distributed on or after the date on which the participant attains age 59
 1
/
2
, dies, or becomes disabled, and are not distributed within the 5-year period that begins with the first year in which a participant makes a Roth 401(k) contribution. Amgen will match participants' Roth 401(k) contributions on the same basis that it matches participants' pre-tax deferrals, however, such matching contributions will not be allocated to participants' Roth 401(k) accounts and will not eligible for tax-free distribution. Roth contributions will be allowed as catch-up contributions, but will not be eligible for loans or hardship distributions.
The form of this amendment is set forth with this report as Exhibit 10.1.
Seventh Amendment to the Change of Control Severance Plan
Upon a change of control and a qualifying termination of employment, a Change of Control Severance Plan participant is eligible to receive one of three tiers of benefits, depending upon the group into which he or she falls. The Seventh Amendment to the Change of Control Severance Plan conforms the definitions of Groups II and III to the new human resources global career framework which scales staff members based upon career track and function. The framework will soon be adopted by the Company and the amendment will be effective upon the implementation of the new framework. The amendment provides that Group III will consist of staff members in Level 7 of the framework and Group II will consist of staff members in Level 8 and above of the framework, excluding those individuals who are members of Group I. Group I is comprised of individuals who are selected by the Compensation Committee.
The form of this amendment is set forth with this report as Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan ("Plan") is hereby amended, effective as of January 1, 2007, unless provided otherwise herein, as follows:
 
means a contribution that is:
"Pre-Tax Elected Contribution"
 
 
 
means a contribution that is:
"Roth Elective Contribution"
 
 
 
 
means Participant Elected Contributions, Catch-up Contributions, Rollover Contributions and Roth Elective Contributions.
"Employee Contributions"
 
means Pre-Tax Elected Contributions and Roth Elective Contributions.
"Participant Elected Contributions"
 
 
 
 
. The Plan may receive Rollover Contributions on behalf of an Eligible Employee if the following conditions are satisfied:
Rollover Contributions
 
 
If an Eligible Employee who is not a Participant makes a Rollover Contribution, then he or she shall be considered a Participant solely with respect to his or her Rollover Contributions Account until he or she becomes a Participant for all purposes pursuant to Article 3. The Plan will accept Rollover Contributions that include after-tax contributions, and such after-tax contributions shall be separately accounted for under the Plan. The Plan will accept Rollover Contributions of Roth Elective Contributions provided such Roth Elective Contributions are paid directly to the Plan from the plan from which they came, and such Roth Elective Contributions shall be separately accounted for under the Plan.
A Rollover Contribution shall be paid to the Plan in a lump sum in cash and shall be credited to the Participant's Rollover Account. The Participant may direct the investment of his or her Rollover Account by filing the specified investment election form in accordance with such rules as may be established by the Company.
 
Subject to the foregoing limit of Section 414(v) of the Code and the 50% of Compensation limit, beginning January 1, 2007, a Participant can designate, in whole percentage points, his or her Catch-up Contribution as either a Pre-Tax Elected Contribution or as a Roth Elective Contribution or any combination thereof.
 
Roth Elective Deferrals:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. A Participant's Pre-Tax Elected Contributions Account shall consist of his or her Pre-Tax Elected Contributions and Catch-Up Contributions, adjusted to reflect transfers and withdrawals from such Pre-Tax Elected Contributions Account and earnings, gains, expenses and losses attributable to the Investment Fund(s) in which the contributions are invested.
"Pre-Tax Elected Contributions Account"
 
A Participant's Roth Account shall consist of his or her Roth Elective Contributions and, if applicable, Catch-Up Contributions, adjusted to reflect transfers and withdrawals from such Roth Account and earnings, gains, expenses and losses attributable to the Investment Fund(s) in which the contributions are invested.
"Roth Account".
 
. Except for those Participants whose employment with a member of the Affiliated Group was terminated on or prior to December 31, 2001, a Participant's interest in all of his or her Pre-Tax Elected Contributions Account, Roth Account, Qualified Matching Contributions Account, Qualified Nonelective Contributions Account, Rollover Contributions Account, Matching Contributions Account and Nonelective Contributions Account shall be 100% vested and nonforfeitable at all times.
100 Percent Vesting
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Participant shall not be permitted to take a loan from the Roth Account.
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a Participant shall not be permitted to take a hardship withdrawal from the Roth Account.
To record this Amendment to the Plan as set forth herein, Amgen Inc. has caused its authorized officer to execute this document this 4th day of October 2006.
 

Exhibit 10.2
The Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan (the "Plan") is hereby amended, effective upon the implementation of the Global Career Framework as determined by Amgen's Senior Vice President of Human Resources, or his designee, as follows:
1. Section 1(N) of the Plan shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(N) "" shall mean those management-level staff members of the Company, Amgen USA Inc., and Amgen Worldwide Services, Inc., Immunex Corporation, Immunex Manufacturing Corporation, Immunex Rhode Island Corporation, Amgen SF, LLC, and Amgen Fremont, Inc. at Job Level 8 or equivalent and above and who are not Group I Participants, as such group shall be constituted immediately prior to a Change of Control. At or before the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Company shall notify the Group II Participants in writing of their status as Participants in the Plan."
Group II Participants
2. Section 1(O) of the Plan shall be amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
"(O) "" shall mean those management-level staff members of the Company, Amgen USA Inc., and Amgen Worldwide Services, Inc., Immunex Corporation, Immunex Manufacturing Corporation, Immunex Rhode Island Corporation, Amgen SF, LLC, and Amgen Fremont, Inc. at Job Level 7 or equivalent, as such group shall be constituted immediately prior to a Change of Control. At or before the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Company shall notify the Group III Participants in writing of their status as Participants in the Plan."
Group III Participants
To record this Seventh Amendment to the Plan as set forth herein, the Company has caused its authorized officer to executive this document this 4
th
day of October 2006.
 


