FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20060516151741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Amgen Inc. (the "Company") approved the First Amendment to the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2006) (the "Retirement and Savings Plan"), the Second Amendment to the Amgen Supplemental Retirement Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2005 and as further amended by the First Amendment, also effective January 1, 2005) (the "Supplemental Retirement Plan") and the Sixth Amendment to the Amgen Inc. Change in Control Severance Plan (the "Change in Control Severance Plan").
A description of the amendments to each plan follows below. The description of the amendments in this report are summaries of the amendments and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the amendments, the full text of which are set forth in Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3.
First Amendment to the Retirement and Savings Plan
The First Amendment to the Retirement and Savings Plan, effective on the dates specified therein, amends the Retirement and Savings Plan to, among other things, (i) provide for the participation of eligible staff members of Amgen Fremont Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Amgen Inc. resulting from Amgen's acquisition of Abgenix, Inc., (ii) revise certain definitions used in the Retirement and Savings Plan, (iii) revise the provisions of the Retirement and Savings Plan relating to hardship withdrawals to specify the accounts from which hardship withdrawals may be taken and to clarify the consequences of hardship withdrawal, (iv) revise the provisions of the Retirement and Savings Plan relating to lost participants to permit reinstated accounts to be funded by forfeitures or by company contributions if forfeitures are insufficient and (v) add a new Appendix C setting forth provisions relating to the merger of the Immunex Corporation Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan into the Retirement and Savings Plan. The form of this amendment is furnished with this report as Exhibit 10.1.
Second Amendment to the Supplemental Retirement Plan
The Supplemental Retirement Plan is a non-qualified, unfunded plan and participation is available to participants in the Retirement and Savings Plan who are affected by the limits of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), on the amount of employee compensation that may be recognized for purposes of calculating the Company matching contributions. The Second Amendment to the Supplemental Retirement Plan, effective July 1, 2006, amends the Supplemental Retirement Plan to provide that staff members of Amgen Fremont Inc. who meet the plan's eligibility criteria may participate in the plan. The form of this amendment is furnished with this report as Exhibit 10.2.
Sixth Amendment to the Change in Control Severance Plan
The Sixth Amendment to the Change in Control Severance Plan, effective May 10, 2006, amends the Change in Control Severance Plan to provide that staff members of Amgen Fremont Inc. who meet the plan's eligibility criteria may participate in the Change in Control Severance Plan. The form of this amendment is furnished with this report as Exhibit 10.3.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The following sections of the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan are hereby amended effective as of May 10, 2006, unless provided otherwise herein, as follows:
 
"" means the separate accounts described in Article 6 maintained for each Participant as a part of the Trust Fund. Each Participant's Accounts are credited with the Participant's Employee Contributions, his or her share of Company Contributions and Forfeitures, any income, gains, expenses and losses accruing on amounts previously credited to the Accounts, and are adjusted to reflect transfers and withdrawals. Each of the Participant's Accounts, as described in Article 6, may be comprised of subaccounts for recordkeeping purposes, as necessary."
Accounts
 
"" is the term generally used under the Plan to describe the amount with respect to which Plan contributions are made and means an Eligible Employee's wages, salaries, fees for professional services, and other amounts received (without regard to whether or not an amount is paid in cash) for personal services actually rendered in the course of employment with any member of the Affiliated Group to the extent that the amounts are includable in gross income (including, but not limited to, commissions paid to salespersons, compensation for services on the basis of a percentage of profits, commissions on insurance premiums, tips, bonuses, fringe benefits, and reimbursements or other expense allowances under a nonaccountable plan (as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.62-2(c)), but excluding any "goods and services allowance" provided to certain expatriate staff members.
Compensation
"Compensation" shall also include: (a) any amount the Participant has elected to defer under this Plan or any cafeteria plan under Section 125, Section 402(e)(3), Section 402(h), and Section 403(b) of the Code; (b) compensation deferred under an eligible deferred compensation plan within the meaning of Section 457(b) of the Code (deferred compensation plans of state and local governments and tax-exempt organizations); and (c) employee contributions (under governmental plans) described in Section 414(h)(2) of the Code that are picked up by the employing unit and thus are treated as employer contributions.
In addition, an Employee who is in qualified military service, as defined in Section 414(u)(5) of the Code, shall be treated as receiving compensation from the Company during such period of qualified military service equal to: (a) the compensation the Employee would have received during such period if the Employee were not in qualified military service, determined based on the rate of pay the Employee would have received from the Company but for absence during the period of qualified military service; or (b) if the compensation the Employee would have received during such period was not reasonably certain, the Employee's average compensation from the Company during the 12-month period immediately preceding the qualified military service (or, if shorter, the period of employment immediately preceding the qualified military service).
"Compensation" shall not include:
(a) any Company Contributions or other contributions made by any member of the Affiliated Group to a plan of deferred compensation to the extent that, before the application of the limitations of Section 415 of the Code to that plan, the contributions are not includible in the gross income of the Employee for the taxable year in which contributed. In addition, Company contributions made on behalf of an Employee to a simplified employee pension described in Section 408(k) of the Code are not considered Compensation for the taxable year in which contributed. Additionally, any distributions from a plan of deferred compensation are not considered Compensation for purposes of Section 415 of the Code, regardless of whether such amounts are includible in the gross income of the Employee when distributed. However, any amount received by an Employee pursuant to an unfunded non-qualified plan is permitted to be considered Compensation for purposes of Section 415 of the Code in the year the amounts are includible in the gross income of the Employee;
(b) amounts realized from the exercise of a nonqualified stock option (or when restricted stock (or property) held by an Employee either becomes freely transferable or is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture under Section 83 of the Code);
(c) amounts realized from the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock acquired under a qualified stock option;
(d) other amounts which receive special tax benefits, such as premiums for group-term life insurance (but only to the extent that the premiums are not includible in the gross income of the Employee), or contributions made by the Company (whether or not under a salary reduction agreement) towards the purchase of an annuity contract described in Section 403(b) of the Code (whether or not the contributions are excludable from the gross income of the Employee); or
(e) amounts in excess of the Compensation Limitation." Effective July 1, 2006, "Compensation" for Eligible Employees of Amgen Fremont Inc. shall not include compensation earned by such Eligible Employees prior to their participation in the Plan.
 
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with Section 11.4, participation is also suspended for 6 months if a Participant takes a Hardship Withdrawal. A Participant shall not make Participant Elected Contributions or Catch-up Contributions or receive any allocation of Matching Contributions with respect to a period of suspended participation following a Participant's taking of a Hardship Withdrawal, but a suspended Participant's Accounts shall remain invested as a part of the Trust Fund and shall continue to share in the gains, income, losses and expenses of the Trust Fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant who is suspended in accordance with Section 11.4 shall: (i) continue to receive an allocation of Nonelective Contributions during the period of suspended participation, and (ii) receive any allocation of Matching Contributions, including true-up Matching Contributions as described in Section 5.1(b), with respect to Participant Elected Contributions or Catch-up Contributions made by the Participant prior to the period of suspended participation and which are contributed to the Plan by the Company during the Participant's period of suspended participation."
"Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, any Forfeiture arising under Section 7 or any other provision of the Plan shall be applied to reduce Nonelective Contributions or Matching Contributions, including reinstated contributions, for the Plan Year."
 
. In the event that a Beneficiary or Participant cannot be located at the time a benefit is payable from the Plan to him or her, then at the close of the 12-consecutive-month period following the date on which the amount became payable, the amount shall be treated as a Forfeiture. Such a Forfeiture shall nevertheless be reinstated, without interest, if the Participant or Beneficiary subsequently is located and makes a valid claim for the benefit. Such reinstated amount shall be made from any Forfeitures for such Plan Year, as permitted under Section 7.2; otherwise, the Company shall make additional contributions to the Plan, as necessary."
"Lost Participant or Beneficiary
 
"A Participant who is an Employee may take a Hardship Withdrawal of all or any portion of his or her previously unwithdrawn Participant Elected Contributions, Catch-up Contributions, and Rollover Contributions and earnings thereon accrued prior to January 1, 1988."
 
. Participation is suspended for 6 months if a Participant takes a Hardship Withdrawal. For a period of 6 months following a Participant's taking of a Hardship Withdrawal, the Participant shall not: (i) make Participant Elected Contributions or Catch-up Contributions under the Plan; (ii) make employee before and after-tax contributions to the other qualified and nonqualified deferred compensation plans sponsored by members of the Affiliated Group; and (iii) receive any allocation of Matching Contributions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant who takes a Hardship Withdrawal shall: (i) continue to receive an allocation of Nonelective Contributions during the period of suspended participation, and (ii) receive any allocation of Matching Contributions, including true-up Matching Contributions as described in Section 5.1(b), with respect to Participant Elected Contributions or Catch-up Contributions made by the Participant prior to the period of suspended participation and which are contributed to the Plan by the Company during the Participant's period of suspended participation. A suspended Participant's Accounts shall remain invested as a part of the Trust Fund and shall continue to share in the gains, income, losses and expenses of the Trust Fund."
"Consequences of a Hardship Withdrawal
 
 
Amgen Clinical Development 7, Limited
Amgen Clinical Development 8, Limited
Amgen SF, LLC
Amgen USA Inc.
Amgen Worldwide Services, Inc.
Immunex Corporation
Immunex Manufacturing Corporation
Immunex Rhode Island Corporation
Tularik Pharmaceutical Company
Amgen Fremont Inc.
 
To record this First Amendment to the Plan as set forth herein, Amgen Inc. has caused its authorized officer to execute this document this 16
th
day of May, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
Appendix A of the Amgen Supplemental Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 and as further amended by the First Amendment to the Amgen Supplemental Retirement Plan, also effective January 1, 2005 (the "Plan") is hereby amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of July 1, 2006, as follows:
Appendix A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To record this Second Amendment to the Plan as set forth herein, the Company has caused its authorized officer to execute this document this 16
th
day of May, 2006.
 

Exhibit 10.3
The Amgen Inc. Change of Control Severance Plan (the "Plan") is hereby amended, effective May 10, 2006, as follows:
 
"(N) "" shall mean those management-level staff members of the Company, Amgen USA Inc., and Amgen Worldwide Services, Inc., Immunex Corporation, Immunex Manufacturing Corporation, Immunex Rhode Island Corporation, Amgen SF, LLC, and Amgen Fremont Inc. at the level of Director or equivalent and above (i.e., those employees of the Company or the aforementioned entities whose positions have been designated as Salary Grade 32 or Salary Grade EL4 and above, or effective January 1, 2005, Salary Grade 102 and above) and who are not Group I Participants, as such group shall be constituted immediately prior to a Change of Control. At or before the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Company shall notify the Group II Participants in writing of their status as Participants in the Plan."
Group II Participants
 
"(O) "" shall mean those management-level staff members of the Company, Amgen USA Inc., and Amgen Worldwide Services, Inc., Immunex Corporation, Immunex Manufacturing Corporation, Immunex Rhode Island Corporation, Amgen SF, LLC, and Amgen Fremont Inc. at the level of Director or equivalent an above (i.e., those employees of the Company or the aforementioned entities whose positions have been designated as Salary Grade 30 or Salary Grade EL2 or EL3 and above, or effective January 1, 2005, Salary Grade 101 and above), as such group shall be constituted immediately prior to a Change of Control. At or before the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Company shall notify the Group III Participants in writing of their status as Participants in the Plan."
Group III Participants
To record this Sixth Amendment to the Plan as set forth herein, the Company has caused its authorized officer to executive this document this 16
th
day of May, 2006.
 


