FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20060221171733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
On February 14, 2006, Amgen Inc. (the "Company") entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") under which it agreed to sell $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes") and $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of its 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and, together with the 2011 Notes, the "Notes") to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"). The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the Initial Purchasers' discount and the estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, are expected to be approximately $4.9 billion. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, is incorporated herein by reference, and is hereby filed; the description of the Purchase Agreement in this report is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
The closing of the sale of the Notes occurred on February 17, 2006. The Notes and the shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the "Common Stock"), issuable in certain circumstances upon conversion of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers then sold the Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement.
The 2011 Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of February 17, 2006 (the "2011 Indenture"), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). A copy of the 2011 Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, is incorporated herein by reference, and is hereby filed; the descriptions of the 2011 Indenture and the 2011 Notes in this report are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the 2011 Indenture and 2011 Notes, respectively. The 2013 Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of February 17, 2006 (the "2011 Indenture" and, together with the 2011 Indenture, the "Indentures"), between the Company and the Trustee. A copy of the 2013 Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2, is incorporated herein by reference, and is hereby filed; the descriptions of the 2013 Indenture and the 2013 Notes in this report are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the 2013 Indenture and the 2013 Notes, respectively.
The 2011 Notes will be convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock based on a conversion rate of 12.5247 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2011 Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $79.84 per share) and the 2013 Notes will be convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock based on a conversion rate of 12.5814 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2013 Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $79.48 per share), in each case subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter beginning after June 30, 2006 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing price of the Common Stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate; (2) if specified distributions to holders of the Common Stock are made, as set forth in the Indentures, respectively; and (3) during the last month prior to maturity of the applicable Notes. Upon conversion, a holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the Note or (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the Indentures. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the Note on the conversion date, the Company will also deliver, at its election, cash or Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000.
The 2011 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.125% per year and the 2013 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.375% per year, in each case payable semiannually in arrears in cash on February 1 and August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2006. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes will mature on February 1, 2011 and February 1, 2013, respectively.
The holders of the Notes who convert their Notes in connection with a change in control, as defined in the applicable Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a change in control, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
The Notes will rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness, including indebtedness under the Company's senior credit facility, its Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2032, its Zero Coupon Convertible Notes due 2032, its 4.00% Senior Notes due 2009 and its 4.85% Senior Notes due 2014. The Notes will rank senior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated indebtedness and effectively subordinated in right of payment to all of its subsidiaries' obligations (including secured and unsecured obligations) and subordinated in right of payment to its secured obligations to the extent of the assets securing such obligation.
In connection with the sale of the Notes, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of February 17, 2006, with the Initial Purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to use its reasonable efforts to cause to become effective within 270 days after the closing of the offering of the Notes, a shelf registration statement with respect to the resale of the Notes and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes. The Company will use its reasonable efforts to keep the shelf registration statement effective for a period of two years after the closing of the offering of the Notes or until the earlier of (i) the sale or transfer pursuant to a shelf registration statement of all of the Notes and Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, and (ii) the date when holders (other than holders that are the Company's "affiliates") of the Notes and Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes are able to sell all such securities immediately without restriction. The Company will be required to pay additional interest, subject to some limitations, to the holders of the Notes if it fails to comply with its obligations to register the Notes and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.3, is incorporated herein by reference, and is hereby filed; the description of the Registration Rights Agreement in this report is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement.
In connection with the sale of the Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its Common Stock (the "Purchased Call Options") with Merrill Lynch International and Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited ("Morgan Stanley International" and, together with Merrill Lynch International, the "Dealers"). The Purchased Call Options will cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 62.7 million shares of Common Stock at a strike price which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes. The Company paid an aggregate amount of approximately $1.5 billion of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes for the Purchased Call Options. Merrill Lynch International's performance under the convertible note hedge transactions is guaranteed by Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and Morgan Stanley International's performance is guaranteed by Morgan Stanley.
The Company also entered into separate warrant transactions whereby the Company has sold to the Dealers warrants to acquire, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 62.7 million shares of Common Stock (the "Sold Warrants") at a strike price of $107.90 per share of Common Stock. Half of the Sold Warrants will be exercisable and will expire in May 2011 and half will be exercisable and will expire in May 2013. The Company received aggregate proceeds of approximately $775 million from the sale of the Sold Warrants. Merrill Lynch International's performance under the warrant transactions is guaranteed by Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. and Morgan Stanley International's performance is guaranteed by Morgan Stanley.
The Purchased Call Options and Sold Warrants are separate contracts entered into by the Company with Merrill Lynch International and Morgan Stanley International, are not part of the terms of the Notes and will not affect the holders' rights under the Notes. The Purchased Call Options are expected to offset the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes in the event that the market value per share of the Common Stock at the time of exercise is greater than the strike price of the Purchased Call Options, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes and is simultaneously subject to certain customary adjustments.
If the market value per share of the Common Stock at the time of conversion of the Notes is above the strike price of the Purchased Call Options, the Purchased Call Options entitle the Company to receive from the Dealers net shares of Common Stock, cash or a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash, depending on the consideration paid on the underlying Notes, based on the excess of the then current market price of the Common Stock over the strike price of the Purchased Call Options. Additionally, if the market price of the Common Stock at the time of exercise of the Sold Warrants exceeds the strike price of the Sold Warrants, the Company will owe the Dealers net shares of Common Stock or cash, not offset by the Purchased Call Options, in an amount based on the excess of the then current market price of the Common Stock over the strike price of the Sold Warrants.
These transactions will generally have the effect of increasing the conversion price of the Notes to $107.90 per share of Common Stock, representing a 50 percent premium based on the last reported bid price of $71.93 per share on Feb. 14, 2006.
The Sold Warrants and the underlying Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Sold Warrants have not been registered under the Securities Act, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
On February 16, 2006, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase arrangement to repurchase 14,188,162 million shares of Common Stock through a purchase agreement between the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("Citigroup"). The agreement allows the Company to repurchase the shares immediately, while Citigroup will purchase an equivalent number of shares in the open market over time. The initial price per share was $81.00. The Company may receive or be required to remit a price adjustment based upon the price of the Common Stock during that period. The purchase price adjustment is expected to be settled in March 2006.
Section 2  Financial Information
 
On February 17, 2006, the Company issued $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes and $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes. The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers then sold the Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
The 2011 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.125% per year and the 2013 Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.375% per year, in each case payable semiannually in arrears in cash on February 1 and August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2006. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes will mature on February 1, 2011 and February 1, 2013, respectively.
The holders of the Notes who convert their Notes in connection with a change in control as defined in the applicable Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a change in control, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
The Notes and the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Additional terms and conditions are contained in Item 1.01 and are incorporated herein by reference.
Section 3  Securities and Trading Markets
 
On February 14, 2006, the Company agreed to sell $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2011 Notes and $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2013 Notes to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC in a private placement pursuant to exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the Initial Purchasers' discount and the estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, were approximately $4.9 billion. The Initial Purchasers received an aggregate commission of $87.5 million in connection with the offering of the Notes.
The Company offered and sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers then sold the Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement.
The Notes and the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
On February 14, 2006, pursuant to the Sold Warrants, the Company agreed to sell warrants to acquire, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 62.7 million shares of Common Stock at a strike price of $107.90 per share of Common Stock in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Company received aggregate proceeds of approximately $775 million from the sale of the Sold Warrants.
Additional information pertaining to the Notes and the Sold Warrants is contained in Item 1.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Neither the Sold Warrants nor the underlying Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Sold Warrants have been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of February 17, 2006 between AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee ("Trustee").
Company
 
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the ""):
Securities
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01 .
Definitions
 
"" means all additional interest owing on the Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
 
"" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
"" means the Conversion Rate on any Trading Day, as adjusted in accordance with Article 10. For purposes of determining the Conversion Value, the Applicable Conversion Rate means the Conversion Rate on the Conversion Date.
Applicable Conversion Rate
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
Applicable Procedures
 
"" means (1) with respect to distributions of rights, warrants or options, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution and (2) with respect to other distributions, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the Time of Determination.
Average Closing Price
 
In the event that the Ex-Dividend Time (or in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification, the effective date with respect thereto) with respect to a dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification to which Section 10.06(1), (2), (3) or (5) applies occurs during the period applicable for calculating "" pursuant to the definition in the preceding sentence, "" shall be calculated for such period in a manner determined by the Board of Directors to reflect the impact of such dividend,
Average Closing Price
Average Closing Price
 
subdivision, combination or reclassification on the Closing Price of the Common Stock during such period.
 
"" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
 
"" means any weekday that is not a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated to close.
Business Day
 
"" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation.
Capital Stock
 
"" means Securities that are substantially in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Certificated Securities
 
"" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
Close of Business
 
"" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing per share sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and average ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, (i) as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated, or (ii) if such bid and ask prices are not reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated, in a manner to be determined by the Company on the basis of such quotation as the Company considers appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion.
Closing Price
 
"" means the shares of common stock, $0.0001 par value, of the Company as it exists on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which the Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
 
"" means the party named as the "" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Company
Company
 
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers.
Company Request
Company Order
 
"" means the date on which the Holder of the Security has complied with all requirements under this Indenture to convert such Security.
Conversion Date
 
"" per share of Common Stock as of any day means the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the then Applicable Conversion Rate.
Conversion Price
 
"" means the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a Security per $1,000 of Principal Amount thereof, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 10.
Conversion Rate
 
"" means (a) for Securities that are converted during the period beginning on the 30
Conversion Reference Period
th
day prior to the Maturity Date, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Maturity Date and (b) in all other instances, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
 
"" means the amount equal to the product of (a) the Applicable Conversion Rate multiplied by (b) the average of the Volume Weighted Average Price on each of the Trading Days during the Conversion Reference Period.
Conversion Value
 
"" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 4 New York Plaza, 15
Corporate Trust Office
th
Floor, New York, NY 10004, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
 
"" means, for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 Principal Amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
Daily Share Amounts
 
 
 
"" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means DTC or the nominee thereof, or any successor thereto.
Depositary
 
"" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Global Securities
 
"" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
Securityholder
 
"" means with respect to the Company at any date, without duplication, obligations (other than nonrecourse obligations) for borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments.
Indebtedness
 
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof.
Indenture
 
"" means 12.5247 shares of Common Stock per Principal Amount of $1,000, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 10.
Initial Conversion Rate
 
"" means each date specified as such in paragraph 1 of the Securities.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security.
Issue Date
 
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Nasdaq National Market or otherwise) in Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
Market Disruption Event
 
"" means the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
 
"" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers, and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers executing the Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be the principal executive officer, financial officer or accounting officer of the Company.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company or the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" or "" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
person
 
"" of a Security means the Principal Amount as set forth on the face of the Security.
Principal Amount
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.07.
Protected Purchaser
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated on behalf of the Initial Purchasers.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to any Interest Payment Date, the January 15 or the July 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Regular Record Date
 
"" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee having direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means a Global Security that is a Restricted Security.
Restricted Global Security
 
"" means a Security required to bear the Legend.
Restricted Security
 
"" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any successor to such Rule.
Rule 144
 
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act or any successor to such Rule.
Rule 144A
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means any of the Company's 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture.
Securities
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Securityholder
Holder
 
"" means a "", as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933.
Significant Subsidiary
significant subsidiary
 
"" means for the payment of any Defaulted Interest, the date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.02.
Special Record Date
 
"," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the Principal Amount of such Security or such installment of interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means (i) a corporation, a majority of whose Voting Stock is, at the date of determination, directly or indirectly owned by the Company, by one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, (ii) a partnership in which the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or the Company and one or
Subsidiary
 
more Subsidiaries of the Company, holds a majority interest in the equity capital or profits of such partnership, or (iii) any other person (other than a corporation or a partnership) in which the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company, or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, has (x) at least a majority ownership interest or (y) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the directors or trustees, as the case may be, or other governing body of such person.
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, provided, however, that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
 
"" means the time and date of the earlier of (i) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants or options or a distribution, in each case, to which Sections 10.07, 10.08 or 10.10 applies and (ii) the time ("Ex-Dividend Time") immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such rights, warrants or options or distribution on the Nasdaq National Market or such other national or regional exchange or market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
Time of Determination
 
"" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the Nasdaq National Market or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed, is open for trading or, if the Common Stock is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any business day. A Trading Day only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
Trading Day
 
"" means the party named as the "" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Trustee
Trustee
 
"" means the price per share of the Common Stock on any Trading Day as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page AMGN <equity> VAP in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time), on such Trading Day; or, if such price is not available, the market value per share of the Common Stock on such day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company.
Volume Weighted Average Price
 
"" means, with respect to any corporation, association, company or business trust, stock or other securities of the class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such corporation, association, company or business trust, provided that, for the purposes hereof, stock or other securities which carry only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered Voting Stock whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting Stock
 
SECTION 1.02 .
Other Definitions
 
 
SECTION 1.03 .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"" means the SEC.
Commission
 
"" means the Securities.
indenture securities
 
"" means a Securityholder.
indenture security holder
 
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
 
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
"" on the indenture securities means the Company.
obligor
 
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
 
SECTION 1.04 .
Rules of Construction
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time;
 
(3) "" is not exclusive;
or
 
(4) "" means including, without limitation; and
including
 
(5) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
 
SECTION 1.05 .
Acts of Holders
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments (which may take the form of an electronic writing or messaging or otherwise be in accordance with customary procedures of the Depositary or the Trustee) of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing (which may be in electronic form); and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such
 
instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent (either of which may be in electronic form) shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
Act
 
(a) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution (or electronic delivery) or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing or delivering such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof (or electronic delivery). Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing (electronic or otherwise), or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
(b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register for the Securities maintained by the Registrar.
 
(c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
(d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the Close of Business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01 .
Form and Dating
 
The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A, which is a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Securities are being offered and sold by the Company pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated February 14, 2006 (the "") between the Company and the several purchasers named in Schedule A thereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"), in transactions exempt from, or not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
Purchase Agreement
 
(a) Restricted Global Securities. All of the Securities are initially being offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A (collectively, "" or individually, each a "") in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Restricted Global Securities, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the securities represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the depositary, The Depository Trust Company ("", and such depositary, or any successor thereto, being hereinafter referred to as the "Depositary"), and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. (or any successor thereto), for the accounts of participants in the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.
QIBS
QIB
DTC
 
(b) Global Securities in General. Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions and conversions. Except as provided in this Section 2.01, 2.06 or 2.12, owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Certificated Securities.
 
Any adjustment of the aggregate Principal Amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 hereof and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary, subject in each case to compliance with Applicable Procedures.
 
(c) Book-Entry Provisions. This Section 2.01(c) shall apply only to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary.
 
The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(c), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall bear legends substantially to the following effect:
 
"UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF."
 
(d) Certificated Securities. Securities not issued as interests in the Global Securities will be issued in certificated form substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.
 
SECTION 2.02 .
Execution and Authentication
 
(a) The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer. The signature of the Officer on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
 
(b) Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of an individual who was at the time of the execution of the Securities the proper Officer of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office at the date of authentication of such Securities.
 
(c) No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee, and such certificate upon any Security
 
shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
(d) Subject to the terms of Section 12.04 and 12.05 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver Securities for original issue in an aggregate Principal Amount of $2,500,000,000 (subject to Section 2.07 hereof) upon a Company Order without any further action by the Company. The aggregate Principal Amount of Securities outstanding at any time may not exceed the amount set forth in the foregoing sentence, except as provided in Section 2.07.
 
(e) The Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof.
 
(f) The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any securities under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not be lawfully taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders.
 
SECTION 2.03 .
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
 
(a) The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange for other Securities (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment ("") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion into Common Stock (""). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their registration of transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05.
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
 
(b) The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or co-registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent (other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
 
(c) The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
 
SECTION 2.04 .
Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, by no later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Security, the Company shall
 
deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or Common Stock sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all money and Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and Common Stock so held in trust. If the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money or Common Stock.
 
SECTION 2.05 .
Securityholder Lists
 
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on June 1 and December 1 a listing of Securityholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Securityholders.
 
SECTION 2.06 .
Transfer and Conversion
 
Subject to Section 2.12 hereof,
 
(a) upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the registration of transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Securityholder requesting such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
At the option of the Holder, Certificated Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon
 
receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, any Securities in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased).
 
(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.12 and this Section 2.06(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole, or in part, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee.
 
(c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities.
 
(d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon registration of transfer or exchange of Securities.
 
(e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made.
 
SECTION 2.07 .
Replacement Securities
 
(a) If (i) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (ii) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser within the meaning of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of New York (a ""), the Company shall execute and upon a Company Request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and Principal Amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Protected Purchaser
 
(b) In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be.
 
(c) Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
 
charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
(d) Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
 
(e) The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
SECTION 2.08 .
Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action
 
(a) Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those paid pursuant to Section 2.07 and delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Principal Amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Articles 6 and 9).
 
(b) If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, the replaced Security ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to each of them that the replaced Security is held by a Protected Purchaser.
 
(c) If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Change in Control Purchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Securities shall cease to accrue whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent.
 
(d) If a Security is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the Conversion Date, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and interest shall cease to accrue on such Security.
 
SECTION 2.09 .
Temporary Securities
 
(a) Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
(b) If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.03, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like Principal Amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
 
SECTION 2.10 .
Cancellation
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase by the Company pursuant to Article 3, conversion or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure.
 
SECTION 2.11 .
Persons Deemed Owners
 
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Security or the payment of any Change in Control Purchase Price in respect thereof, and interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
SECTION 2.12 .
Legend; Additional Transfer and Exchange Requirements
 
(a) If Securities are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Securities subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends set forth in Section 2.12(f) (collectively, the ""), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Security, the Securities so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an Opinion of Counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Securities are not "" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act; provided that no such evidence need be supplied in connection with the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale. Upon (1) provision of such satisfactory evidence if requested, or (2) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, upon Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver a Security that does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Security and the Security is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated.
Legend
restricted
 
(b) Subject to Section 2.12(c)(i) and in compliance with Section 2.12(d), every Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend. Whenever any Restricted Security other than a Restricted Global Security is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or in exchange for a Security registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Security must be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Security, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Security not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, (A) transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(c)(i), (B) transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(c)(ii) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(c)(iii) and (iv) below.
 
(i) Transfer of Global Security. A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; provided that this clause (i) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Securities unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 2.12(c)(i) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 2.12(c).
 
(ii) Restrictions on Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security. A beneficial interest in a Global Security may not be exchanged for a Certificated Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. Upon receipt by the Trustee of a request for transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security in accordance with Applicable Procedures for a Certificated Security in the form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with written instructions to the Trustee to make, or direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such decrease, then the Trustee shall cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be decreased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Security to be issued, shall authenticate and deliver such Certificated Security and shall debit or cause to be debited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Security so issued.
 
(iii) Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities. When Certificated Securities are presented to the Registrar with a request:
 
 
 
the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met; provided, however, that the Certificated Securities surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
(iv) Restrictions on Transfer of a Certificated Security for a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security. A Certificated Security may not be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below.
 
Upon receipt by the Trustee of a Certificated Security, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with written instructions directing the Trustee to make, or to direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect an increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such increase, then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Security and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be increased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Security to be exchanged,
 
and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Security so cancelled. If no Global Securities are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate a new Global Security in the appropriate Principal Amount.
 
(d) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Security shall cease and terminate when such Security has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision). Any Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Security for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar and addressed to the Company and the Registrar, to the effect that the transfer of such Security has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Security, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the offer and sale of the Securities under the Securities Act. The Trustee or the Registrar shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel.
 
As used in Sections 2.12(b) and (d), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, hypothecation or other disposition of any Security
 
(e) The provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
 
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, except as provided in Section 2.12(c)(ii), a Global Security shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, provided that a Global Security may be exchanged for Securities registered in the names of any person designated by the Depositary in the event that (i) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or such Depositary has ceased to be a "" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (ii) the Company decides to discontinue use of the system of book-entry transfer through DTC (or any successor depositary); or (iii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (iii) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Security issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security; provided that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security.
clearing agency
 
(2) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate Principal Amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the Principal Amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof.
 
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause (5) below, the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members (as defined below) and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
 
(4) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (1) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons.
 
(5) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security.
Agent Members
 
(f) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any stock certificate representing Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Common Stock has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or such Common Stock has been issued upon conversion of Securities that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent:
 
THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY PRIOR TO THE DATE THAT IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH AMGEN INC. (THE "COMPANY") OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (C) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRANSFER AGENT'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (C) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS CERTIFICATE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRANSFER AGENT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
 
Any such Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section.
 
(g) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any certificate representing any Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Security has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent:
 
THE NOTES AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF
 
1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
 
Any such Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such Security for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like amount of Securities, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section.
 
SECTION 2.13 .
CUSIP Numbers
 
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
CUSIP
CUSIP
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01 .
Purchase of Securities at Option of the Holder upon Change in Control
 
(a) If on or prior to the date specified in paragraph 5 of the Securities, there shall have occurred a Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for cash all or any portion of such Holder's Securities in integral multiples of $1,000 Principal Amount at a purchase price specified in paragraph 5 of the Securities (the ""), as of the date that is no later than 35 Business Days after the occurrence of the Change in Control but in no event prior to the date on which such Change in Control occurs (the ""), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(c).
Change in Control Purchase Price
Change in Control Purchase Date
 
A "" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur:
Change in Control
 
(1) any person or group, other than the Company, its Subsidiaries or any employee benefits plan of the Company or its Subsidiaries, files a Schedule 13D or Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) pursuant to the Exchange Act, disclosing that such person has become the beneficial owner of 50% or more of the voting power of the Common Stock then outstanding or other capital stock into which the Common Stock is reclassified or changed; provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed beneficial owner of, or to own beneficially, (A) any securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such person or any of such person's Affiliates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange thereunder, or (B) any securities if such beneficial ownership (1) arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any successor schedule) under the Exchange Act; or
 
(2) the Company consolidates with or merges with or into another person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company), or sells, conveys, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) or any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) consolidates with or merges with or into the Company, and the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into, converted for or converted into the right to receive any other property or security, provided that none of these circumstances will be a change in control if the persons that beneficially own the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to the transaction own, directly or indirectly, shares with a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee person that are entitled to vote generally in the election of that person's board of directors, managers or trustees immediately after the transaction.
 
For purposes of defining a Change in Control:
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will not constitute a Change in Control if 100% of the consideration for the Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenter's appraisal rights and cash payment of the Required Cash Amount, if any) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change in Control consists of common stock traded on a United States national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market, or which will be so traded or quoted when exchanged in connection with the Change in Control, and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Securities become convertible solely into such common stock.
 
(b) As promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces the Change in Control transaction, but in no event less than 15 Business Days prior to the anticipated effective date of a Change in Control, the Company shall mail a written notice of Change in Control by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder at their addresses shown in the register of the Registrar (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Change in Control Purchase Notice to be completed by the Securityholder and shall state:
 
(1) briefly, the events causing a Change in Control;
 
(2) the anticipated effective date of such Change in Control;
 
(3) whether such Change in Control will also constitute a Public Acquirer Change in Control and the conversion rights available to the Holders in connection with such Public Acquirer Change in Control, including the period of conversion, if any, and any adjustments to the Conversion Rate;
 
(4) the date by which the Change in Control Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 3.01 must be given;
 
(5) the Change in Control Purchase Price;
 
(6) the Change in Control Purchase Date;
 
(7) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
 
(8) the Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto;
 
(9) that Securities with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
 
(10) the procedures a Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
 
(11) that Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price;
 
(12) that the Change in Control Purchase Price for any Security as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn, together with any accrued interest payable with respect thereto, will be paid on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security;
 
(13) briefly, the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
 
(14) briefly, the conversion rights of the Securities;
 
(15) the procedures for withdrawing a Change in Control Purchase Notice;
 
(16) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest due, if any, interest on Securities surrendered for purchase will cease to accrue on and after the Change in Control Purchase Date; and
 
(17) the CUSIP number of the Securities.
 
(c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.01(a) by delivery of a written notice of purchase (a "") to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date, stating:
Change in Control Purchase Notice
 
(1) the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased;
 
(2) the portion of the Principal Amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and
 
(3) that such Security shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 5 of the Securities.
 
The delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Change in Control Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.01 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Change in Control Purchase Notice.
 
The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.01, a portion of a Security if the Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security.
 
Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder (together with accrued and unpaid interest) on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 3.01.
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Change in Control Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.02.
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Change in Control Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
 
The Company shall not be required to comply with this Section 3.01 if a third party mails a written notice of Change in Control in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with this Section 3.01 and repurchases all Securities for which a Change in Control Purchase Notice shall be delivered and not withdrawn.
 
SECTION 3.02 .
Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice
 
Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Change in Control Purchase Notice specified in Section 3.01(c), the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Change in Control Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change in Control Purchase Price and any accrued and unpaid interest, with respect to such Security. Such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of (x) the Change in Control Purchase Date, with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 3.01(c) have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01(c). Securities in
 
respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Change in Control Purchase Notice unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs.
 
A Change in Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date specifying:
 
(1) the certificate number of the Security in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted,
 
(2) the Principal Amount of the Security with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and
 
(3) the Principal Amount, if any, of such Security which remains subject to the original Change in Control Purchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
 
A written notice of withdrawal of a Change in Control Purchase Notice may be in the form set forth in the preceding paragraph.
 
There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to 3.01 if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Securities, of the required Change in Control Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities (x) with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price) in which case, upon such return, the Change in Control Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
 
SECTION 3.03 .
Deposit of Change in Control Purchase Price
 
Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date.
 
SECTION 3.04 .
Securities Purchased in Part
 
Any Security which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly
 
executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate Principal Amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the Principal Amount of the Security so surrendered which is not purchased.
 
SECTION 3.05 .
Covenant to Comply With Securities Laws Upon Purchase of Securities
 
In connection with any offer to purchase or purchase of Securities under Section 3.01 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), the Company shall, to the extent required by law, (i) comply with Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 and any other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act which may then apply and (ii) otherwise comply with all Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.01.
issuer tender offer
 
SECTION 3.06 .
Repayment to the Company
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed as provided in paragraph 10 of the Securities, together with interest thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)), held by them for the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price; provided, however, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.03 exceeds the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price, with respect to, the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Change in Control Purchase Date, whether as a result of withdrawal or otherwise, then promptly after the Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)).
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01 .
Payment of Securities
 
The Company shall promptly make all payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. Any amounts to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent, shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, by the Company. Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest, shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Change in Control Purchase Price, on or prior to the third Business Day following the applicable Change in Control Purchase Date) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. All references in this indenture to "interest" shall include Additional Interest, if any. The Company shall pay
 
all Additional Interest, if any, in the same manner on the dates set forth in the Securities and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
The Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, pay interest on overdue amounts at the rate per annum set forth in paragraph 1 of the Securities, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for.
 
SECTION 4.02 .
SEC and Other Reports
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, it shall continue to provide the Trustee with reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such reports shall be provided at the times the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of the same shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
SECTION 4.03 .
Compliance Certificate
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006) an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
SECTION 4.04 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
The Company will maintain an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange for other Securities, purchase or conversion for Common Stock and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Trustee's office specified in Section 12.02 shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid
 
purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01 .
When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets
 
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all its properties and assets to another person, unless:
 
(a) either (1) the Company shall be the continuing corporation or (2) the person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the person which acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company (i) shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and (ii) shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
 
(c) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article 5 and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
 
For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company.
 
The successor person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor person to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company
 
herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Company may have under a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.17, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Subject to Section 9.06, the Company, the Trustee and the successor person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor person and such discharge and release of the Company.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01 .
Events of Default
 
An "" occurs if:
Event of Default
 
(1) the Company defaults in the payment of the Principal Amount or Change in Control Purchase Price on any Security when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon declaration, when due for purchase by the Company or otherwise;
 
(2) the Company defaults in payment of any interest due on the Securities, which default continues for 30 days;
 
(3) the Company fails to comply with any of its agreements in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default (as defined below);
 
(4) (a) the Company fails to make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $50,000,000 and continuance of such failure, or (b) the acceleration of Indebtedness has occurred in an amount in excess of $50,000,000 because of a default with respect to such Indebtedness without such Indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, in the case of (a) above, for a period of 30 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default; provided, however, that if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (a) or (b) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred; or
 
(5) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
 
(A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding;
 
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it;
 
(C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
 
(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
 
(E) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or
 
(F) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian; or
 
(6) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(A) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Company or any Significant Subsidiary insolvent or bankrupt;
 
(B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its property; or (C) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary;
 
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
 
(a) "" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
(b) "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
 
A Default under clause (3) or clause (4) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default (and such Default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (3) or clause (4) above after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "".
Notice of Default
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after it becomes aware of the occurrence thereof, written notice of any event which with the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default under clause (3) or clause (4) above, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
SECTION 6.02 .
Acceleration
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) in respect of the Company) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by Notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the Principal Amount through the date of declaration, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration,
 
such Principal Amount, and such accrued and unpaid interest if any, shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) in respect of the Company occurs and is continuing, the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest if any, on all the Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Securityholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder) may rescind an acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the Principal Amount that have become due solely as a result of acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.07 have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
 
SECTION 6.03 .
Other Remedies
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the Principal Amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest if any, on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of, or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. Except as set forth in Section 2.07 hereof, no remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
 
SECTION 6.04 .
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
Subject to Section 6.02, the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder), may waive an existing or past Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2), or (2) a Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Securityholder affected. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. This Section 6.04 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)1(A) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(A) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
SECTION 6.05 .
Control by Majority
 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Securityholders or could, in reasonable likelihood, impose personal liability upon the Trustee unless the Trustee is offered indemnity satisfactory to it. This Section 6.05 shall be in lieu of
 
Section 316(a)1(B) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(B) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
SECTION 6.06 .
Limitation on Suits
 
A Securityholder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities unless:
 
(1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing;
 
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of security or indemnity; and
 
(5) the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request during such 60-day period.
 
A Securityholder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Securityholder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Securityholder.
 
SECTION 6.07 .
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities, and to convert the Securities in accordance with Article 10, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or the right to convert, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder.
 
SECTION 6.08 .
Collection Suit by Trustee
 
If an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount owing with respect to the Securities and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
 
SECTION 6.09 .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the
 
Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest in respect of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
 
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, or interest and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel or any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
 
(b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
 
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
SECTION 6.10 .
Priorities
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
 
SECOND: to Securityholders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities for the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to such amounts due and payable on the Securities; and
 
THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company.
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Securityholders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
 
SECTION 6.11 .
Undertaking for Costs
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit (other than the Trustee) of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit (other than the Trustee), having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. This Section 6.11 shall be in lieu of Section 315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
SECTION 6.12 .
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest in respect of Securities, or any interest on such amounts, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01 .
Duties of Trustee
 
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(1) the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others; and
 
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificate or opinion furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in case of any such certificates or opinions which by any
 
provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture, but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein.
 
This Section 7.01(b) shall be in lieu of Section 315(a) of the TIA and such Section 315(a) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(1) this paragraph (c) does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01;
 
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05.
 
Subparagraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) shall be in lieu of Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) of the TIA and such Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
(d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this Section 7.01.
 
(e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power or extend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f) Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity hereunder) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
 
SECTION 7.02 .
Rights of Trustee
 
Subject to its duties and responsibilities under the provisions of Section 7.01, and, except as expressly excluded from this Indenture pursuant to said Section 7.01, subject also to its duties and responsibilities under the TIA:
 
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
 
(c) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(d) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred under this Indenture;
 
(e) the Trustee may consult with counsel selected by it and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
 
(f) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby;
 
(g) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors;
 
(h) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, including, without limitation, any Company Request, Company Order or Officers' Certificate, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation or lack thereof;
 
(i) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee received written notice of an event which is in fact such a Default or Event of Default, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture, describes the event with specificity, and alleges that the occurrence of this event is a Default or an Event of Default under this Indenture;
 
(j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall
 
be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
 
(k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
 
(l) the permissive rights of the Trustee enumberated herein shall not be construed as duties.
 
SECTION 7.03 .
Individual Rights of Trustee
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Section 7.10.
 
SECTION 7.04 .
Trustee's Disclaimer
 
The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Securities, it shall not be responsible for any statement in the registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act or in the Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication), or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder.
 
SECTION 7.05 .
Notice of Defaults
 
If a Default occurs and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Securityholder notice of the Default within 90 days after the Trustee gains knowledge of the Default unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice. Except in the case of a Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Securityholders. The second sentence of this Section 7.05 shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA. The Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice of such Default in the manner described in Section 7.02(i).
 
SECTION 7.06 .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
 
(1) Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit to each Securityholder such reports as may be required under Section 313 of the TIA.
 
SECTION 7.07 .
Compensation and Indemnity
 
The Company agrees:
 
(a) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited (to the extent permitted by law) by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
(b) to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses, advances and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
 
(c) to indemnify the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee and their agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, damage, claim, liability, cost or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses and taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee)) reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company or any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the acceptance, exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
 
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, Holders shall have been deemed to have granted to the Trustee a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, or interest, as the case may be, on particular Securities.
 
The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6), its expenses including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel, are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
SECTION 7.08 .
Replacement of Trustee
 
The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company; provided, however, no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 7.08. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
 
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
 
(3) a receiver or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company satisfactory in form and substance to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Securityholders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Company for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Securityholder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
The resignation or removal of a Trustee shall not diminish, impair or terminate its rights to indemnification pursuant to Section 7.07 as they relate to periods prior to such resignation or removal.
 
SECTION 7.09 .
Successor Trustee by Merger
 
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
 
SECTION 7.10 .
Eligibility; Disqualification
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as Trustee and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section 7.10, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.10, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article 7.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01 .
Discharge of Liability on Securities
 
When (i) the Company delivers to the Trustee all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Securities have become due and payable and the Company deposits with the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if the Paying Agent is not the Company or any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of either of them) or the Conversion Agent cash or, if expressly permitted by the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, Common Stock (solely to satisfy the rights of Holders granted in Article 10) or governmental obligations sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate stating that the consideration being given is expressly permitted by the terms of the Securities and that all conditions precedent to the discharge of the Indenture have been complied with by the Company and an Opinion of Counsel that such satisfaction and discharge does not violate the terms of this Indenture or the Securities, and at the cost and expense of the Company. The Trustee shall be allowed to conclusively rely on such Officers' Certificate.
 
SECTION 8.02 .
Repayment to the Company
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person and the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall have no further liability to the Securityholders with respect to such money or securities for that period commencing after the return thereof.
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01 .
Without Consent of Holders
 
The Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder:
 
(1) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency;
 
(2) to comply with Article 5 or Section 10.17;
 
(3) to secure the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(4) to add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Securityholders or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company;
 
(5) to make any change to comply with the TIA, or any amendment thereto, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or as necessary in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act if at any time the Company seeks to register the Securities thereunder; or
 
(6) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
 
No amendment to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture made solely to conform the Indenture to the description of the Securities contained in the offering memorandum pursuant to which the Securities have been initially offered shall be deemed to adversely affect the interests of the Holders.
 
SECTION 9.02 .
With Consent of Holders
 
With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, the Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities. However, without the consent of each Securityholder affected, an amendment to this Indenture or the Securities may not:
 
(1) reduce the Principal Amount, or Change in Control Purchse Price with respect to or any premium or interest on any Security;
 
(2) make any Security payable in money or securities other than that stated in the Security;
 
(3) change the Stated Maturity of any Security;
 
(4) make any change that adversely affects the right of a Holder to convert any Security;
 
(5) make any change that adversely affects the right to require the Company to purchase the Securities in accordance with the terms thereof and this Indenture;
 
(6) impair the right to convert or receive payment with respect to, a Security, or right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment with respect to, or conversion of, the Securities; or
 
(7) make any change in Section 6.04, Section 6.07 or this Section 9.02, except to increase any percentage set forth therein.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
 
After an amendment under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment. Failure to mail such notice or a defect in the notice shall not affect the validity of the amendment.
 
SECTION 9.03 .
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
 
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA.
 
SECTION 9.04 .
Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions
 
Until an amendment, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Security hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, waiver or action becomes effective. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Securityholder.
 
SECTION 9.05 .
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
 
Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities.
 
SECTION 9.06 .
Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures
 
The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
 
SECTION 9.07 .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01 .
Conversion Privilege
 
A Holder of a Security may convert such Security at any time during the period stated in paragraph 6 of the Securities upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in paragraph 6 of the Securities, subject to the provisions of this Article 10. Subject to certain exceptions described in paragraph 6 of the Securities, if a Holder surrenders its Securities for conversion, such holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 of Principal Amount into the Conversion Value which shall be paid as follows:
 
(i) Cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) $1,000 and (B) the Conversion Value (the ""); and
Required Cash Amount
 
(ii) if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, a number of shares of Common Stock (the ""), equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period, subject to the right of the Company to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Remaining Shares as described below.
Remaining Shares
 
On any day prior to the first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the "") and will notify the Securityholder of such Cash Percentage through written notice to the Trustee (the ""). If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, the amount of cash that the Company will deliver in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will equal the product of: (1) the Cash Percentage, (2) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day, and (3) the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for such Trading Day (provided that after the consummation of a Change in Control in which the consideration is comprised entirely of cash, the amount used in this clause (3) will be the cash price per share of Common Stock received by holders of Common Stock in such Change in Control). The number of shares deliverable in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% minus the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the Company will pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such
Cash Percentage
Cash Percentage Notice
 
Security, pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof. The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice through written notice to the Trustee prior to the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
 
A Holder may convert a portion of the Principal Amount of a Security if the portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Security also apply to conversion of a portion of a Security.
 
In the event of a stock split, combination, dividend or any other event resulting in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Sections 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09 or 10.10, during the applicable Conversion Reference Period, appropriate adjustment to the equation for calculating Conversion Value and Remaining Shares shall be made, as determined by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 10.02 .
Conversion Procedure
 
To convert a Security, a Holder must satisfy the requirements in paragraph 6 of the Securities. The Conversion Agent shall, within one (1) Business Day of the Conversion Date, provide notice to the Company as set forth in Section 12.02(b).
 
As promptly as practicable following the end of the Conversion Reference Period applicable to the Securities being converted, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (including cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof). The person in whose name the certificate representing any shares is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the Conversion Date; provided, however, that no surrender of a Security on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive the Net Share Amount upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at the Close of Business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open; such conversion shall be at the Conversion Rate in effect on the date that such Security shall have been surrendered for conversion, as if the stock transfer books of the Company had not been closed. Upon conversion of a Security, such person shall no longer be a Holder of such Security.
 
No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article 10. On conversion of a Security, accrued interest with respect to the converted Security shall not be cancelled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through delivery of the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
 
If the Holder converts more than one Security at the same time, the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) shall be based on the total Principal Amount of the Securities converted.
 
If the last day on which a Security may be converted is a Legal Holiday, the Security may be surrendered on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday.
 
Upon surrender of a Security that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in Principal Amount to the unconverted portion of the Security surrendered.
 
SECTION 10.03 .
Fractional Shares
 
The Company will not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of a Security. Instead, the Company will deliver cash for the current market value of the fractional share. The current market value of a fractional share shall equal the arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days of the Conversion Reference Period, rounded to the nearest whole cent.
 
SECTION 10.04 .
Taxes on Conversion
 
If a Holder converts a Security, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of any shares of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the shares are to be delivered in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
 
SECTION 10.05 .
Company to Provide Stock
 
The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Securities under this Article 10, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the payment of the Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of the Securities.
 
All shares of Common Stock delivered upon payment of any Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of the Securities shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
 
The Company will comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon payment of any Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of Securities, if any, and will list or cause to have quoted such shares of Common Stock on each national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or such other market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
 
SECTION 10.06 .
Adjustment for Change In Capital Stock
 
If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company:
 
(1) pays a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Stock payable in shares of its Common Stock or shares of other Capital Stock;
 
(2) subdivides or combines its shares of Common Stock; or
 
(3) issues by reclassification of its Common Stock any shares of its Capital Stock (other than rights, warrants or options for its Capital Stock),
 
then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holder of a Security thereafter converted may receive the number of shares of Capital Stock of the Company which such Holder would have owned immediately following such action if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to such action.
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and immediately after the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification.
 
If after an adjustment a Holder of a Security upon conversion of such Security may receive shares of two or more classes of Capital Stock of the Company, the Conversion Rate shall thereafter be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of an action taken with respect to any such class of Capital Stock as is contemplated by this Article 10 with respect to the Common Stock, on terms comparable to those applicable to Common Stock in this Article 10.
 
SECTION 10.07 .
Adjustment for Rights Issue
 
If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes any rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Average Closing Price, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
 
 
where:
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
R = the current Conversion Rate.
 
O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 is being applied.
 
N = the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered pursuant to the distribution.
 
P = the offering price per share of the additional shares.
 
M = the Average Closing Price, minus, in the case of (i) a distribution to which Section 10.06(4) applies or (ii) a distribution to which Section 10.08 applies, for which, in each case, (x) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies and (y) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the first public announcement for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies) of the
 
(1) Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.06(4) distribution and
 
(2) assets of the Company or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.08 distribution.
 
The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.07.
 
In the event the Company makes a distribution pursuant to this Section 10.07 which has a per share value equal to more than 15% of the Closing Price of shares of Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution, the Company will be required to give notice to the holders of Securities at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date, as defined below, for such distribution.
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the rights, warrants or options to which this Section 10.07 applies. If all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such rights, warrants or options have not been issued when such rights, warrants or options expire, then the Conversion Rate shall promptly be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustment upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or options been made on the basis of the actual number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such rights, warrants or options.
 
No adjustment shall be made under this Section 10.07 if the application of the formula stated above in this Section 10.07 would result in a value of R' that is equal to or less than the value of R.
 
SECTION 10.08 .
Adjustment for Other Distributions
 
(a) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock any of its assets (including shares of any Subsidiary or business unit of the Company, but excluding distributions of Capital Stock or equity interests referred to in Section 10.08(b)), or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (including securities or cash, but excluding (x) distributions of Capital Stock referred to in Section 10.06 and distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section 10.07 and (y) cash dividends or other cash distributions referred to in Section 10.09, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 10.08(c), in accordance with the formula:
 
 
where:
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
R = the current Conversion Rate.
 
M = the Average Closing Price, minus, in the case of a distribution to which Section 10.06(4) applies, for which (i) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies and (ii) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies) of any Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.06(4) distribution.
 
F = the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies) of the assets, securities, rights, warrants or options to be distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) is being applied (including, in the case of cash dividends or other cash distributions giving rise to an adjustment, all such cash distributed concurrently).
 
The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.08(a).
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies.
 
(b) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock consisting of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
 
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
R = the current Conversion Rate.
 
M = the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the date on which "ex-dividend trading" commences for such dividend or distribution on the principal United States exchange or market which such securities are then listed or quoted (the "").
Ex-Dividend Date
 
F = the fair market value of the securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock for which this Section 10.08(b) shall mean the number of securities distributed in
 
respect of each share of Common Stock multiplied by the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of those securities distributed for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date.
 
"" of Capital Stock or any similar equity interest on any date means the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated; provided that if on any date such units have not traded on a "" basis, the Post-Distribution Price shall be the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated. In the absence of such quotation, the Company shall be entitled to determine the Post-Distribution Price on the basis of such quotations which reflect the post-distribution value of the Capital Stock or equity interests as it considers appropriate.
Post-Distribution Price
when issued
when issued
regular way
 
(c) In the event that, with respect to any distribution to which Section 10.08(a) would otherwise apply, the difference "" as defined in the formula set forth in Section 10.08(a) is less than $1.00 or "" is equal to or greater than "", then the adjustment provided by Section 10.08(a) shall not be made and in lieu thereof the provisions of Section 10.16 shall apply to such distribution.
M-F
F
M
 
(d) In the event the Company makes a distribution pursuant to this Section 10.08 which has a per share value equal to more than 15% of the Closing Price of shares of Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution, the Company will be required to give notice to the holders of Securities at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date, as defined below, for such distribution.
 
SECTION 10.09 .
Adjustment for Cash Dividends
 
(a) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock any cash (excluding any dividend or distribution in connection with the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 10.09(b) in accordance with the formula:
 
 
where,
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate;
 
R = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Time of Determination;
 
M = the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days prior to the Trading Day immediately preceding the Time of Determination; and
 
C = the amount in cash per share the Company distributes to holders of the Common Stock (and for which no adjustment has been made).
 
SECTION 10.10 .
Adjustment for Tender Offer
 
If, after the Issue Date, the Company makes a payment of cash or other consideration to holders of Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, for the Common Stock, and the value of the sum of (i) the aggregate cash and other consideration paid for such Common Stock, and (ii) the aggregate fair market value of any consideration paid for the purchase of Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, within the twelve (12) months preceding the date of purchase of such shares of Common Stock in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.10 previously has been made, expressed as an amount per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer, exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the last time (the "") on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to the tender or exchange offer, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
Expiration Time
 
 
where,
 
R = the Conversion Rate in effect on the Expiration Time;
 
R' = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Expiration Time;
 
F = the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration paid or payable for shares of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Time (the "");
Purchased Shares
 
O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Expiration Time less any Purchased Shares;
 
O' = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Expiration Time, including any Purchased Shares; and
 
P = the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time.
 
Such increase (if any) shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Expiration Time. In the event that the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender offer, but the Company is prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. If the application of this Section 10.10 to any tender or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender or exchange offer under this Section 10.10.
 
SECTION 10.11 .
Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Change in Control Transactions
 
If, after the Issue Date, a Change in Control occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Securities in connection with such Change in Control, the Company will increase the Applicable Conversion Rate for the Securities surrendered by conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the ""), as described in this Section 10.11. A conversion of Securities will be deemed for the purposes of this Section 10.11 to be "" a Change in Control transaction if the notice of conversion of the Securities is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the date that is ten Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Change in Control, up to and including the Trading Day prior to the related purchase date.
Make-Whole Shares
in connection with
 
The number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by reference to the table below and is based on the date which such Change in Control transaction becomes effective (the "") and the price (the "") paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction. If the holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Change in Control transaction, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive Trading Days up to but excluding the Change in Control Effective Date.
Change in Control Effective Date
Stock Price
 
The Stock Prices set forth in the first column of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Applicable Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Applicable Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
 
 
If the exact Stock Prices and effective dates are not set forth in the table, then: (i) if the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the effective date is between two dates in the table, the Make-Whole Shares issued upon conversion of the Securities will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates in the table, based on a 365-day year, (ii) if the Stock Price exceeds $200.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities; and (iii) if the Stock Price is less than $71.93 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities.
 
SECTION 10.12 .
Adjustment to Conversion Rate After a Public Acquirer Change in Control
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.11, if, following the Issue Date, a Change in Control constituting a Public Acquirer Change in Control (as defined below) occurs, the Company may, in lieu of issuing additional shares of Common Stock upon conversion, elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and the related conversion obligation such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change in Control (the ""), Holders shall be entitled to convert their Securities into a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock (as defined below), still subject to the arrangements for payment upon conversion otherwise applicable pursuant to this Article 10, by adjusting the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Public Acquirer Change in Control by a fraction (i) the numerator of which will be (a) in the case of a share exchange, consideration,
Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date
 
merger or binding share exchange pursuant to which the Common Stock is converted into cash, securities, or other property, the average value of all cash and any other consideration (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company) paid or payable per share of Common Stock or (b) in the case of any other Public Acquirer Change in Control, the average of the last reported sale prices of our Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days prior to but excluding the Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date; and (ii) the denominator of which will be the average of the last reported sales prices of the Public Acquirer Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date.
 
A "" means a Change in Control in which the acquirer has a class of common stock traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such change in control (the ""). If an acquirer does not itself have a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, it will be deemed to have "public acquirer common stock" if a corporation that directly or indirectly owns at least a majority of the acquirer has a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, in such case, all references to public acquirer common stock shall refer to such class of common stock. Majority owned for these purposes means having "beneficial ownership" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act of more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of the respective entity's capital stock that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Public Acquirer Change in Control
Public Acquirer Common Stock
 
Upon a Public Acquirer Change in Control, at the election of the Company, Holders may convert their Securities at the adjusted Conversion Rate described in the second preceding paragraph in this Section 10.12 but shall not be entitled to receive additional shares upon conversion as described herein. The Company shall be required to notify Holders of its election in its notice to holders of such Public Acquirer Change in Control pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
SECTION 10.13 .
When Adjustment May Be Deferred
 
No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate. Any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate shall be carried forward and taken into account in determining any subsequent adjustment. In addition, the Company shall make and pay any carry forward adjustments not otherwise effected on each anniversary of the Issue Date, upon conversion of any Note, upon required purchase of the notes pursuant to Section 3.01, and five business days prior to the Stated Maturity.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 10, in no event will the Conversion Rate exceed 13.9024 shares per $1,000 Principal Amount of the Securities, as adjusted, other than on account of Sections 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.11, and 10.12.
 
All calculations under this Article 10 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/1,000th of a share, as the case may be (with one-half cent and 5/10,000ths of a share being rounded upward).
 
SECTION 10.14 .
When No Adjustment Required
 
No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10 or 10.17 if Securityholders are to participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction. Such participation by Securityholders may include participation upon conversion provided that an adjustment shall be made at such time as the Securityholders are no longer entitled to participate.
 
No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest.
 
No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock.
 
To the extent the Securities become convertible pursuant to this Article 10 into cash, no adjustment need be made thereafter as to the cash. Interest will not accrue on the cash.
 
SECTION 10.15 .
Notice of Adjustment
 
Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Securityholders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice and a certificate from the Company's independent public accountants briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
 
SECTION 10.16 .
Notice of Certain Transactions
 
If:
 
(1) the Company takes any action that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10 or 10.11 (unless no adjustment is to occur pursuant to Section 10.14); or
 
(2) the Company takes any action that would require a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.17; or
 
(3) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
 
then the Company shall mail to Securityholders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice stating the proposed record date for a dividend or distribution or the proposed effective date of a subdivision, combination, reclassification, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer, liquidation or dissolution. The Company shall file and mail the notice at least 15 days before such date. Failure to file or mail the notice or any defect in it shall not affect the validity of the transaction.
 
SECTION 10.17 .
Reorganization of Company; Special Distributions
 
If the Company is a party to a transaction subject to Section 5.01 (other than a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in a transaction in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction do not receive securities, cash or other assets of the Company or any other person) or a merger or binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, the person obligated to deliver securities, cash or other assets upon conversion of Securities shall enter into a supplemental indenture. If the issuer of securities deliverable upon conversion of Securities is an Affiliate of the successor Company, that issuer shall join in the supplemental indenture.
 
The supplemental indenture shall provide that after the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Net Share Amount will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if such transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article 10. The supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practical to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. The successor Company shall mail to Securityholders a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture.
 
If this Section applies, neither Section 10.06 nor 10.07 applies. If the Company makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock of any of its assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company that, but for the provisions of Section 10.08(c), would otherwise result in an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.08, then, from and after the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution, a Holder of a Security that converts such Security in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture shall upon such conversion be entitled to receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible, the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that such Holder would have received if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution.
 
SECTION 10.18 .
Company Determination Final
 
Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to Section 10.03, 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10, 10.13, 10.14, 10.17 or 10.20 is conclusive.
 
SECTION 10.19 .
Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer
 
The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee has no duty to
 
determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 10.17 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 10. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 10.19 as the Trustee.
 
SECTION 10.20 .
Simultaneous Adjustments
 
In the event that this Article 10 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 10.06(4), 10.07, 10.08 or 10.09, and the record dates for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of Section 10.06, second, the provisions of Section 10.08, third, the provisions of Section 10.09 and, fourth, the provisions of 10.07.
 
SECTION 10.21 .
Successive Adjustments
 
After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 10, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
 
SECTION 10.22 .
Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued Upon Conversion
 
Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities pursuant to this Article 10 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights (""), if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of the Company's Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2000, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent, or any successor shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended form time to time (in each case, a ""). Provided that such Shareholders Rights Plan requires that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities (or cash in lieu thereof) at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights be entitled to receive such Rights, then, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this Article 10, there shall not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate as a result of the issuance of Rights, the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights, the exercise or redemption of such Rights in accordance with any Shareholders Rights Plan, or the termination or invalidation of such Rights.
Rights
Shareholders Rights Plan
 
SECTION 10.23 .
Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate
 
If the Company pays withholding taxes on behalf of a Holder as a result of an adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the Company may, at its option, set off such payments against payments of cash and Common Stock on the Securities.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 11.01 .
Interest Payments
 
Interest on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any applicable Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the person in whose name that Security is registered at the Close of Business on the Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of interest payable in cash on any Security shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States, if the Trustee shall have received proper wire transfer instructions from such payee not later than the related Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, or, if no such instructions have been received by check drawn on a bank in the City of New York mailed to the payee at its address set forth on the Registrar's books. In the case of a permanent Global Security, interest payable on any applicable payment date will be paid to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such permanent Global Security held for its account by Cede & Co. for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such permanent Global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
 
SECTION 11.02 .
Defaulted Interest
 
Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Securities, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, within 30 days following any applicable payment date (herein called "", which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Securities), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below. All such Defaulted Interest shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date.
Defaulted Interest
 
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the Close of Business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment (which shall not be less than 20 days after such notice is received by the Trustee), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment (the ""). The Trustee shall promptly notify
Special Record Date
 
the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities at his address as it appears on the list of Securityholders maintained pursuant to Section 2.05 not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the Close of Business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
 
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
SECTION 11.03 .
Interest Rights Preserved
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 11 and Section 2.06, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
 
 
SECTION 12.01 .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
 
SECTION 12.02 .
Notices; Address of Agency
 
(a) Other than as set forth in Section 10.01, any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers:
 
if to the Company:
 
Amgen Inc.
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Telephone No.: (805) 447-1000
Facsimile No.: (805) 449-2863
Attention: Treasurer
 
with a copy to:
 
Latham & Watkins LLP
633 West Fifth Street
Suite 4000
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Telephone No.: (213) 485-1234
Facsimile No.: (213) 891-8763
Attention: Gregory Rodgers, Esq.
 
if to the Trustee:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
4 New York Plaza, 15
th
Floor
New York, NY 10004
Telephone No.: (212) 623-5233
Facsimile No.: (212) 623-6215
Attention: Carol Ng, Vice President
 
with a copy to:
 
Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn LLP
410 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Telephone No.: (212) 326-0820
Facsimile No.: (212) 798-6909
Attention: Michael Fruchter, Esq.
 
The Company or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
Any notice or communication given to a Securityholder shall be mailed to the Securityholder, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Securityholder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
 
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders. If a notice or communication
 
is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee.
 
If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
 
(b) Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication to be provided in connection with Section 10.12 shall be in writing and delivered in person or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers or via e-mail to the account or accounts specified by the Company by written notice to the Trustee:
 
if to the Company:
 
Amgen Inc.
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Telephone No.: (805) 447-1000
Facsimile No.: (805) 449-2863
Attention: Treasurer
 
with a copy to:
 
Latham & Watkins LLP
633 West Fifth Street Suite 4000
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Telephone No.: (213) 485-1234
Facsimile No.: (213) 891-8763
Attention: Gregory Rodgers, Esq.
 
with a copy to:
 
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Telephone No.: 44 207 995 3769
Facsimile No.: 44 207 995 2004
Attention: Manager, Fixed Income Settlements
 
and
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited
c/o Morgan Stanley Bank
One New York Plaza, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10004
Attention: Fred Gonfiantini
Facsimile No.: (212) 507-0724
Telephone No.: (212) 276-2427
 
Any notice party set forth in this Section 12.02(b) by notice given to the others in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications, including e-mail addresses.
 
SECTION 12.03 .
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
 
Securityholders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
 
SECTION 12.04 .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
(1) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
 
(2) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
 
SECTION 12.05 .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
 
Unless the Trustee agrees, in its sole discretion, to accept a different form or format, each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
(1) a statement that each person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition;
 
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based;
 
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
(4) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
 
SECTION 12.06 .
Separability Clause
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
SECTION 12.07 .
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Securityholders. The Registrar, Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
 
SECTION 12.08 .
Calculations
 
The calculation of the Conversion Value, Conversion Date, Volume Weighted Average Price, Conversion Reference Period, Change in Control Purchase Price, Conversion Rate, Closing Price of the Common Stock, Required Cash Amount, Trading Price, the number of shares, if any, to be issued upon conversion and each other calculation to be made hereunder shall be the obligation of the Company. All calculations made by the Company as contemplated pursuant to this Section 12.08 shall be in good faith and final and binding on the Company and the Holders absent manifest error. The Company will provide a schedule of the calculations to the Trustee and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the calculations without independent verification.
 
SECTION 12.09 .
Legal Holidays
 
A "" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Securities, interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
 
SECTION 12.10 .
Governing Law
 
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES.
 
SECTION 12.11 .
No Recourse Against Others
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
SECTION 12.12 .
Successors
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
 
SECTION 12.13 .
Multiple Originals
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
1
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
1
 
THE NOTES AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.
2
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE
 
 
ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
2
 
 
 
 
AMGEN INC., a Delaware Corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the Principal Amount of on February 1, 2011.
 
This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 0.125% per annum. This Security is convertible as specified on the other side of this Security.
 
Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 0.125% per annum. Interest on this Security shall accrue from the Issue Date, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2006, to the holders of record of Securities at the Close of Business on the January 15 or July 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Each payment of cash interest on this Security shall include interest accrued for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, the scheduled original Issue Date) through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date or purchase date. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest shall be calculated using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest shall cease to accrue on this Security upon its Stated Maturity, conversion or purchase by the Company at the option of the Holder upon a Change in Control in accordance with paragraph 5 hereof.
 
If the Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration pursuant to Section 6.02 of the Indenture, upon the date set for payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price pursuant to paragraph 5 hereof or upon the Stated Maturity of this Security) or if interest due hereon or any portion of such interest is not paid when due in accordance with paragraph 5 or 7 hereof, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate of 1.125% per annum, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date.
 
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of Change in Control Purchase Prices and at Stated Maturity to Holders who surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Securities. The Company will pay any cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
 
Initially, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association (the ""), will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar. The Company
Trustee
 
may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business.
 
 
The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of February 17, 2006 (the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture for a statement of those terms.
Indenture
TIA
 
The Securities are senior unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $2,500,000,000 aggregate Principal Amount (subject to Section 2.07 of the Indenture). The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured.
 
 
At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to purchase the Securities held by such Holder no later than 35 Business Days after the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company for a Change in Control Purchase Price equal to the Principal Amount of the Securities to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Change in Control Purchase Date, which Change in Control Purchase Price shall be paid in cash.
 
In addition to the Change in Control Purchase Price payable with respect to all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Holders of such Securities (or portions thereof) shall be entitled to receive accrued and unpaid interest with respect thereto, which shall be paid in cash on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of such Securities to the Paying Agent pursuant to the Indenture.
 
Holders have the right to withdraw any Change in Control Purchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
 
If cash (and/or securities if permitted under the Indenture) sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price, of, together with any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to, all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, interest shall cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest upon surrender of such Security).
 
 
A Holder of a Security may convert such Security into cash and, at the option of the Company, shares of Common Stock of the Company before the Close of Business on February 1, 2011, if at least one of the following conditions is satisfied:
 
(a) during any calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006, and only during such calendar quarter, if, as of the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the Closing Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of such preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price per share on that 30
th
Trading Day on the last day of such preceding calendar quarter (the ""). The Conversion Agent will determine on the Company's behalf at the beginning of each calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006 through the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2010, whether the Securities are convertible as a result of the price of the Common Stock and notify the Company and the Trustee;
Conversion Trigger Price
 
(b) the Company elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock (i) rights or warrants entitling them to subscribe for or purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution, or (ii) cash, debt securities (or other evidence of Indebtedness) or other assets (excluding dividends or distributions described in Sections 10.06(1), 10.06(2) and 10.06(3) of the Indenture, which distribution, together with all other distributions within the preceding twelve months, has a per share value exceeding 15% of the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution; or
 
(c) in the event the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other assets, at any time from or after the date which is 15 days prior to the anticipated effective time of the transaction until 35 days after the actual date of such transaction (or, if the transaction also constitutes a change in control, until the Change in Control Purchase Date). After the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Conversion Value will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if the transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. The Company will notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction (but in no event less than 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction).
 
If the Company makes a distribution described in subsection (a) or (b), the Company must notify Holders at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion at any time until the earlier of the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date or the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place, even if the Securities are not convertible at that time. No adjustment to the ability of Holders to convert will be made if Holders are entitled to participate in the distribution without conversion.
 
If the transaction also constitutes a "," the Holder can require the Company to purchase all or a portion of its Securities described in paragraph 5.
Change in Control
 
A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Change in Control Purchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to purchase such Security may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
The Initial Conversion Rate is 12.5247 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 Principal Amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. The Company will deliver cash or a check in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock.
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Securityholders may surrender the Securities for conversion at any time on or after January 1, 2011, until the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
 
Accrued and unpaid interest will not be paid in cash on Securities that are converted but will be paid in the manner provided in the following paragraph; provided, however, that Securities surrendered for conversion during the period, in the case of interest, from the Close of Business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest Payment Date, shall be entitled to receive such semiannual interest payable on such Securities on the corresponding Interest Payment Date and Securities surrendered for conversion during such periods must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest with respect thereto that the registered Holder is to receive; provided that no such payment need be made (i) in connection with any conversion following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the final Interest Payment Date; (ii) if the Company has specified a Change in Control Purchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date; or (iii) to the extent of Defaulted Interest, if any Defaulted Interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Security.
 
A Holder may convert a portion of a Security if the Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on the Common Stock except as provided in the Indenture. On conversion of a Security, a Securityholder will not receive, except as described herein, any cash payment representing accrued interest. Instead, accrued interest will be deemed paid by the shares of Common Stock (or any cash in lieu thereof) received by the Securityholder on conversion. Delivery to the holder of the full number of shares of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible (or any cash in lieu thereof), together with any cash payment, will be deemed to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay (i) the Principal Amount of the Security and (ii) accrued
 
and unpaid interest, and accrued interest with respect to the converted Security shall not be cancelled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full.
 
The Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for accrued interest.
 
To convert a Security that is represented by a Global Security, a Holder must convert by book-entry transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of the DTC. To convert a Security that is represented by a Certificated Security, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice below and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Conversion Agent, the Company or the Trustee and (4) pay all transfer or similar tax, if required.
 
The Conversion Rate will be adjusted for dividends or distributions on Common Stock payable in Common Stock or other Capital Stock; subdivisions, combinations or certain reclassifications of Common Stock; distributions to all holders of Common Stock of certain rights to purchase Common Stock for a period expiring within 60 days of the record date for such distribution at less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock at the Time of Determination; distributions to such holders of assets (including shares of Capital Stock of a Subsidiary) or debt securities of the Company or certain rights to purchase securities of the Company; cash dividends or cash distributions; and distributions in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer of the Common Stock. However, no adjustment need be made if Securityholders may participate in the transaction or in certain other cases. The Company from time to time may voluntarily increase the Conversion Rate.
 
 
Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Securities, any Defaulted Interest on any Security shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company as provided for in Section 11.02 of the Indenture.
 
 
The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of Principal Amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not register the transfer or exchange of any Securities in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be purchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be purchased).
 
 
The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes.
 
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property laws. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
 
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Securityholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to comply with Article 5 or Section 10.17 of the Indenture, to secure the Company's obligations under this Security or to add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Securityholders or to surrender any right or power conferred, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and any amendment thereof, or as necessary in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act or to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holders.
 
 
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) default in the payment of interest which becomes due and payable upon exercise by the Company of its option provided for in paragraph 6(a) hereof which default in any such case continues for 30 days; (ii) default in payment of the Principal Amount or Change in Control Purchase Price in respect of the Securities when the same becomes due and payable; (iii) failure by the Company to comply with other agreements in the Indenture or the Securities, subject to notice and lapse of time; (iv) (a) failure of the Company to make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $50.0 million, or (b) the acceleration of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $50.0 million because of a default with respect to such Indebtedness without such Indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, subject to notice and lapse of time; provided, however, that if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (a) or (b) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred; and (v) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, may declare the Principal Amount through the date of such declaration, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration, on all the Securities to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in the Principal Amount on the
 
Securities, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the occurrence of such event, becoming due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
 
Securityholders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Securityholders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of amounts specified in clause (i) or (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
 
This Security shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security.
 
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
 
THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.
 
The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to:
 
Amgen Inc.
 
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Telephone No.: (805) 447-1000
Facsimile No.: (805) 499-8011
Attention: Treasurer
 
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
 
and irrevocably appoint
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                        
 
 
To convert this Security into Common Stock of the Company, check the box: 
 
To convert only part of this Security, state the Principal Amount to be converted (which must be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000):
 
$
                                                                     
 
If you want the stock certificate made out in another person's name, fill in the form below:
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Insert other person's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Print or type other person's name, address and zip code)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means Not Applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of February 17, 2006 between AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee ("").
Company
Trustee
 
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the ""):
Securities
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01 .
Definitions
 
"" means all additional interest owing on the Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
 
"" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
"" means the Conversion Rate on any Trading Day, as adjusted in accordance with Article 10. For purposes of determining the Conversion Value, the Applicable Conversion Rate means the Conversion Rate on the Conversion Date.
Applicable Conversion Rate
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
Applicable Procedures
 
"" means (1) with respect to distributions of rights, warrants or options, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution and (2) with respect to other distributions, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the Time of Determination.
Average Closing Price
 
In the event that the Ex-Dividend Time (or in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification, the effective date with respect thereto) with respect to a dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification to which Section 10.06(1), (2), (3) or (5) applies occurs during the period applicable for calculating "" pursuant to the definition in the preceding sentence, "" shall be calculated for such period in a manner determined by the Board of Directors to reflect the impact of such dividend,
Average Closing Price
Average Closing Price
 
subdivision, combination or reclassification on the Closing Price of the Common Stock during such period.
 
"" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
 
"" means any weekday that is not a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated to close.
Business Day
 
"" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation.
Capital Stock
 
"" means Securities that are substantially in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Certificated Securities
 
"" means 5:00 p.m. (New York City time).
Close of Business
 
"" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing per share sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and average ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, (i) as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated, or (ii) if such bid and ask prices are not reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated, in a manner to be determined by the Company on the basis of such quotation as the Company considers appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion.
Closing Price
 
"" means the shares of common stock, $0.0001 par value, of the Company as it exists on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which the Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
 
"" means the party named as the "" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Company
Company
 
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers.
Company Request
Company Order
 
"" means the date on which the Holder of the Security has complied with all requirements under this Indenture to convert such Security.
Conversion Date
 
"" per share of Common Stock as of any day means the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the then Applicable Conversion Rate.
Conversion Price
 
"" means the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a Security per $1,000 principal amount thereof, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 10.
Conversion Rate
 
"" means (a) for Securities that are converted during the period beginning on the 30
Conversion Reference Period
th
day prior to the Maturity Date, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Maturity Date and (b) in all other instances, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
 
"" means the amount equal to the product of (a) the Applicable Conversion Rate multiplied by (b) the average of the Volume Weighted Average Price on each of the Trading Days during the Conversion Reference Period.
Conversion Value
 
"" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 4 New York Plaza, 15
Corporate Trust Office
th
Floor, New York, NY 10004, Attention: Worldwide Securities Services, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
 
"" means, for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 Principal Amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
Daily Share Amounts
 
 
 
"" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means DTC or the nominee thereof, or any successor thereto.
Depositary
 
"" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Global Securities
 
"" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
Securityholder
 
"" means with respect to the Company at any date, without duplication, obligations (other than nonrecourse obligations) for borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments.
Indebtedness
 
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof.
Indenture
 
"" means 12.5814 shares of Common Stock per Principal Amount of $1,000, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 10.
Initial Conversion Rate
 
"" means each date specified as such in paragraph 1 of the Securities.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security.
Issue Date
 
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Nasdaq National Market or otherwise) in Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
Market Disruption Event
 
"" means the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
 
"" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers, and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers executing the Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 4.03 shall be the principal executive officer, financial officer or accounting officer of the Company.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company or the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" or "" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
person
 
"" of a Security means the Principal Amount as set forth on the face of the Security.
Principal Amount
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.07.
Protected Purchaser
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated on behalf of the Initial Purchasers.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to any Interest Payment Date, the January 15 or the July 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Regular Record Date
 
"" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee having direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means a Global Security that is a Restricted Security.
Restricted Global Security
 
"" means a Security required to bear the Legend.
Restricted Security
 
"" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any successor to such Rule.
Rule 144
 
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act or any successor to such Rule.
Rule 144A
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means any of the Company's 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture.
Securities
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Securityholder
Holder
 
"" means a "", as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933.
Significant Subsidiary
significant subsidiary
 
"" means for the payment of any Defaulted Interest, the date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.02.
Special Record Date
 
"," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the Principal Amount of such Security or such installment of interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means (i) a corporation, a majority of whose Voting Stock is, at the date of determination, directly or indirectly owned by the Company, by one or more Subsidiaries
Subsidiary
 
of the Company, or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, (ii) a partnership in which the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, holds a majority interest in the equity capital or profits of such partnership, or (iii) any other person (other than a corporation or a partnership) in which the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company, or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, has (x) at least a majority ownership interest or (y) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the directors or trustees, as the case may be, or other governing body of such person.
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, provided, however, that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
 
"" means the time and date of the earlier of (i) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants or options or a distribution, in each case, to which Sections 10.07, 10.08 or 10.10 applies and (ii) the time ("Ex-Dividend Time") immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such rights, warrants or options or distribution on the Nasdaq National Market or such other national or regional exchange or market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
Time of Determination
 
"" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the Nasdaq National Market or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed, is open for trading or, if the Common Stock is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any business day. A Trading Day only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
Trading Day
 
"" means the party named as the "" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Trustee
Trustee
 
"" means the price per share of the Common Stock on any Trading Day as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page AMGN <equity> VAP in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time), on such Trading Day; or, if such price is not available, the market value per share of the Common Stock on such day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company.
Volume Weighted Average Price
 
"" means, with respect to any corporation, association, company or business trust, stock or other securities of the class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such corporation, association, company or business trust, provided that, for the purposes hereof, stock or other securities which carry only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered Voting Stock whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting Stock
 
SECTION 1.02 Other Definitions.
 
 
SECTION 1.03 .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"" means the SEC.
Commission
 
"" means the Securities.
indenture securities
 
"" means a Securityholder.
indenture security holder
 
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
 
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
"" on the indenture securities means the Company.
obligor
 
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
 
SECTION 1.04 .
Rules of Construction
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time;
 
(3) "" is not exclusive;
or
 
(4) "" means including, without limitation; and
including
 
(5) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
 
SECTION 1.05 .
Acts of Holders
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments (which may take the form of an electronic writing or messaging or otherwise be in accordance with customary procedures of the Depositary or the Trustee) of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing (which may be in electronic form); and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such
 
instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent (either of which may be in electronic form) shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
Act
 
(a) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution (or electronic delivery) or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing or delivering such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof (or electronic delivery). Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing (electronic or otherwise), or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
 
(b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register for the Securities maintained by the Registrar.
 
(c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
 
(d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the Close of Business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01 .
Form and Dating
 
The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A, which is a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Securities are being offered and sold by the Company pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated February 14, 2006 (the "") between the Company and the several purchasers named in Schedule A thereto (collectively, the ""), in transactions exempt from, or not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
Purchase Agreement
Initial Purchasers
 
(a) Restricted Global Securities. All of the Securities are initially being offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A (collectively, "" or individually, each a "") in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Restricted Global Securities, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the securities represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the depositary, The Depository Trust Company ("", and such depositary, or any successor thereto, being hereinafter referred to as the "Depositary"), and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. (or any successor thereto), for the accounts of participants in the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.
QIBS
QIB
DTC
 
(b) Global Securities in General. Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions and conversions. Except as provided in this Section 2.01, 2.06 or 2.12, owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Certificated Securities.
 
Any adjustment of the aggregate Principal Amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 hereof and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary, subject in each case to compliance with Applicable Procedures.
 
(c) Book-Entry Provisions. This Section 2.01(c) shall apply only to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary.
 
The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.01(c), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall bear legends substantially to the following effect:
 
"UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF."
 
(d) Certificated Securities. Securities not issued as interests in the Global Securities will be issued in certificated form substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.
 
SECTION 2.02 .
Execution and Authentication
 
(a) The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer. The signature of the Officer on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
 
(b) Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of an individual who was at the time of the execution of the Securities the proper Officer of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office at the date of authentication of such Securities.
 
(c) No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee, and such certificate upon any Security
 
shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
(d) Subject to the terms of Section 12.04 and 12.05 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver Securities for original issue in an aggregate Principal Amount of $2,500,000,000 (subject to Section 2.07 hereof) upon a Company Order without any further action by the Company. The aggregate Principal Amount of Securities outstanding at any time may not exceed the amount set forth in the foregoing sentence, except as provided in Section 2.07.
 
(e) The Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof.
 
(f) The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any securities under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not be lawfully taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders.
 
SECTION 2.03 .
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
 
(a) The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange for other Securities (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment ("") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion into Common Stock (""). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their registration of transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05.
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
 
(b) The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or co-registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent (other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
 
(c) The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
 
SECTION 2.04 .
Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, by no later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Security, the Company shall
 
deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or Common Stock sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all money and Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and Common Stock so held in trust. If the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money or Common Stock.
 
SECTION 2.05 .
Securityholder Lists
 
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on June 1 and December 1 a listing of Securityholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Securityholders.
 
SECTION 2.06 .
Transfer and Conversion
 
Subject to Section 2.12 hereof,
 
(a) upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.03, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the registration of transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Securityholder requesting such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
At the option of the Holder, Certificated Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon
 
receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, any Securities in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased).
 
(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.12 and this Section 2.06(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole, or in part, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee.
 
(c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities.
 
(d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon registration of transfer or exchange of Securities.
 
(e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made.
 
SECTION 2.07 .
Replacement Securities
 
(a) If (i) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (ii) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser within the meaning of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time in the State of New York (a ""), the Company shall execute and upon a Company Request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and Principal Amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Protected Purchaser
 
(b) In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be.
 
(c) Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
 
charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
(d) Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
 
(e) The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
SECTION 2.08 .
Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action
 
(a) Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those paid pursuant to Section 2.07 and delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.08 as not outstanding. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Principal Amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Articles 6 and 9).
 
(b) If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, the replaced Security ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to each of them that the replaced Security is held by a Protected Purchaser.
 
(c) If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Change in Control Purchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Securities shall cease to accrue whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent.
 
(d) If a Security is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the Conversion Date, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and interest shall cease to accrue on such Security.
 
SECTION 2.09 .
Temporary Securities
 
(a) Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
(b) If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.03, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like Principal Amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
 
SECTION 2.10 .
Cancellation
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase by the Company pursuant to Article 3, conversion or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure.
 
SECTION 2.11 .
Persons Deemed Owners
 
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Security or the payment of any Change in Control Purchase Price in respect thereof, and interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
SECTION 2.12 .
Legend; Additional Transfer and Exchange Requirements
 
(a) If Securities are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Securities subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends set forth in Section 2.12(f) (collectively, the ""), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Security, the Securities so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an Opinion of Counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Securities are not "" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act; provided that no such evidence need be supplied in connection with the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale. Upon (1) provision of such satisfactory evidence if requested, or (2) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, upon Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver a Security that does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Security and the Security is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated.
Legend
restricted
 
(b) Subject to Section 2.12(c)(i) and in compliance with Section 2.12(d), every Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend. Whenever any Restricted Security other than a Restricted Global Security is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or in exchange for a Security registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Security must be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Security, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Security not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, (A) transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(c)(i), (B) transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(c)(ii) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.06 and Section 2.12(c)(iii) and (iv) below.
 
(i) Transfer of Global Security. A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; provided that this clause (i) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Securities unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 2.12(c)(i) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 2.12(c).
 
(ii) Restrictions on Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security. A beneficial interest in a Global Security may not be exchanged for a Certificated Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. Upon receipt by the Trustee of a request for transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security in accordance with Applicable Procedures for a Certificated Security in the form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with written instructions to the Trustee to make, or direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such decrease, then the Trustee shall cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be decreased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Security to be issued, shall authenticate and deliver such Certificated Security and shall debit or cause to be debited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Security so issued.
 
(iii) Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities. When Certificated Securities are presented to the Registrar with a request:
 
 
 
the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met; provided, however, that the Certificated Securities surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
(iv) Restrictions on Transfer of a Certificated Security for a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security. A Certificated Security may not be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below.
 
Upon receipt by the Trustee of a Certificated Security, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with written instructions directing the Trustee to make, or to direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect an increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such increase, then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Security and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be increased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Security to be exchanged,
 
and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Security so cancelled. If no Global Securities are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate a new Global Security in the appropriate Principal Amount.
 
(d) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Security shall cease and terminate when such Security has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision). Any Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Security for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar and addressed to the Company and the Registrar, to the effect that the transfer of such Security has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Security, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the offer and sale of the Securities under the Securities Act. The Trustee or the Registrar shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel.
 
As used in Sections 2.12(b) and (d), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, hypothecation or other disposition of any Security
 
(e) The provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities:
 
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, except as provided in Section 2.12(c)(ii), a Global Security shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, provided that a Global Security may be exchanged for Securities registered in the names of any person designated by the Depositary in the event that (i) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or such Depositary has ceased to be a "" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (ii) the Company decides to discontinue use of the system of book-entry transfer through DTC (or any successor depositary); or (iii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (iii) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Security issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security; provided that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security.
clearing agency
 
(2) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate Principal Amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the Principal Amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof.
 
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause (5) below, the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members (as defined below) and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
 
(4) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (1) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons.
 
(5) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security.
Agent Members
 
(f) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any stock certificate representing Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Common Stock has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or such Common Stock has been issued upon conversion of Securities that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent:
 
THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY PRIOR TO THE DATE THAT IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH AMGEN INC. (THE "COMPANY") OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THE COMMON STOCK EVIDENCED HEREBY) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (C) PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRANSFER AGENT'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (C) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS CERTIFICATE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRANSFER AGENT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
 
Any such Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section.
 
(g) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any certificate representing any Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Security has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent:
 
THE NOTES AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF
 
1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
 
Any such Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such Security for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like amount of Securities, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section.
 
SECTION 2.13 .
CUSIP Numbers
 
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
CUSIP
CUSIP
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01 .
Purchase of Securities at Option of the Holder upon Change in Control
 
(a) If on or prior to the date specified in paragraph 5 of the Securities, there shall have occurred a Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for cash all or any portion of such Holder's Securities in integral multiples of $1,000 Principal Amount at a purchase price specified in paragraph 5 of the Securities (the ""), as of the date that is no later than 35 Business Days after the occurrence of the Change in Control but in no event prior to the date on which such Change in Control occurs (the ""), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 3.01(c).
Change in Control Purchase Price
Change in Control Purchase Date
 
A "" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur:
Change in Control
 
(1) any person or group, other than the Company, its Subsidiaries or any employee benefits plan of the Company or its Subsidiaries, files a Schedule 13D or Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) pursuant to the Exchange Act, disclosing that such person has become the beneficial owner of 50% or more of the voting power of the Common Stock then outstanding or other capital stock into which the Common Stock is reclassified or changed; provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed beneficial owner of, or to own beneficially, (A) any securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such person or any of such person's Affiliates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange thereunder, or (B) any securities if such beneficial ownership (1) arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (2) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any successor schedule) under the Exchange Act; or
 
(2) the Company consolidates with or merges with or into another person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company), or sells, conveys, transfers or leases all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) or any person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company) consolidates with or merges with or into the Company, and the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified into, converted for or converted into the right to receive any other property or security, provided that none of these circumstances will be a change in control if the persons that beneficially own the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to the transaction own, directly or indirectly, shares with a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee person that are entitled to vote generally in the election of that person's board of directors, managers or trustees immediately after the transaction.
 
For purposes of defining a Change in Control:
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will not constitute a Change in Control if 100% of the consideration for the Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenter's appraisal rights and cash payment of the Required Cash Amount, if any) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change in Control consists of common stock traded on a United States national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market, or which will be so traded or quoted when exchanged in connection with the Change in Control, and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Securities become convertible solely into such common stock.
 
(b) As promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces the Change in Control transaction, but in no event less than 15 Business Days prior to the anticipated effective date of a Change in Control, the Company shall mail a written notice of Change in Control by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder at their addresses shown in the register of the Registrar (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Change in Control Purchase Notice to be completed by the Securityholder and shall state:
 
(1) briefly, the events causing a Change in Control;
 
(2) the anticipated effective date of such Change in Control;
 
(3) whether such Change in Control will also constitute a Public Acquirer Change in Control and the conversion rights available to the Holders in connection with such Public Acquirer Change in Control, including the period of conversion, if any, and any adjustments to the Conversion Rate;
 
(4) the date by which the Change in Control Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 3.01 must be given;
 
(5) the Change in Control Purchase Price;
 
(6) the Change in Control Purchase Date;
 
(7) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
 
(8) the Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto;
 
(9) that Securities with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder may be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
 
(10) the procedures a Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
 
(11) that Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price;
 
(12) that the Change in Control Purchase Price for any Security as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn, together with any accrued interest payable with respect thereto, will be paid on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security;
 
(13) briefly, the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 3.01;
 
(14) briefly, the conversion rights of the Securities;
 
(15) the procedures for withdrawing a Change in Control Purchase Notice;
 
(16) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest due, if any, interest on Securities surrendered for purchase will cease to accrue on and after the Change in Control Purchase Date; and
 
(17) the CUSIP number of the Securities.
 
(c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 3.01(a) by delivery of a written notice of purchase (a "") to the Paying Agent at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date, stating:
Change in Control Purchase Notice
 
(1) the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased;
 
(2) the portion of the Principal Amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and
 
(3) that such Security shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 5 of the Securities.
 
The delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Change in Control Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 3.01 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Change in Control Purchase Notice.
 
The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.01, a portion of a Security if the Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security.
 
Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.01 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder (together with accrued and unpaid interest) on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 3.01.
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Change in Control Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 3.01(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 3.02.
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Change in Control Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
 
The Company shall not be required to comply with this Section 3.01 if a third party mails a written notice of Change in Control in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with this Section 3.01 and repurchases all Securities for which a Change in Control Purchase Notice shall be delivered and not withdrawn.
 
SECTION 3.02 .
Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice
 
Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Change in Control Purchase Notice specified in Section 3.01(c), the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Change in Control Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change in Control Purchase Price and any accrued and unpaid interest, with respect to such Security. Such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of (x) the Change in Control Purchase Date, with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 3.01(c) have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 3.01(c). Securities in
 
respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 10 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Change in Control Purchase Notice unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs.
 
A Change in Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Change in Control Purchase Date specifying:
 
(1) the certificate number of the Security in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted,
 
(2) the Principal Amount of the Security with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, and
 
(3) the Principal Amount, if any, of such Security which remains subject to the original Change in Control Purchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
 
A written notice of withdrawal of a Change in Control Purchase Notice may be in the form set forth in the preceding paragraph.
 
There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to 3.01 if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Securities, of the required Change in Control Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities (x) with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price) in which case, upon such return, the Change in Control Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
 
SECTION 3.03 .
Deposit of Change in Control Purchase Price
 
Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date.
 
SECTION 3.04 .
Securities Purchased in Part
 
Any Security which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly
 
executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate Principal Amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the Principal Amount of the Security so surrendered which is not purchased.
 
SECTION 3.05 .
Covenant to Comply With Securities Laws Upon Purchase of Securities
 
In connection with any offer to purchase or purchase of Securities under Section 3.01 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender 30 offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), the Company shall, to the extent required by law, (i) comply with Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 and any other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act which may then apply and (ii) otherwise comply with all Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under 3.01 to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.01.
 
SECTION 3.06 .
Repayment to the Company
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed as provided in paragraph 10 of the Securities, together with interest thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)), held by them for the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price; provided, however, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.03 exceeds the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price, with respect to, the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Change in Control Purchase Date, whether as a result of withdrawal or otherwise, then promptly after the Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)).
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01 .
Payment of Securities
 
The Company shall promptly make all payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. Any amounts to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent, shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, by the Company. Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest, shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Change in Control Purchase Price, on or prior to the third Business Day following the applicable Change in Control Purchase Date) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. All references in this indenture to "interest" shall include Additional Interest, if any. The Company shall pay
 
all Additional Interest, if any, in the same manner on the dates set forth in the Securities and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
The Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, pay interest on overdue amounts at the rate per annum set forth in paragraph 1 of the Securities, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for.
 
SECTION 4.02 .
SEC and Other Reports
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, it shall continue to provide the Trustee with reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such reports shall be provided at the times the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of the same shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
SECTION 4.03 .
Compliance Certificate
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006) an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
SECTION 4.04 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
 
The Company will maintain an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange for other Securities, purchase or conversion for Common Stock and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Trustee's office specified in Section 12.02 shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid
 
purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations.
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01 .
When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets
 
The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all its properties and assets to another person, unless:
 
(a) either (1) the Company shall be the continuing corporation or (2) the person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the person which acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company (i) shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and (ii) shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
 
(c) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article 5 and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
 
For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company.
 
The successor person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor person to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company
 
herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Company may have under a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.17, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Subject to Section 9.06, the Company, the Trustee and the successor person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor person and such discharge and release of the Company.
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01 .
Events of Default
 
An "" occurs if:
Event of Default
 
(1) the Company defaults in the payment of the Principal Amount or Change in Control Purchase Price on any Security when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon declaration, when due for purchase by the Company or otherwise;
 
(2) the Company defaults in payment of any interest due on the Securities, which default continues for 30 days;
 
(3) the Company fails to comply with any of its agreements in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default (as defined below);
 
(4) (a) the Company fails to make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $50,000,000 and continuance of such failure, or (b) the acceleration of Indebtedness has occurred in an amount in excess of $50,000,000 because of a default with respect to such Indebtedness without such Indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, in the case of (a) above, for a period of 30 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default; provided, however, that if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (a) or (b) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred; or
 
(5) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
 
(A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding;
 
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it;
 
(C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
 
(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
 
(E) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or
 
(F) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian; or
 
(6) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(A) is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Company or any Significant Subsidiary insolvent or bankrupt;
 
(B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary or for any substantial part of its property; or (C) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary;
 
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
 
(a) "" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
(b) "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
 
A Default under clause (3) or clause (4) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default (and such Default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (3) or clause (4) above after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "".
Notice of Default
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after it becomes aware of the occurrence thereof, written notice of any event which with the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default under clause (3) or clause (4) above, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
SECTION 6.02 .
Acceleration
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) in respect of the Company) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by Notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the Principal Amount through the date of declaration, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration,
 
such Principal Amount, and such accrued and unpaid interest if any, shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6) in respect of the Company occurs and is continuing, the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest if any, on all the Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Securityholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder) may rescind an acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the Principal Amount that have become due solely as a result of acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.07 have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
 
SECTION 6.03 .
Other Remedies
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the Principal Amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest if any, on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of, or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. Except as set forth in Section 2.07 hereof, no remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
 
SECTION 6.04 .
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
Subject to Section 6.02, the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder), may waive an existing or past Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2), or (2) a Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Securityholder affected. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. This Section 6.04 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)1(A) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(A) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
SECTION 6.05 .
Control by Majority
 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Securityholders or could, in reasonable likelihood, impose personal liability upon the Trustee unless the Trustee is offered indemnity satisfactory to it. This Section 6.05 shall be in lieu of
 
Section 316(a)1(B) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(B) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
SECTION 6.06 .
Limitation on Suits
 
A Securityholder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities unless:
 
(1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing;
 
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of security or indemnity; and
 
(5) the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request during such 60-day period.
 
A Securityholder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Securityholder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Securityholder.
 
SECTION 6.07 .
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities, and to convert the Securities in accordance with Article 10, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or the right to convert, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder.
 
SECTION 6.08 .
Collection Suit by Trustee
 
If an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount owing with respect to the Securities and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
 
SECTION 6.09 .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the
 
Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest in respect of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
 
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, or interest and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel or any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
 
(b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
 
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
SECTION 6.10 .
Priorities
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
 
SECOND: to Securityholders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities for the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to such amounts due and payable on the Securities; and
 
THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company.
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Securityholders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
 
SECTION 6.11 .
Undertaking for Costs
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit (other than the Trustee) of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit (other than the Trustee), having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. This Section 6.11 shall be in lieu of Section 315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
SECTION 6.12 .
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest in respect of Securities, or any interest on such amounts, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01 .
Duties of Trustee
 
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(1) the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others; and
 
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificate or opinion furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in case of any such certificates or opinions which by any
 
provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture, but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein.
 
This Section 7.01(b) shall be in lieu of Section 315(a) of the TIA and such Section 315(a) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(1) this paragraph (c) does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01;
 
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05.
 
Subparagraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) shall be in lieu of Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) of the TIA and such Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
(d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this Section 7.01.
 
(e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power or extend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f) Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity hereunder) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
 
SECTION 7.02 .
Rights of Trustee
 
Subject to its duties and responsibilities under the provisions of Section 7.01, and, except as expressly excluded from this Indenture pursuant to said Section 7.01, subject also to its duties and responsibilities under the TIA:
 
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
 
(c) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(d) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred under this Indenture;
 
(e) the Trustee may consult with counsel selected by it and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
 
(f) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby;
 
(g) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors;
 
(h) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, including, without limitation, any Company Request, Company Order or Officers' Certificate, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation or lack thereof;
 
(i) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee received written notice of an event which is in fact such a Default or Event of Default, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture, describes the event with specificity, and alleges that the occurrence of this event is a Default or an Event of Default under this Indenture;
 
(j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall
 
be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
 
(k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
 
(l) the permissive rights of the Trustee enumberated herein shall not be construed as duties.
 
SECTION 7.03 .
Individual Rights of Trustee
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Section 7.10.
 
SECTION 7.04 .
Trustee's Disclaimer
 
The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Securities, it shall not be responsible for any statement in the registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act or in the Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication), or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder.
 
SECTION 7.05 .
Notice of Defaults
 
If a Default occurs and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Securityholder notice of the Default within 90 days after the Trustee gains knowledge of the Default unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice. Except in the case of a Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Securityholders. The second sentence of this Section 7.05 shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA. The Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice of such Default in the manner described in Section 7.02(i).
 
Section 7.06 .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
 
(1) Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit to each Securityholder such reports as may be required under Section 313 of the TIA.
 
SECTION 7.07 .
Compensation and Indemnity
 
The Company agrees:
 
(a) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such reasonable compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited (to the extent permitted by law) by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
(b) to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses, advances and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
 
(c) to indemnify the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee and their agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, damage, claim, liability, cost or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses and taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee)) reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company or any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the acceptance, exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
 
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, Holders shall have been deemed to have granted to the Trustee a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price, or interest, as the case may be, on particular Securities.
 
The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 6.01(5) or (6), its expenses including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel, are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
SECTION 7.08 .
Replacement of Trustee
 
The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company; provided, however, no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 7.08. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
 
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
 
(3) a receiver or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company satisfactory in form and substance to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Securityholders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Company for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Securityholder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
The resignation or removal of a Trustee shall not diminish, impair or terminate its rights to indemnification pursuant to Section 7.07 as they relate to periods prior to such resignation or removal.
 
SECTION 7.09 .
Successor Trustee by Merger
 
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
 
SECTION 7.10 .
Eligibility; Disqualification
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as Trustee and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then, for the purposes of this Section 7.10, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.10, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article 7.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01 .
Discharge of Liability on Securities
 
When (i) the Company delivers to the Trustee all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Securities have become due and payable and the Company deposits with the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if the Paying Agent is not the Company or any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of either of them) or the Conversion Agent cash or, if expressly permitted by the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, Common Stock (solely to satisfy the rights of Holders granted in Article 10) or governmental obligations sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.07), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate stating that the consideration being given is expressly permitted by the terms of the Securities and that all conditions precedent to the discharge of the Indenture have been complied with by the Company and an Opinion of Counsel that such satisfaction and discharge does not violate the terms of this Indenture or the Securities, and at the cost and expense of the Company. The Trustee shall be allowed to conclusively rely on such Officers' Certificate.
 
SECTION 8.02 .
Repayment to the Company
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person and the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall have no further liability to the Securityholders with respect to such money or securities for that period commencing after the return thereof.
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01 .
Without Consent of Holders
 
The Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder:
 
(1) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency;
 
(2) to comply with Article 5 or Section 10.17;
 
(3) to secure the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(4) to add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Securityholders or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company;
 
(5) to make any change to comply with the TIA, or any amendment thereto, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or as necessary in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act if at any time the Company seeks to register the Securities thereunder; or
 
(6) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
 
No amendment to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture made solely to conform the Indenture to the description of the Securities contained in the offering memorandum pursuant to which the Securities have been initially offered shall be deemed to adversely affect the interests of the Holders.
 
SECTION 9.02 .
With Consent of Holders
 
With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, the Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities. However, without the consent of each Securityholder affected, an amendment to this Indenture or the Securities may not:
 
(1) reduce the Principal Amount, or Change in Control Purchse Price with respect to or any premium or interest on any Security;
 
(2) make any Security payable in money or securities other than that stated in the Security;
 
(3) change the Stated Maturity of any Security;
 
(4) make any change that adversely affects the right of a Holder to convert any Security;
 
(5) make any change that adversely affects the right to require the Company to purchase the Securities in accordance with the terms thereof and this Indenture;
 
(6) impair the right to convert or receive payment with respect to, a Security, or right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment with respect to, or conversion of, the Securities; or
 
(7) make any change in Section 6.04, Section 6.07 or this Section 9.02, except to increase any percentage set forth therein.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
 
After an amendment under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment. Failure to mail such notice or a defect in the notice shall not affect the validity of the amendment.
 
SECTION 9.03 .
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
 
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA.
 
SECTION 9.04 .
Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions
 
Until an amendment, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Security hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, waiver or action becomes effective. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Securityholder.
 
SECTION 9.05 .
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
 
Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities.
 
SECTION 9.06 .
Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures
 
The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
 
SECTION 9.07 .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form
 
a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01 .
Conversion Privilege
 
A Holder of a Security may convert such Security at any time during the period stated in paragraph 6 of the Securities upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in paragraph 6 of the Securities, subject to the provisions of this Article 10. Subject to certain exceptions described in paragraph 6 of the Securities, if a Holder surrenders its Securities for conversion, such holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 of Principal Amount into the Conversion Value which shall be paid as follows:
 
(i) Cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) $1,000 and (B) the Conversion Value (the ""); and
Required Cash Amount
 
(ii) if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, a number of shares of Common Stock (the ""), equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period, subject to the right of the Company to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Remaining Shares as described below.
Remaining Shares
 
On any day prior to the first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the "") and will notify the Securityholder of such Cash Percentage through written notice to the Trustee (the ""). If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, the amount of cash that the Company will deliver in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will equal the product of: (1) the Cash Percentage, (2) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day, and (3) the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for such Trading Day (provided that after the consummation of a Change in Control in which the consideration is comprised entirely of cash, the amount used in this clause (3) will be the cash price per share of Common Stock received by holders of Common Stock in such Change in Control). The number of shares deliverable in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% minus the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the Company will pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such Security, pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof. The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice through written notice to the Trustee prior to the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
Cash Percentage
Cash Percentage Notice
 
A Holder may convert a portion of the Principal Amount of a Security if the portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Security also apply to conversion of a portion of a Security.
 
In the event of a stock split, combination, dividend or any other event resulting in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Sections 10.06, 10.07, 10.08 10.09 or 10.10, during the applicable Conversion Reference Period, appropriate adjustment to the equation for calculating Conversion Value and Remaining Shares shall be made, as determined by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 10.02 .
Conversion Procedure
 
To convert a Security, a Holder must satisfy the requirements in paragraph 6 of the Securities. The Conversion Agent shall, within one (1) Business Day of the Conversion Date, provide notice to the Company as set forth in Section 12.02(b).
 
As promptly as practicable following the end of the Conversion Reference Period applicable to the Securities being converted, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (including cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to Section 10.03 hereof). The person in whose name the certificate representing any shares is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the Conversion Date; provided, however, that no surrender of a Security on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive the Net Share Amount upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at the Close of Business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open; such conversion shall be at the Conversion Rate in effect on the date that such Security shall have been surrendered for conversion, as if the stock transfer books of the Company had not been closed. Upon conversion of a Security, such person shall no longer be a Holder of such Security.
 
No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article 10. On conversion of a Security, accrued interest with respect to the converted Security shall not be cancelled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through delivery of the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
 
If the Holder converts more than one Security at the same time, the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) shall be based on the total Principal Amount of the Securities converted.
 
If the last day on which a Security may be converted is a Legal Holiday, the Security may be surrendered on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday.
 
Upon surrender of a Security that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in Principal Amount to the unconverted portion of the Security surrendered.
 
SECTION 10.03 .
Fractional Shares
 
The Company will not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of a Security. Instead, the Company will deliver cash for the current market value of the fractional share. The current market value of a fractional share shall equal the arithmetic average of the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days of the Conversion Reference Period, rounded to the nearest whole cent.
 
SECTION 10.04 .
Taxes on Conversion
 
If a Holder converts a Security, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of any shares of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the shares are to be delivered in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
 
SECTION 10.05 .
Company to Provide Stock
 
The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Securities under this Article 10, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the payment of the Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of the Securities.
 
All shares of Common Stock delivered upon payment of any Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of the Securities shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
 
The Company will comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon payment of any Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of Securities, if any, and will list or cause to have quoted such shares of Common Stock on each national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or such other market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted.
 
SECTION 10.06 .
Adjustment for Change In Capital Stock
 
If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company:
 
(1) pays a dividend or makes a distribution on its Common Stock payable in shares of its Common Stock or shares of other Capital Stock;
 
(2) subdivides or combines its shares of Common Stock; or
 
(3) issues by reclassification of its Common Stock any shares of its Capital Stock (other than rights, warrants or options for its Capital Stock),
 
then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holder of a Security thereafter converted may receive the number of shares of Capital Stock of the Company which such Holder would have owned immediately following such action if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to such action.
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and immediately after the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification.
 
If after an adjustment a Holder of a Security upon conversion of such Security may receive shares of two or more classes of Capital Stock of the Company, the Conversion Rate shall thereafter be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of an action taken with respect to any such class of Capital Stock as is contemplated by this Article 10 with respect to the Common Stock, on terms comparable to those applicable to Common Stock in this Article 10.
 
SECTION 10.07 .
Adjustment for Rights Issue
 
If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes any rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Average Closing Price, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
 
 
where:
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
R = the current Conversion Rate.
 
O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 is being applied.
 
N = the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered pursuant to the distribution.
 
P = the offering price per share of the additional shares.
 
M = the Average Closing Price, minus, in the case of (i) a distribution to which Section 10.06(4) applies or (ii) a distribution to which Section 10.08 applies, for which, in each
 
case, (x) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies and (y) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the first public announcement for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.07 applies) of the
 
(1) Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.06(4) distribution and
 
(2) assets of the Company or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.08 distribution.
 
The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.07.
 
In the event the Company makes a distribution pursuant to this Section 10.07 which has a per share value equal to more than 15% of the Closing Price of shares of Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution, the Company will be required to give notice to the holders of Securities at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date, as defined below, for such distribution.
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the rights, warrants or options to which this Section 10.07 applies. If all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such rights, warrants or options have not been issued when such rights, warrants or options expire, then the Conversion Rate shall promptly be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustment upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or options been made on the basis of the actual number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such rights, warrants or options.
 
No adjustment shall be made under this Section 10.07 if the application of the formula stated above in this Section 10.07 would result in a value of R' that is equal to or less than the value of R.
 
SECTION 10.08 .
Adjustment for Other Distributions
 
(a) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock any of its assets (including shares of any Subsidiary or business unit of the Company but excluding distributions of Capital Stock or equity interests referred to in Section 10.08(b)), or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (including securities or cash, but excluding (x) distributions of Capital Stock referred to in Section 10.06 and distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section 10.07 and (y) cash dividends or other cash distributions referred to in Section 10.09, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 10.08(c), in accordance with the formula:
 
 
where:
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
R = the current Conversion Rate.
 
M = the Average Closing Price, minus, in the case of a distribution to which Section 10.06(4) applies, for which (i) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies and (ii) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies) of any Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 10.06(4) distribution.
 
F = the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies) of the assets, securities, rights, warrants or options to be distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) is being applied (including, in the case of cash dividends or other cash distributions giving rise to an adjustment, all such cash distributed concurrently).
 
The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 10.08(a).
 
The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive the distribution to which this Section 10.08(a) applies.
 
(b) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock consisting of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
 
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
R = the current Conversion Rate.
 
M = the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the date on which "ex-dividend trading" commences for such dividend or distribution on the principal United States exchange or market which such securities are then listed or quoted (the "").
Ex-Dividend Date
 
F = the fair market value of the securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock for which this Section 10.08(b) shall mean the number of securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock multiplied by the average of the Post-Distribution Prices
 
of those securities distributed for the 10 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the Ex-Dividend Date.
 
"" of Capital Stock or any similar equity interest on any date means the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated; provided that if on any date such units have not traded on a "" basis, the Post-Distribution Price shall be the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated. In the absence of such quotation, the Company shall be entitled to determine the Post-Distribution Price on the basis of such quotations which reflect the post-distribution value of the Capital Stock or equity interests as it considers appropriate.
Post-Distribution Price
when issued
when issued
regular way
 
(c) In the event that, with respect to any distribution to which Section 10.08(a) would otherwise apply, the difference "" as defined in the formula set forth in Section 10.08(a) is less than $1.00 or "" is equal to or greater than "", then the adjustment provided by Section 10.08(a) shall not be made and in lieu thereof the provisions of Section 10.16 shall apply to such distribution.
M-F
F
M
 
(d) In the event the Company makes a distribution pursuant to this Section 10.08 which has a per share value equal to more than 15% of the Closing Price of shares of Common Stock on the day preceding the declaration date for such distribution, the Company will be required to give notice to the holders of Securities at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date, as defined below, for such distribution.
 
SECTION 10.09 .
Adjustment for Cash Dividends
 
(a) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock any cash (excluding any dividend or distribution in connection with the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 10.09(b) in accordance with the formula:
 
 
where,
 
R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate;
 
R = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Time of Determination;
 
M = the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days prior to the Trading Day immediately preceding the Time of Determination; and
 
C = the amount in cash per share the Company distributes to holders of the Common Stock (and for which no adjustment has been made).
 
SECTION 10.10 .
Adjustment for Tender Offer
 
If, after the Issue Date, the Company makes a payment of cash or other consideration to holders of Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, for the Common Stock, and the value of the sum of (i) the aggregate cash and other consideration paid for such Common Stock, and (ii) the aggregate fair market value of any consideration paid for the purchase of Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, within the twelve (12) months preceding the date of purchase of such shares of Common Stock in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.10 previously has been made, expressed as an amount per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer, exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the last time (the "") on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to the tender or exchange offer, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula:
Expiration Time
 
 
where,
 
R = the Conversion Rate in effect on the Expiration Time;
 
R' = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Expiration Time;
 
F = the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration paid or payable for shares of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Time (the "");
Purchased Shares
 
O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Expiration Time less any Purchased Shares;
 
O' = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Expiration Time, including any Purchased Shares; and
 
P = the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time.
 
Such increase (if any) shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Expiration Time. In the event that the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender offer, but the Company is prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. If the application of this Section 10.10 to any tender or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender or exchange offer under this Section 10.10.
 
SECTION 10.11 .
Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Change in Control Transactions
 
If, after the Issue Date, a Change in Control occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Securities in connection with such Change in Control, the Company will increase the Applicable Conversion Rate for the Securities surrendered by conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the ""), as described in this Section 10.11. A conversion of Securities will be deemed for the purposes of this Section 10.11 to be "in connection with" a Change in Control transaction if the notice of conversion of the Securities is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the date that is ten Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Change in Control, up to and including the Trading Day prior to the related purchase date.
Make-Whole Shares
 
The number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by reference to the table below and is based on the date which such Change in Control transaction becomes effective (the "") and the price (the "") paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction. If the holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Change in Control transaction, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive Trading Days up to but excluding the Change in Control Effective Date.
Change in Control Effective Date
Stock Price
 
The Stock Prices set forth in the first column of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Applicable Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Applicable Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
 
 
If the exact Stock Prices and effective dates are not set forth in the table, then: (i) if the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the effective date is between two dates in the table, the Make-Whole Shares issued upon conversion of the Securities will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates in the table, based on a 365-day year, (ii) if the Stock Price exceeds $200.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities; and (iii) if the Stock Price is less than $71.93 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities.
 
SECTION 10.12 .
Adjustment to Conversion Rate After a Public Acquirer Change in Control
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.11, if, following the Issue Date, a Change in Control constituting a Public Acquirer Change in Control (as defined below) occurs, the Company may, in lieu of issuing additional shares of Common Stock upon conversion, elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and the related conversion obligation such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change in Control (the ""), Holders shall be entitled to convert their Securities into a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock (as defined below), still subject to the arrangements for payment upon conversion otherwise applicable pursuant to this Article 10, by adjusting the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Public Acquirer Change in Control by a fraction (i) the numerator of which will be (a) in the case of a share exchange, consideration,
Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date
 
merger or binding share exchange pursuant to which the Common Stock is converted into cash, securities, or other property, the average value of all cash and any other consideration (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company) paid or payable per share of Common Stock or (b) in the case of any other Public Acquirer Change in Control, the average of the last reported sale prices of our Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days prior to but excluding the Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date; and (ii) the denominator of which will be the average of the last reported sales prices of the Public Acquirer Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date.
 
A "" means a Change in Control in which the acquirer has a class of common stock traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such change in control (the ""). If an acquirer does not itself have a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, it will be deemed to have "public acquirer common stock" if a corporation that directly or indirectly owns at least a majority of the acquirer has a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, in such case, all references to public acquirer common stock shall refer to such class of common stock. Majority owned for these purposes means having "beneficial ownership" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act of more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of the respective entity's capital stock that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Public Acquirer Change in Control
Public Acquirer Common Stock
 
Upon a Public Acquirer Change in Control, at the election of the Company, Holders may convert their Securities at the adjusted Conversion Rate described in the second preceding paragraph in this Section 10.12 but shall not be entitled to receive additional shares upon conversion as described herein. The Company shall be required to notify Holders of its election in its notice to holders of such Public Acquirer Change in Control pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
SECTION 10.13 .
When Adjustment May Be Deferred
 
No adjustment in the Conversion Rate need be made unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate. Any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate shall be carried forward and taken into account in determining any subsequent adjustment. In addition, the Company shall make and pay any carry forward adjustments not otherwise effected on each anniversary of the Issue Date, upon conversion of any Note, upon required purchase of the notes pursuant to Section 3.01, and five business days prior to the Stated Maturity.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 10, in no event will the Conversion Rate exceed 13.9024 shares per $1,000 Principal Amount of the Securities, as adjusted, other than on account of Sections 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.11, and 10.12.
 
All calculations under this Article 10 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/1,000th of a share, as the case may be (with one-half cent and 5/10,000ths of a share being rounded upward).
 
SECTION 10.14 .
When No Adjustment Required
 
No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10 or 10.17 if Securityholders are to participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction. Such participation by Securityholders may include participation upon conversion provided that an adjustment shall be made at such time as the Securityholders are no longer entitled to participate.
 
No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest.
 
No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock.
 
To the extent the Securities become convertible pursuant to this Article 10 into cash, no adjustment need be made thereafter as to the cash. Interest will not accrue on the cash.
 
SECTION 10.15 .
Notice of Adjustment
 
Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Securityholders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice and a certificate from the Company's independent public accountants briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
 
SECTION 10.16 .
Notice of Certain Transactions
 
If:
 
(1) the Company takes any action that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10 or 10.11 (unless no adjustment is to occur pursuant to Section 10.14); or
 
(2) the Company takes any action that would require a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 10.17; or
 
(3) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
 
then the Company shall mail to Securityholders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice stating the proposed record date for a dividend or distribution or the proposed effective date of a subdivision, combination, reclassification, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer, liquidation or dissolution. The Company shall file and mail the notice at least 15 days before such date. Failure to file or mail the notice or any defect in it shall not affect the validity of the transaction.
 
SECTION 10.17 .
Reorganization of Company; Special Distributions
 
If the Company is a party to a transaction subject to Section 5.01 (other than a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in a transaction in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction do not receive securities, cash or other assets of the Company or any other person) or a merger or binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, the person obligated to deliver securities, cash or other assets upon conversion of Securities shall enter into a supplemental indenture. If the issuer of securities deliverable upon conversion of Securities is an Affiliate of the successor Company, that issuer shall join in the supplemental indenture.
 
The supplemental indenture shall provide that after the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Net Share Amount will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if such transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article 10. The supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practical to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. The successor Company shall mail to Securityholders a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture.
 
If this Section applies, neither Section 10.06 nor 10.07 applies. If the Company makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock of any of its assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company that, but for the provisions of Section 10.08(c), would otherwise result in an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.08, then, from and after the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution, a Holder of a Security that converts such Security in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture shall upon such conversion be entitled to receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible, the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that such Holder would have received if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution.
 
SECTION 10.18 .
Company Determination Final
 
Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to Section 10.03, 10.06, 10.07, 10.08, 10.09, 10.10, 10.13, 10.14, 10.17 or 10.20 is conclusive.
 
SECTION 10.19 .
Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer
 
The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee has no duty to
 
determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 10.17 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 10. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 10.19 as the Trustee.
 
SECTION 10.20 .
Simultaneous Adjustments
 
In the event that this Article 10 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 10.06(4), 10.07, 10.08 or 10.09, and the record dates for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of Section 10.06, second, the provisions of Section 10.08, third, the provisions of Section 10.09 and, fourth, the provisions of 10.07.
 
SECTION 10.21 .
Successive Adjustments
 
After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 10, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
 
SECTION 10.22 .
Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued Upon Conversion
 
Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities pursuant to this Article 10 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights (""), if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of the Company's Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2000, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent, or any successor shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended form time to time (in each case, a ""). Provided that such Shareholders Rights Plan requires that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities (or cash in lieu thereof) at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights be entitled to receive such Rights, then, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this Article 10, there shall not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate as a result of the issuance of Rights, the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights, the exercise or redemption of such Rights in accordance with any Shareholders Rights Plan, or the termination or invalidation of such Rights.
Rights
Shareholders Rights Plan
 
SECTION 10.23 .
Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate
 
If the Company pays withholding taxes on behalf of a Holder as a result of an adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the Company may, at its option, set off such payments against payments of cash and Common Stock on the Securities.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 11.01 .
Interest Payments
 
Interest on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any applicable Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the person in whose name that Security is registered at the Close of Business on the Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of interest payable in cash on any Security shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States, if the Trustee shall have received proper wire transfer instructions from such payee not later than the related Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, or, if no such instructions have been received by check drawn on a bank in the City of New York mailed to the payee at its address set forth on the Registrar's books. In the case of a permanent Global Security, interest payable on any applicable payment date will be paid to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such permanent Global Security held for its account by Cede & Co. for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such permanent Global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
 
SECTION 11.02 .
Defaulted Interest
 
Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Securities, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, within 30 days following any applicable payment date (herein called "", which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Securities), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below. All such Defaulted Interest shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date.
Defaulted Interest
 
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the Close of Business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment (which shall not be less than 20 days after such notice is received by the Trustee), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment (the ""). The Trustee shall promptly notify
Special Record Date
 
the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities at his address as it appears on the list of Securityholders maintained pursuant to Section 2.05 not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the Close of Business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
 
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
SECTION 11.03 .
Interest Rights Preserved
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 11 and Section 2.06, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
 
 
SECTION 12.01 .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
 
SECTION 12.02 .
Notices; Address of Agency
 
(a) Other than as set forth in Section 10.01, any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers:
 
if to the Company:
 
Amgen Inc.
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Telephone No.: (805) 447-1000
Facsimile No.: (805) 449-2863
Attention: Treasurer
 
with a copy to:
 
Latham & Watkins LLP
633 West Fifth Street
Suite 4000
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Telephone No.: (213) 485-1234
Facsimile No.: (213) 891-8763
Attention: Gregory Rodgers, Esq.
 
if to the Trustee:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
4 New York Plaza, 15
th
Floor
New York, NY 10004
Telephone No.: (212) 623-5233
Facsimile No.: (212) 623-6215
Attention: Carol Ng, Vice President
 
with a copy to:
 
Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn LLP
410 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Telephone No.: (212) 326-0820
Facsimile No.: (212) 798-6909
Attention: Michael Fruchter, Esq.
 
The Company or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
Any notice or communication given to a Securityholder shall be mailed to the Securityholder, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Securityholder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
 
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee.
 
If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
 
(b) Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication to be provided in connection with Section 10.12 shall be in writing and delivered in person or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers or via e-mail to the account or accounts specified by the Company by written notice to the Trustee:
 
if to the Company:
 
Amgen Inc.
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Telephone No.: (805) 447-1000
Facsimile No.: (805) 449-2863
Attention: Treasurer
 
with a copy to:
 
Latham & Watkins LLP
633 West Fifth Street
Suite 4000
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Telephone No.: (213) 485-1234
Facsimile No.: (213) 891-8763
Attention: Gregory Rodgers, Esq.
 
with a copy to:
 
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Telephone No.: 44 207 995 3769
Facsimile No.: 44 207 995 2004
Attention: Manager, Fixed Income Settlements
 
and
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited
c/o Morgan Stanley Bank
One New York Plaza, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10004
Attention: Fred Gonfiantini
Facsimile No.: (212) 507-0724
Telephone No.:(212) 276-2427
 
Any notice party set forth in this Section 12.02(b) by notice given to the others in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications, including email addresses.
 
SECTION 12.03 .
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
 
Securityholders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
 
SECTION 12.04 .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
(1) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
 
(2) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
 
SECTION 12.05 .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
 
Unless the Trustee agrees, in its sole discretion, to accept a different form or format, each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
(1) a statement that each person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition;
 
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based;
 
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
(4) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
 
SECTION 12.06 .
Separability Clause
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
SECTION 12.07 .
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Securityholders. The Registrar, Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
 
SECTION 12.08 .
Calculations
 
The calculation of the Conversion Value, Conversion Date, Volume Weighted Average Price, Conversion Reference Period, Change in Control Purchase Price, Conversion Rate, Closing Price of the Common Stock, Required Cash Amount, Trading Price, the number of shares, if any, to be issued upon conversion and each other calculation to be made hereunder shall be the obligation of the Company. All calculations made by the Company as contemplated pursuant to this Section 12.08 shall be in good faith and final and binding on the Company and the Holders absent manifest error. The Company will provide a schedule of the calculations to the Trustee and the Trustee is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the calculations without independent verification.
 
SECTION 12.09 .
Legal Holidays
 
A "" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Securities, interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
 
SECTION 12.10 .
Governing Law
 
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES.
 
SECTION 12.11 .
No Recourse Against Others
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
SECTION 12.12 .
Successors
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
 
SECTION 12.13 .
Multiple Originals
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
1
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
1
 
THE NOTES AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS NOTE, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.
2
 
BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS NOTE (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE
 
 
ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
2
 
 
 
 
AMGEN INC., a Delaware Corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the Principal Amount of                                                           on February 1, 2013.
 
This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 0.375% per annum. This Security is convertible as specified on the other side of this Security.
 
Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 0.375% per annum. Interest on this Security shall accrue from the Issue Date, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2006, to the holders of record of Securities at the Close of Business on the January 15 or July 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Each payment of cash interest on this Security shall include interest accrued for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, the scheduled original Issue Date) through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date or purchase date. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest shall be calculated using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest shall cease to accrue on this Security upon its Stated Maturity, conversion or purchase by the Company at the option of the Holder upon a Change in Control in accordance with paragraph 5 hereof.
 
If the Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration pursuant to Section 6.02 of the Indenture, upon the date set for payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price pursuant to paragraph 5 hereof or upon the Stated Maturity of this Security) or if interest due hereon or any portion of such interest is not paid when due in accordance with paragraph 5 or 7 hereof, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate of 1.375% per annum, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date.
 
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of Change in Control Purchase Prices and at Stated Maturity to Holders who surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Securities. The Company will pay any cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money.
 
 
Initially, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association (the ""), will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar. The Company
Trustee
 
may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business.
 
 
The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of February 17, 2006 (the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture for a statement of those terms.
Indenture
TIA
 
The Securities are senior unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $2,500,000,000 aggregate Principal Amount (subject to Section 2.07 of the Indenture). The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured.
 
 
At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to purchase the Securities held by such Holder no later than 35 Business Days after the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company for a Change in Control Purchase Price equal to the Principal Amount of the Securities to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Change in Control Purchase Date, which Change in Control Purchase Price shall be paid in cash.
 
In addition to the Change in Control Purchase Price payable with respect to all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Holders of such Securities (or portions thereof) shall be entitled to receive accrued and unpaid interest with respect thereto, which shall be paid in cash on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of such Securities to the Paying Agent pursuant to the Indenture.
 
Holders have the right to withdraw any Change in Control Purchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
 
If cash (and/or securities if permitted under the Indenture) sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price, of, together with any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to, all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, interest shall cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest upon surrender of such Security).
 
 
A Holder of a Security may convert such Security into cash and, at the option of the Company, shares of Common Stock of the Company before the Close of Business on February 1, 2013, if at least one of the following conditions is satisfied:
 
(a) during any calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006, and only during such calendar quarter, if, as of the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the Closing Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of such preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price per share on that 30
th
Trading Day on the last day of such preceding calendar quarter (the ""). The Conversion Agent will determine on the Company's behalf at the beginning of each calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006 through the calendar quarter ending December 31, 2010, whether the Securities are convertible as a result of the price of the Common Stock and notify the Company and the Trustee;
Conversion Trigger Price
 
(b) the Company elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock (i) rights or warrants entitling them to subscribe for or purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at less than the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution, or (ii) cash, debt securities (or other evidence of Indebtedness) or other assets (excluding dividends or distributions described in Sections 10.06(1), 10.06(2) and 10.06(3) of the Indenture, which distribution, together with all other distributions within the preceding twelve months, has a per share value exceeding 15% of the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution; or
 
(c) in the event the Company is a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other assets, at any time from or after the date which is 15 days prior to the anticipated effective time of the transaction until 35 days after the actual date of such transaction (or, if the transaction also constitutes a change in control, until the Change in Control Purchase Date). After the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Conversion Value will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if the transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. The Company will notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction (but in no event less than 15 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction).
 
If the Company makes a distribution described in subsection (a) or (b), the Company must notify Holders at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. Once the Company has given such notice, Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion at any time until the earlier of the Close of Business on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date or the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place, even if the Securities are not convertible at that time. No adjustment to the ability of Holders to convert will be made if Holders are entitled to participate in the distribution without conversion.
 
If the transaction also constitutes a "," the Holder can require the Company to purchase all or a portion of its Securities described in paragraph 5.
Change in Control
 
A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Change in Control Purchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to purchase such Security may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
The Initial Conversion Rate is 12.5814 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 Principal Amount, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. The Company will deliver cash or a check in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock.
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Securityholders may surrender the Securities for conversion at any time on or after January 1, 2013, until the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
 
Accrued and unpaid interest will not be paid in cash on Securities that are converted but will be paid in the manner provided in the following paragraph; provided, however, that Securities surrendered for conversion during the period, in the case of interest, from the Close of Business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest Payment Date, shall be entitled to receive such semiannual interest payable on such Securities on the corresponding Interest Payment Date and Securities surrendered for conversion during such periods must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest with respect thereto that the registered Holder is to receive; provided that no such payment need be made (i) in connection with any conversion following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the final Interest Payment Date; (ii) if the Company has specified a Change in Control Purchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date; or (iii) to the extent of Defaulted Interest, if any Defaulted Interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Security.
 
A Holder may convert a portion of a Security if the Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on the Common Stock except as provided in the Indenture. On conversion of a Security, a Securityholder will not receive, except as described herein, any cash payment representing accrued interest. Instead, accrued interest will be deemed paid by the shares of Common Stock (or any cash in lieu thereof) received by the Securityholder on conversion. Delivery to the holder of the full number of shares of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible (or any cash in lieu thereof), together with any cash payment, will be deemed to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay (i) the Principal Amount of the Security and (ii) accrued
 
and unpaid interest, and accrued interest with respect to the converted Security shall not be cancelled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full.
 
The Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for accrued interest.
 
To convert a Security that is represented by a Global Security, a Holder must convert by book-entry transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of the DTC. To convert a Security that is represented by a Certificated Security, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice below and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Conversion Agent, the Company or the Trustee and (4) pay all transfer or similar tax, if required.
 
The Conversion Rate will be adjusted for dividends or distributions on Common Stock payable in Common Stock or other Capital Stock; subdivisions, combinations or certain reclassifications of Common Stock; distributions to all holders of Common Stock of certain rights to purchase Common Stock for a period expiring within 60 days of the record date for such distribution at less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock at the Time of Determination; distributions to such holders of assets (including shares of Capital Stock of a Subsidiary) or debt securities of the Company or certain rights to purchase securities of the Company; cash dividends or cash distributions; and distributions in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer of the Common Stock. However, no adjustment need be made if Securityholders may participate in the transaction or in certain other cases. The Company from time to time may voluntarily increase the Conversion Rate.
 
 
Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Securities, any Defaulted Interest on any Security shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company as provided for in Section 11.02 of the Indenture.
 
 
The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of Principal Amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not register the transfer or exchange of any Securities in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be purchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be purchased).
 
 
The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes.
 
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property laws. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
 
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Securityholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to comply with Article 5 or Section 10.17 of the Indenture, to secure the Company's obligations under this Security or to add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Securityholders or to surrender any right or power conferred, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and any amendment thereof, or as necessary in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act or to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holders.
 
 
Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) default in the payment of interest which becomes due and payable upon exercise by the Company of its option provided for in paragraph 6(a) hereof which default in any such case continues for 30 days; (ii) default in payment of the Principal Amount or Change in Control Purchase Price in respect of the Securities when the same becomes due and payable; (iii) failure by the Company to comply with other agreements in the Indenture or the Securities, subject to notice and lapse of time; (iv) (a) failure of the Company to make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $50.0 million, or (b) the acceleration of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $50.0 million because of a default with respect to such Indebtedness without such Indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, subject to notice and lapse of time; provided, however, that if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (a) or (b) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred; and (v) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, may declare the Principal Amount through the date of such declaration, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the date of such declaration, on all the Securities to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in the Principal Amount on the
 
Securities, and any accrued and unpaid interest through the occurrence of such event, becoming due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
 
Securityholders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Securityholders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of amounts specified in clause (i) or (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
 
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
 
This Security shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security.
 
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
 
THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.
 
The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to:
 
Amgen Inc.
 
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Telephone No.: (805) 447-1000
Facsimile No.: (805) 499-8011
Attention: Treasurer
 
 
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
 
and irrevocably appoint
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                         
 
 
To convert this Security into Common Stock of the Company, check the box:
 
To convert only part of this Security, state the Principal Amount to be converted (which must be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000):
 
$
                                                                         
 
If you want the stock certificate made out in another person's name, fill in the form below:
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Insert other person's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Print or type other person's name, address and zip code)
 
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (the "") is made and entered into this 17
Agreement
th
day of February, 2006, among Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (""), acting on behalf of the several parties named in Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) (collectively, the "").
Company
Morgan Stanley
Initial Purchasers
 
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated February 14, 2006, among the Company and Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, as representatives for the Initial Purchasers (the ""), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of (i) $2,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") and (ii) $2,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "," and together with the shares of Common Stock (as defined below) into which the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes are convertible, the ""). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
2011 Notes
2013 Notes
Securities
 
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1. Definitions.
 
As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
 
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
1933 Act
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended.
1934 Act
 
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
1939 Act
 
"" shall have the meaning given to it in the Purchase Agreement.
Closing Date
 
"" shall mean any shares of common stock, $.0001 par value, of the Company and any other shares of common stock as may constitute "Common Stock" for purposes of the Indentures.
Common Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors.
Company
 
"" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, , that such depositary must have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York.
Depositary
provided, however
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b).
Effectiveness Period
 
"" shall mean the final offering memorandum dated February 14, 2006.
Final Memorandum
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act.
Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" shall mean any Initial Purchaser, for so long as it owns any Registrable Securities, and each of its successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become registered owners of Registrable Securities under the Indentures.
Holder
 
"" shall mean, collectively, the Indenture relating to the 2011 Notes, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, and the Indenture relating to the 2013 Notes, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indentures
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Initial Purchasers
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Liquidated Damages
 
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Registrable Securities (assuming conversion of all Securities into Common Stock); , that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or any Affiliate (as defined in the Indentures) of the Company shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage amount.
Majority Holders
provided
 
"" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
"" shall mean the prospectus relating to the Securities included in a Shelf Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all materials incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchase Agreement
 
"" shall mean all or any of the Securities; , that any such Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have become effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been sold or transferred pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) such Securities have been or may be sold or transferred to the public pursuant to Rule l44 (or any similar provision then in force, including Rule 144(k) but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, or (iii) such Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding.
Registrable Securities
provided, however
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Registration Default
 
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "") registration and filing fees, including, if applicable, the fees and expenses of any "qualified independent underwriter" (and its counsel) that is required to be retained by any holder of Registrable Securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with blue sky qualification of any of the Registrable Securities and any filings with the NASD), (iii) all expenses of the Company in preparing or assisting in preparing, word processing, printing and distributing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange or exchanges, (v) all rating agency fees, if any (vi) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (vii) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, (viii) the reasonable fees and expenses (not to exceed $10,000) of a single counsel to the Holders in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, which counsel shall be selected by the Majority Holders, and (ix) any fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement, but excluding any underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
Registration Expenses
NASD
 
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency or government body performing the functions currently performed by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Securities
 
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.1.
Shelf Registration
 
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.1 of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration
Shelf Registration Statement
 
statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all materials incorporated by reference therein; , that a registration statement shall not be deemed a Shelf Registration Statement until such time as it includes a Prospectus relating to the Securities.
provided, however
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.
Suspension Period
 
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indentures.
Trustee
 
2. .
Registration Under the 1933 Act
 
2.1 .
Shelf Registration
 
(a) The Company shall, at its cost, file with the SEC, and use its reasonable efforts to cause to become effective a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders that have provided the information pursuant to Section 2.1(c) no later than 270 days after the Closing Date.
 
(b) The Company shall, at its cost, use its reasonable efforts, subject to Section 2.5, to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the Closing Date, or until the Securities cease to be Registrable Securities (the "").
Effectiveness Period
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, no Holder of Registrable Securities may include any of its Registrable Securities in the Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless the Holder furnishes to the Company a fully completed notice and questionnaire in the form attached as Annex A to the Final Memorandum (the "") and such other information in writing as the Company may reasonably request in writing for use in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus included therein and in any application to be filed with or under state securities laws. At least 30 days prior to the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company will provide notice to the Holders of its intention to file the Shelf Registration Statement; that if the Company elects to register the Registrable Securities pursuant to a Prospectus to a shelf registration statement that has already been declared effective, the Company will provide notice to the Holders of its intention to file the initial Prospectus at least 30 days prior to such filing. In order to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus at the time of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or such Prospectus, as applicable, each Holder must no later than 20 days following notice by the Company of such filing, furnish the completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, to the Company in writing and the Company will include the information from the completed Questionnaire and such other information, if any, in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, as necessary and in a manner, so that upon effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement the Holder will be permitted to deliver the Prospectus to
Questionnaire
provided, however
 
purchasers of the Holder's Registrable Securities. From and after the date that the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective, upon receipt of a completed Questionnaire and such other information that the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, the Company will use its reasonable efforts to file any amendments or supplements to the Shelf Registration Statement necessary for such Holder to be named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus contained therein to permit such Holder to deliver the Prospectus to purchasers of the Holder's Securities (subject to the Company's right to suspend the Shelf Registration Statement as described in Section 2.5 below); , that the Company shall not be required to file any such amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement until such time as the Company has received completed questionnaires with respect to at least $100 million aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities and in no event more than once in any calendar quarter. Holders that do not deliver a completed written Questionnaire and such other information, as provided for in this Section 2.1(c), will not be named as selling securityholders in the Prospectus. Each Holder named as a selling securityholder in the Prospectus agrees to promptly furnish to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make information previously furnished to the Company by the Holder not materially misleading and any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Holder's Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing.
provided, however
 
(d) Each Holder agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus it will do so only in accordance with Section 2.1(c) and Section 2.5. Each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement without delivering, or causing to be delivered, a Prospectus to the purchaser thereof and, following termination of the Effectiveness Period, to notify the Company, within ten days of a written request by the Company, of the amount of Registrable Securities sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and, in the absence of a response, the Company may assume that all of such Holder's Registrable Securities have been so sold.
 
(e) The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of a majority of the Registrable Securities that are registered under the Shelf Registration Statement at such time or the consent of the managing underwriter in connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, and each Holder represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and any such underwriter, it will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the SEC. The Company represents that any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus will not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus and, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when taken together with the information in the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
The Company agrees to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company if required by the 1933 Act, or to the extent the Company does not reasonably object, as reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers with respect to information relating to such Initial Purchaser or by the Trustee on behalf of the Holders with respect to information relating to such Holder, and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
 
2.2 . The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement.
Expenses
 
2.3 . After a Shelf Registration Statement is effective, if the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Shelf Registration Statement will be deemed not to have been effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement may legally resume.
Effectiveness
 
2.4 . In the event that (a) a Shelf Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC and become effective on or before the 270
Interest
th
calendar day following the Closing Date, (b) after effectiveness, subject to Section 2.5, the Shelf Registration Statement fails to be effective or usable by the Holders without being succeeded within seven business days by a post-effective amendment or a report filed with the SEC pursuant to the 1934 Act that cures the failure to be effective or usable, or (c) the Shelf Registration Statement is unusable by the Holders for any reason, and the number of days for which the Shelf Registration Statement shall not be usable exceeds the Suspension Period (as defined in Section 2.5) (each such event being a ""), additional interest, as liquidated damages (""), will accrue at a rate per annum of 0.125% of the principal amount of the Registrable Securities then remaining for the first 90-day period from the day following the Registration Default, and thereafter at a rate per annum of 0.25% of the principal amount of the Securities; , in no event shall Liquidated Damages accrue at a rate per annum exceeding 0.25% of the issue price of the Securities; that no Liquidated Damages shall accrue after the second anniversary of the Closing Date; that Liquidated Damages shall not accrue under clause (b) and (c) above with respect to any Holder that (x) does not submit a properly completed Questionnaire, and (y) is not named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement. Upon the cure of all Registration Defaults then continuing, the accrual of Liquidated Damages will automatically cease and the interest rate borne by the Securities will revert to the original interest rate at such time. Liquidated Damages shall be computed based on the actual number of days elapsed in each 90-day period in which the Shelf Registration Statement is not effective or is unusable. Holders who have converted Securities into Common Stock will not be entitled to receive any Liquidated Damages with respect to such Common Stock or the issue price of the Securities converted.
Registration Default
Liquidated Damages
provided that
provided further
provided further
 
The Trustee shall be entitled, but shall not be obligated, on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement,
 
including for the payment of any Liquidated Damages. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the sole monetary damages payable for a violation of the terms of this Agreement with respect to which liquidated damages are expressly provided shall be such liquidated damages. Nothing shall preclude a Holder of Registrable Securities from pursuing or obtaining specific performance or equitable relief with regard to this Agreement. Each obligation to pay Liquidated Damages shall be deemed to accrue from and including the day following the Registration Default to but excluding the day on which the Registration Default is cured.
 
A Registration Default under clause (a) above shall be cured on the date that the Shelf Registration Statement is filed and has become effective. A Registration Default under clauses (b) or (c) above shall be cured on the date an amended Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Company otherwise declares the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus useable, as applicable. The Company will have no liabilities for monetary damages other than the Liquidated Damages with respect to any Registration Default.
 
The parties agree that the Liquidated Damages provided for in this Section 2.4 constitute a reasonable estimate of the damages that may be incurred by Holders of Registrable Securities and do not constitute a penalty.
 
2.5 . The Company may suspend the use of any Prospectus, without incurring or accruing any obligation to pay Liquidated Damages pursuant to Section 2.4, for a period not to exceed 90 consecutive calendar days or an aggregate of 120 calendar days in any twelve-month period, (each, a "") if the Company shall have determined in good faith that because of valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including without limitation proposed or pending corporate developments and similar events or because of filings with the SEC, it is in the best interests of the Company to suspend such use, and prior to suspending such use the Company provides the Holders with written notice of such suspension, which notice need not specify the nature of the event giving rise to such suspension. Each Holder shall keep confidential any communications received by it from the Company regarding the suspension of the use of the Prospectus, except as required by applicable law.
Suspension
Suspension Period
 
3. .
Registration Procedures
 
In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Shelf Registration, the Company shall:
 
(a) before filing any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with the SEC, furnish to Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley;
 
(b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective for the Effectiveness Period, subject to Section 2.5; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and use reasonable efforts to comply during the Effectiveness Period with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder required to enable the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof;
 
(c) (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Securities of the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Securities; (ii) during the Effectiveness Period, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities that has provided the information required by Section 2.1(c) and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request in writing, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so requests, all exhibits in connection with the sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) subject to Section 2.5 and to any notice by the Company in accordance with Section 3(e) of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Sections 3(e)(ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi), hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities that has provided the information required by Section 2.1(c) in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein;
 
(d) use reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Holders in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities shall reasonably request in writing, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder and underwriter to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
provided, however
 
(e) notify as promptly as reasonably practicable each Holder of Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration that has provided the information required by Section 2.1(d) and, if requested by such Holder, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Shelf Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments thereto become effective, (ii) of any request, following the
 
effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement under the 1933 Act, by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Shelf Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) of the occurrence (but not the nature of or details concerning) of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (provided, however, that no notice by the Company shall be required pursuant to this clause (iv) in the event that the Company either promptly files a Prospectus supplement to update the Prospectus or a Form 8-K or other appropriate 1933 Act report that is incorporated by reference into the Shelf Registration Statement, which, in either case, contains the requisite information that results in such Shelf Registration Statement no longer containing any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading), (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (vi) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement would be required by applicable law;
 
(f) as promptly as reasonably practicable furnish to Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley as representatives of the Initial Purchasers and one special counsel to the Initial Purchasers on behalf of the Holders (i) copies of any comment letters received from the SEC with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement or any documents incorporated therein and (ii) any other request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus;
 
(g) use reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement at the earliest practicable moment or, if any such order or suspension is made effective during any Suspension Period, at the earliest practicable moment after the Suspension Period;
 
(h) upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(e)(ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi), as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or will remain so qualified. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material
 
fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder that has provided the information required by Section 2.1(c) of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
 
(i) (i) use reasonable efforts to cause the Indentures to be qualified under the 1939 Act in connection with the registration of the Registrable Securities, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indentures as may be required for the Indentures to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the 1939 Act, and (iii) execute, and use reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indentures to be so qualified in a timely manner;
 
(j) enter into such customary agreements and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities, including, but not limited to:
 
(i) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters set forth in the opinion of counsel to the Company delivered at the Closing Date;
 
(ii) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements are, or are required to be, included in the Shelf Registration Statement) addressed to the underwriters, if any, and use reasonable efforts to have such letter addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Securities (to the extent consistent with Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts), such letters substantially in the form and covering the matters covered in the comfort letter delivered on the Closing Date;
 
(iii) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 4 with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section or, at the request of any underwriters, in the form customarily provided to such underwriters in similar types of transactions; and
 
(iv) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings to the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold and the managing underwriters, if any.
 
The above shall be done only in connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities using such Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to an underwriting or similar
 
agreement as and to the extent required thereunder, and as reasonably requested by any of the parties thereto; , that in no event will an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities be made without the prior written agreement of the Company;
provided, however
 
(k) if reasonably requested in connection with a disposition of Registrable Securities, make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and any counsel or accountant retained by any of the foregoing, all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such persons, and cause the appropriate officers, directors and designated employees to make reasonably available for inspection during normal business hours all relevant information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement, and make such representatives of the Company available for discussion of such documents as shall be reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers, in each case as is customary for "due diligence" investigations; such persons shall first agree in writing with the Company that any information that is reasonably designated by the Company as confidential at the time of delivery shall be kept confidential by such persons and shall be used solely for the purposes of exercising rights under this Agreement and such person shall not engage in trading any securities of the Company until such material non-public information becomes properly publicly available, unless (i) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquires of regulatory authorities, (ii) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of any Shelf Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus referred to in this Agreement upon a customary opinion of counsel for such persons delivered and reasonably satisfactory to the Company), (iii) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard by any such person, or (iv) such information becomes available to any such person from a source other than the Company and such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement; , that, the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall, to the greatest extent possible, be coordinated on behalf of all the Holders and the other parties entitled thereto by special counsel to the Holders;
provided that
provided further
 
The above shall be done only in connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Securities using such Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to an underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder, and as reasonably requested by any of the parties thereto; , that in no event will an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities be made without the prior written agreement of the Company;
provided, however
 
(l) at reasonable time prior to filing the Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus (other than amendments and supplements that do nothing more than name Holders and provide information with respect thereto), furnish to Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley as representatives of the Initial Purchasers and one special counsel to the Initial Purchasers copies of all such documents proposed to
 
be filed and use its reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as the Initial Purchasers and such special counsel to the Initial Purchasers reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to the Initial Purchasers and counsel to the Initial Purchasers. In addition, if any Holder that has provided the information required by Section 2.1(c) shall so request in writing, a reasonable time prior to filing any such documents, the Company shall furnish to such Holder copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as such Holder reasonably shall propose within three (3) Business Days of the delivery of such copies to such Holder;
 
(m) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Securities to be listed on any securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which similar debt securities issued by the Company are then listed if requested by the Majority Holders, or if requested by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any;
 
(n) make generally available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, earning statements covering at least 12 months (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder; and
 
(o) make a reasonable effort to provide such information as is required for any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
 
Without limiting the provisions of Section 2.1(c), the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. Each Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company in writing all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not misleading, any other information regarding such Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as may be required to be disclosed in the Shelf Registration Statement under applicable law or pursuant to SEC comments and any information otherwise reasonably required by the Company to comply with applicable law or regulations.
 
Each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(e)(ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi), such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(h) or written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is again effective and no amendment or supplement is needed, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in such Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company. No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
 
4. .
Indemnification; Contribution
 
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, each Holder who has provided information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), each Person who participates as an underwriter (any such Person being an "") and each Person, if any, who controls any such Holder or Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Underwriter
 
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; (subject to Section 4(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
provided that
 
(iii) against any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue
 
statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above;
 
, that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Holder or Underwriter expressly for use in a Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided, however
 
(b) Each Holder who has provided information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Initial Purchaser, each Underwriter and the other selling Holders who have provided information to the Company in accordance with Section 2.1(c), and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser, any Underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a), as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto);
 
(c) The Initial Purchasers agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Holders of Registrable Securities, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any Holder of Registrable Securities within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), or any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
 
(d) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action or proceeding commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the
 
defense of such action; , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying party or parties be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 4 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided, however
 
(e) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 4(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement, provided that an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any such settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (1) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (2) provides written notice to the indemnified party describing any unpaid balance it believes is unreasonable and the reasons therefor, in each case prior to the date of such settlement.
 
(f) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
 
The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, or by the Holders or the
 
Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The Company, the Holders and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any reasonable out-of-pocket legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 4, no Initial Purchaser or Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities sold by such Initial Purchaser or Holder exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser or Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this Section 4, each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser or Holder, and each director of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
 
5. .
Miscellaneous
 
5.1 . The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not for the term of this Agreement conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
5.2 . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities (assuming conversion of all Securities into Common Stock) affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended by a written agreement between
Amendments and Waivers
 
the Company and Merrill Lynch, on behalf of the Initial Purchasers, without the consent of the Holders of the Registrable Securities, in order to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein, provided that no such amendment shall adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Registrable Securities. Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any amendment, modification, waiver or consent pursuant to this Section 5.2, shall be bound by such amendment, modification, waiver or consent, whether or not any notice or writing indicating such amendment, modification, waiver or consent is delivered to such Holder.
 
5.3 . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, facsimile, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company in a Questionnaire or by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3, which address initially is the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement with respect to the Initial Purchasers; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.
Notices
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if sent by facsimile; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an overnight courier.
 
Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications to any Holder shall be deemed to have been duly given, if such notice has been duly given to the Trustee under the Indentures, at the address specified in such Indentures.
 
5.4 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; , nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indentures. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successor and Assigns
provided that
 
5.5 . Each Initial Purchaser (even if such Initial Purchaser is not a Holder of Registrable Securities) shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of Holders hereunder. Each Holder of Registrable Securities shall be a third party beneficiary to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall
Third Party Beneficiaries
 
have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights hereunder.
 
5.6 . Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2.1 may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it may not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, any Initial Purchaser or any Holder may seek such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Sections 2.1.
Specific Enforcement
 
5.7 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
5.8 . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
5.9
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS THEREOF.
GOVERNING LAW
 
5.10 . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
5.11 . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Issuer with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dated February 14, 2006
 
Merrill Lynch & Co.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Lehman Brothers Inc.
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
 
c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
4 World Financial Center
New York, New York 10080
 
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
 
Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (the "") $2,500,000,000 principal amount of its 0.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") to be issued pursuant to the provisions of an Indenture, to be dated as of February 17, 2006 (the ""), between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee (the ""), and $2,500,000,000 principal amount of its 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (the "" and, together with the 2011 Notes, the "") to be issued pursuant to the provisions of an Indenture, to be dated as of February 17, 2006 (the "," and together with the 2011 Notes Indenture, the ""), between the Company and the Trustee. The Securities are convertible, subject to certain conditions as described in the Final Memorandum (as defined below), prior to maturity, into shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 (the ""), of the Company in accordance with the terms of the Securities and the Indentures.
Company
Initial Purchasers
2011 Notes
2011 Notes Indenture
Trustee
2013 Notes
Securities
2013 Notes Indenture
Indentures
Common Stock
 
Pursuant to the transactions contemplated by this purchase agreement (this ""), the Securities will be offered and sold to the Initial Purchasers and reoffered by the Initial Purchasers without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), to qualified institutional buyers in compliance with the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Agreement
Securities Act
 
The Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees ("") will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, to be dated as of February 17, 2006 between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("") and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("") on behalf of the Initial Purchasers (the ""), substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A.
Subsequent Purchasers
Merrill Lynch
Morgan Stanley
Registration Rights Agreement
 
In connection with the offering of the Securities, the Company has prepared a preliminary offering memorandum dated February 13, 2006 (the "") and will prepare a final offering memorandum dated February 14, 2006 (the "" and, together with the Preliminary Memorandum, each a "") including or incorporating by reference a description of the terms of the Securities, the terms of the offering and a description of the Company. As used herein, the term "Memorandum" shall include in each case the documents incorporated by reference therein. The terms "," "" and "" as used herein with respect to a Memorandum shall include all documents deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum or Final Memorandum that are filed subsequent to the date of such Memorandum with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""). "" means, with respect to any date or time referred to in this Agreement, the most recent memorandum (whether the Final Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement to such document), including exhibits thereto and any documents incorporated by reference therein, that has been prepared and delivered by the Company to the Initial Purchasers in connection with their solicitation of purchase of, or offering of, the Securities.
Preliminary Memorandum
Final Memorandum
Memorandum
supplement
amendment
amend
Commission
Exchange Act
Memorandum
 
1. Representations and Warranties. (a) The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, you that as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date:
 
(i) As of the Applicable Time (as defined below), neither (x) the Preliminary Memorandum as of the Applicable Time as supplemented by the final pricing term sheet, in the form attached hereto as Schedule B (the ""), that has been prepared and delivered by the Company to the Initial Purchasers in connection with their solicitation of offers to purchase Securities, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (y) any individual Supplemental Offering Materials (as defined below), when considered together with the Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. "" means 9:00 am (Eastern time) on February 15, 2006 or such other time as agreed by the Company and Merrill Lynch.
Pricing Supplement
Disclosure Package
Applicable Time
 
"" means any "written communication" (within the meaning of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "")) prepared by or on behalf of the Company, or used or referred to by the Company, that constitutes an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities other than the Memorandum or amendments or supplements thereto (including the Pricing Supplement), including, without limitation, any road show relating to the Securities that constitutes such a written communication. The Company and each Initial Purchaser agree that no offering of the Securities will be made by the Company or any Initial Purchaser with any "written
Supplemental Offering Materials
1933 Act Regulations
 
communication" (within the meaning of the 1933 Act Regulations other than such Supplemental Offering Materials) without the prior written agreement of the Company, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, other than as disclosed to the Company; , that prior to the preparation of the Pricing Supplement, the Initial Purchasers are authorized to use the information to be set forth in the Pricing Supplement in communications conveying information relating to the offering to investors.
provided, however
 
As of its issue date and as of the Closing Time, the Final Memorandum will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
The representation and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Initial Purchaser expressly for use therein.
 
(ii) The Memorandum as delivered from time to time shall incorporate by reference the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004; the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005, and September 30, 2005; the Company's Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on January 31, 2005, March 4, 2005, March 11, 2005, April 6, 2005, April 22, 2005 (only that Current Report filed pursuant to Items 2.02, 8.01 and 9.01), April 25, 2005, May 5, 2005, May 6, 2005, July 14, 2005, August 10, 2005, October 20, 2005, November 22, 2005, December 8, 2005, December 15, 2005 and February 13, 2006; and the description of the Company's common stock, contractual contingent payment rights and preferred share purchase rights contained in the Company's registration statements on Form 8-A filed with the Commission on September 7, 1983 and April 1, 1993, and on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 28, 1997 and December 18, 2000, respectively, including any amendment or report filed for the purpose of updating that description. The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Memorandum at the time they were or hereafter are filed, or, if amended, as so amended, with the Commission complied and, with respect to future filings, will comply, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, and, when read together with the other information in the Memorandum, at the date of the Memorandum and at the Closing Date, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading.
 
(iii) Ernst & Young, LLP, which has audited certain consolidated financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries to be incorporated by reference in the Memorandum, are independent registered public accountants with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the 1933 Act Regulations.
 
(iv) The consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Company's
 
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, each of which is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003, at September 30, 2005 and 2004, at June 30, 2005 and 2004 and at March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and the statements of operations and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, for each of the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (""). The related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
GAAP
 
(v) Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum, except as otherwise stated therein, (A) there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition or in the earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, (B) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (C) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock not described in the Final Memorandum.
 
(vi) Each of the Company, Amgen Manufacturing, Limited, a Bermuda corporation (""), and Immunex Corporation, a Washington corporation ("" and, together with Amgen Manufacturing, the ""), has been duly incorporated or organized and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated, chartered or organized with the corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation or organization and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction which requires such qualification, except, in each case, where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise (a "").
Amgen Manufacturing
Immunex
Significant Subsidiaries
Material Adverse Effect
 
(vii) All the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the Significant Subsidiaries have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and nonassessable, and, except as may be otherwise set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Significant Subsidiaries are owned by the Company either directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, claim or equity; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Significant Subsidiaries was issued in violation of the preemptive or similar rights of any securityholder of either Significant Subsidiary.
 
(viii) Neither of the Significant Subsidiaries is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other
 
distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as may be described in or contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and except as would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(ix) The unaudited consolidated capitalization of the Company as of December 31, 2005 is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization." The outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and nonassessable; none of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company was issued in violation of the preemptive or similar rights of any security holder of the Company.
 
(x) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(xi) At the Closing Date, the Indentures will have been duly authorized by the Company, and when duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indentures by the Trustee, will be valid and binding agreements of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except (A) to the extent that a waiver of rights under any usury laws may be unenforceable and as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (B) as rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability, whether or not enforcement is sought at law or in equity.
 
(xii) At the Closing Date, the Registration Rights Agreement will have been duly authorized by the Company and, when executed and delivered by the Company, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Registration Rights Agreement by the Initial Purchasers, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except (A) as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally, (B) as rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability, whether or not enforcement is sought at law or in equity and (C) as rights to indemnification or contribution may be limited by federal or state securities laws or public policy considerations.
 
(xiii) The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company, and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indentures and delivered against payment of the Purchase Price (as defined below) therefore as provided in this Agreement, will be the valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except (A) to the extent that a waiver of rights under any usury laws may be unenforceable and as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or
 
affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and remedies generally and (B) as rights of acceleration and the availability of equitable remedies may be limited by equitable principles of general applicability, whether or not enforcement is sought at law or in equity. At the Closing Date, the Securities will be in the form contemplated by, and will be entitled to the benefits of, the applicable Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
(xiv) The Securities, the Indentures and the Registration Rights Agreement will conform in all material respects to the respective statements relating thereto contained in the Memorandum.
 
(xv) The Common Stock conforms in all material respects to the descriptions relating thereto under the caption "Description of Capital Stock  Common Stock" set forth in the Memorandum. The shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon such conversion by all necessary corporate action of the Company and such shares, when issued upon conversion in accordance with the terms of the Securities, will be validly issued and will be fully paid and non-assessable; and the issuance of such shares upon conversion will not be subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any security holder of the Company.
 
(xvi) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound, or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, except for such defaults that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xvii) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indentures, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Securities will not contravene any provision of (A) the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, (B) any agreement or other instrument binding upon the Company or its business or assets that is material to the financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, (C) applicable law and (D) any judgment, order, decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or its business or assets.
 
(xviii) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries which might reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which might reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the properties or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder. The aggregate of all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their respective property or assets is the subject which are not described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, including ordinary routine
 
litigation incidental to the business, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xix) The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks and trade names (collectively, "") which in each case are material to the financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise and, except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries has received any notice of any infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any Intellectual Property, which infringement or conflict, singly or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property
 
(xx) No consent, approval, authorization or order of or qualification with any governmental body or agency is required for the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indentures or in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Securities, except such as have been already obtained or will have been obtained prior to the Closing Date.
 
(xxi) The Company has all necessary consents, authorizations, approvals, orders, certificates and permits of and from (collectively, ""), and has made all declarations and filings with, all federal, state, local and other governmental authorities, all self-regulatory organizations and all courts and other tribunals, to own, lease, license and use its properties and assets and to conduct its business in the manner described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, except to the extent that the failure to obtain or file would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and the Company has not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Permits which, singly or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Governmental Permits
 
(xxii) Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and except as would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, ""), (B) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigations or proceedings
Hazardous Materials
Environmental Laws
 
relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that might reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or any Environmental Laws.
 
(xxiii) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any Federal or state law or regulation relating to occupational safety and health or to the storage, handling and transportation of hazardous or toxic materials; the Company and each of its subsidiaries have received all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Federal and state occupational safety and health laws and environmental laws and regulations to conduct their respective businesses, and the Company and each such subsidiary is in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or approval, except any such violation of law or regulation, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such permits, licenses or approvals that would not, singly or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, except as described in or contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum.
 
(xxiv) The Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
 
(xxv) The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum, will not be an "investment company," or an entity "controlled" by an investment company, as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(xxvi) The Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are reasonable and consistent with sound business practice.
 
(xxvii) Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates, as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D under the Securities Act (each, an ""), has, directly or indirectly, solicited any offer to buy, sold or offered to sell or otherwise negotiated in respect of, or will solicit any offer to buy or offer to sell or otherwise negotiate in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act) that is or would be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner that would require the Securities to be registered under the Securities Act.
Affiliate
 
(xxviii) The Securities are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act and will not be, at the Closing Date, of the same class as securities listed on a
 
national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act, or quoted in a U.S. automated interdealer quotation system.
 
(xxix) None of the Company, any of its Affiliates or any person acting on its or any of their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers and their Affiliates, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has engaged or will engage, in connection with the offering of the Securities, in any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) of Regulation D under the Securities Act or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
 
(xxx) Subject to compliance by the Initial Purchasers with the representations, warranties and agreements set forth in Section 7, it is not necessary in connection with the offer, sale and delivery of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers and to each Subsequent Purchaser in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum to register the Securities under the Securities Act.
 
(xxxi) The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(xxxii) There are no persons with registration rights or other similar rights to have any securities included in any registration statement filed pursuant to a registration agreement or in any offering made pursuant to such registration statement.
 
(b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Initial Purchasers or counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with the issuance of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to the Initial Purchasers.
Officer's Certificate
 
2. . The Company hereby agrees to sell to the several Initial Purchasers, and each Initial Purchaser, upon the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained, but subject to the conditions hereinafter stated, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite its name in Schedule A hereto and the Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that the Company shall receive 98.25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (the ""), plus accrued interest, if any, from the Closing Date.
Agreements to Sell and Purchase
Purchase Price
 
During a period of 60 days from the date of the Final Memorandum, except as contemplated by the Final Memorandum, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, directly or indirectly, (i) issue, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant for the sale of, or lend or otherwise dispose of or transfer any shares of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for or repayable with Common Stock or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for or repayable with Common Stock, whether any swap or transaction is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to (A) the
 
Securities to be sold hereunder, (B) the issuance of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (or the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion of such shares) pursuant to the Company's Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of December 12, 2000, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as rights agent, (C) any shares of Common Stock issued by the Company upon (1) the exercise of an option or warrant or upon the conversion of a security outstanding on the date hereof, (2) the conversion of the Company's Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2032 or Zero Coupon Convertible Notes due 2032 or (3) the conversion of the Securities, or (D) any shares of Common Stock issued or options to purchase Common Stock granted pursuant to employee benefit plans or director compensation plans of the Company in any case whether now existing or hereafter assumed, adopted or authorized or (E) shares issued in connection with the settlement of advanced share repurchase plans used by the Company to effectuate its stock repurchase plan.
 
3. . You have advised the Company that the Initial Purchasers will make an offering of the Securities purchased by the Initial Purchasers hereunder on the terms to be set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, as soon as practicable after this Agreement is entered into as in your reasonable judgment is advisable and that it is the intention of the Initial Purchasers not to hold any Securities after the Closing Date.
Terms of Offering
 
4. . Payment for the Securities shall be made to the Company in Federal or other funds immediately available in New York City against delivery of such Securities for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on February 17, 2006, or at such other time on the same or such other date as shall be agreed by the parties. The time and date of such payment are hereinafter referred to as the "."
Payment and Delivery
Closing Date
 
Certificates for the Securities shall be in global form and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depository Trust Company. The certificates evidencing the Securities shall be delivered to the Trustee on the Closing Date for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers, with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the transfer of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers duly paid, against payment of the Purchase Price therefor plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of payment and delivery.
 
5. . The several obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date is subject to the following conditions:
Conditions to the Initial Purchasers' Obligations
 
(a) Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
 
(i) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded of any of the Company's securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and
 
(ii) there shall not have been, since the date of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum, any material adverse change in the financial condition or in the earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(b) The Initial Purchasers shall have received on the Closing Date a certificate, dated the Closing Date and signed by the chief executive officer or the chief financial officer of the Company, to the effect set forth in Section 5(a)(i) and to the effect that (i) the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date and (ii) the Company has complied in all material respects with all of the agreements and satisfied in all material respects all of the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder on or before the Closing Date.
 
The officer signing and delivering such certificate may rely upon the best of his or her knowledge as to proceedings threatened.
 
(c) The Initial Purchasers shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion or opinions and a negative assurances letter of Latham & Watkins LLP, outside counsel for the Company, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the forms set forth in Exhibit B.
 
(d) The Initial Purchasers shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of Latham & Watkins LLP, special tax counsel for the Company, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit C.
 
(e) The Initial Purchasers shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of the Company's general counsel or any assistant general counsel, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit D.
 
(f) The Initial Purchasers shall have received on the Closing Date an opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, dated the Closing Date, covering the matters set forth in Exhibit E.
 
(g) The Initial Purchasers shall have received on the date hereof a letter, dated the date hereof, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in or incorporated by reference into the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and on the Closing Date, the Initial Purchasers shall have received a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter dated the date hereof.
 
6. . In further consideration of the agreements of the Initial Purchasers contained in this Agreement, the Company covenants with each Initial Purchaser as follows:
Covenants of the Company
 
(a) To furnish to you in New York City, without charge, prior to 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement and during
 
the period mentioned in Section 6(c), as many copies of the Final Memorandum, and any supplements and amendments thereto as you may reasonably request.
 
(b) Before amending or supplementing any Memorandum, to furnish to you a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement and not to use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which you reasonably object.
 
(c) If, at any time prior to the completion of the resale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers, any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the reasonable opinion of the Initial Purchasers or counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to amend or supplement the Final Memorandum in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Final Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if, in the reasonable opinion of counsel for the Initial Purchasers, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Final Memorandum to comply with applicable law, forthwith to prepare and furnish, at its own expense, to the Initial Purchasers, either amendments or supplements to the Final Memorandum so that the statements in the Final Memorandum as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances when the Final Memorandum is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Final Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
 
(d) To endeavor to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as you shall reasonably request , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), (ii) file any general consent to service of process, (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject or (iv) make any changes to its certificate of incorporation or bylaws.
provided, however
 
(e) Whether or not the transactions contemplated in this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, to pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including: (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and the Company's accountants in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities and all other fees or expenses of the Company in connection with the preparation of each Memorandum and all amendments and supplements thereto, including all printing costs associated therewith, and the delivering of copies thereof to the Initial Purchasers, in the quantities herein above specified, (ii) all costs and expenses related to the preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers, or the issuance or delivery of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof, including any transfer or other taxes payable thereon, (iii) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Securities and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion for offer and sale under state securities laws as provided in Section 6(d), including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with such qualification and in connection with the preparation of any Blue Sky or legal investment memorandum, (iv) any fees charged by rating agencies for the rating of the Securities, (v) the costs and charges of the Trustee, and (vi) all other cost and expenses incident to the performance of the obligations of the Company hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. It is understood, however, that except as provided in clause (iii) of this Section 8, and the last paragraph of Section 10, the
 
Initial Purchasers will pay all of their costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of their counsel, transfer taxes payable on resale of any of the Securities by them and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
 
(f) Not to, and to cause its Affiliates not to, sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of any security (as defined in the Securities Act) which could be integrated with the sale of the Securities in a manner which would require the registration under the Securities Act of the Securities.
 
(g) Not to solicit any offer to buy or offer or sell the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Securities Act) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
 
(h) While any of the Securities remain "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) of the Securities Act, to make available, upon request, to any seller of such Securities the information specified in Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act, unless the Company is then subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(i) During the period of two years after the Closing Date, the Company will not, and will not permit any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act) to resell any of the Securities which constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 that have been reacquired by any of them.
 
7. . Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants that such Initial Purchaser is a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a ""). Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, agrees with the Company that (i) it has not and will not solicit offers for, or offer or sell, such Securities by any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Securities Act) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, (ii) it has and will solicit offers for such Securities only from, and will offer such Securities only to, persons that it reasonably believes to be QIBs that, in purchasing such Securities are deemed to have represented and agreed as provided in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum under the caption "Transfer Restrictions," and (iii) it will otherwise act in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Memorandum in connection with the placement of the Securities contemplated hereby.
Offering of Securities; Restrictions on Transfer
QIB
 
8. . (a) The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Initial Purchaser may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum and any Supplemental Offering Materials relating to the Securities, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse such Initial
Indemnity and Contribution
 
Purchaser for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum and any Supplemental Offering Materials relating to the Securities, or in any such amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Initial Purchaser expressly for use therein.
provided, however
 
(b) Each Initial Purchaser will indemnify and hold harmless the Company against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum and any Supplemental Offering Materials relating to the Securities, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum and any Supplemental Offering Materials relating to the Securities, or any such amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Initial Purchaser expressly for use therein; and will reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred.
 
(c) As promptly as reasonably practical after receipt by an indemnified party under paragraph (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it of its obligations (i) under paragraph (a) or (b), as applicable, of this Section 8 unless and only to the extent that the indemnifying party is materially prejudiced by the failure to notify, or (ii) from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under such applicable subsection. In case any such action shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, and retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (1) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (2) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would, in the written opinion of legal
 
counsel to the indemnified party, be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them.
 
It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all such indemnified parties and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Such firm shall be designated in writing by Merrill Lynch or, if Merrill Lynch is not an indemnified party and is not reasonably likely to become an indemnified party, by the Initial Purchasers that are indemnified parties, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to paragraph (a) above, and by the Company, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to paragraph (b) above. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
 
(d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and each Initial Purchaser on the other from the offering of the Securities to which such loss, claim, damage or liability (or action in respect thereof) relates. If, however, the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to such amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and each Initial Purchaser on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and each Initial Purchaser on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the sale of Securities (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total commissions and discounts received by such Initial Purchaser in respect thereof. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or by any Initial Purchaser on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and each Initial Purchaser agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this subsection (d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if all Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred
 
to above in this subsection (d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above in this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), an Initial Purchaser shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities that were offered and sold to the public through such Initial Purchaser exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The obligations of each of the Initial Purchasers under this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to the respective purchases made by or through each such Initial Purchaser to which such loss, claim, damage or liability (or action in respect thereof) relates and are not joint.
 
(e) The obligations of the Company under this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act; and the obligations of each Initial Purchaser under this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liability which such Initial Purchaser may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Company and to each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act.
 
9. . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the Initial Purchasers' absolute discretion, by written notice to the Company, if (a) after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on or by, as the case may be, any of the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., (ii) trading of any securities of the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market, (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in New York shall have been declared by either Federal or New York State authorities, or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis that, in the judgment of the Initial Purchasers, is material and adverse and (b) in the case of any of the events specified in clauses (a)(i) through (iv), such event, singly or together with any other such event, makes it, in the judgment of the Initial Purchasers, impracticable to market the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum.
Termination
 
10. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution and delivery hereof by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness; Defaulting Initial Purchasers
 
If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Initial Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Securities which such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase is not more than one-tenth of the aggregate
 
principal amount of Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Initial Purchasers shall be obligated severally in the proportions that the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule I bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, or in such other proportions as you may specify, to purchase the Securities which such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date; that in no event shall the principal amount of Securities that any Initial Purchaser has agreed to purchase pursuant to this Agreement be increased pursuant to this Section 10 by an amount in excess of one-ninth of such principal amount of Securities without the written consent of such Initial Purchaser. If, on the Closing Date any Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities which it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date and the aggregate principal amount of Securities with respect to which such default occurs is more than one-tenth of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to you and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Initial Purchaser or of the Company. In any such case either you or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days, in order that the required changes, if any, in the Final Memorandum or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Any action taken under this paragraph shall not relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser from liability in respect of any default of such Initial Purchaser under this Agreement.
provided
 
If this Agreement shall be terminated by the Initial Purchasers, or any of them, because of any failure or refusal on the part of the Company to comply with the terms or to fulfill any of the conditions of this Agreement, or if for any reason the Company shall be unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Initial Purchasers or such Initial Purchasers as have so terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves, severally, for all out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and disbursements of their counsel) reasonably incurred by such Initial Purchasers in connection with this Agreement or the offering contemplated hereunder.
 
11. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
12. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, including, without limitation, Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law.
Applicable Law
 
13. . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
14. . Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Agreement to sections are to the sections of this Agreement.
Section References
 
15. . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the construction hereof.
Headings
 
16. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be directed to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated at 4 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10080 (facsimile no. 310-209-3940), Attention: Harry McMahon, with a copy to Shearman & Sterling LLP at 525 Market Street, San Francisco, California 94105 (facsimile no. 415-616-1199), Attention: John D. Wilson; notices to the Company shall be directed to it at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320-1799 (facsimile no. 805-499-8011), Attention: Corporate Secretary, with a copy to Latham & Watkins LLP, 633 West Fifth Street, Suite 4000, Los Angeles, California 90071 (facsimile no. 213-891-8763), Attention: Scott Hodgkins and Greg Rodgers.
Notice
 
17. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Initial Purchaser is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, or its stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Initial Purchaser has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Initial Purchaser has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Initial Purchaser has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Initial Purchasers and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of each of the Company, and (e) the Initial Purchasers have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
18. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2011 Notes Make-Whole Table:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 Notes Make-Whole Table:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


