FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20070412060850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 10, 2007, Richard D. Nanula, gave notice of his resignation as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Amgen Inc. (the "Company") effective as of that day. Mr. Nanula will remain at the Company for the next 90 days to assist in a transition.
On April 10, 2007, the Company announced the appointment of Robert A. Bradway to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Bradway, age 44, joined the Company in 2006 as vice president, Operations Strategy. Previously, Mr. Bradway had an 18 year career at Morgan Stanley in New York and London where he was a managing director in investment banking. Mr. Bradway led Morgan Stanley's healthcare practice in Europe for several years and also ran Morgan Stanley's European banking department. Mr. Bradway assumed the Chief Financial Officer position on April 10, 2007.
In connection with Mr. Bradway's appointment as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, he will receive base compensation of $750,000 and be eligible to receive a bonus, targeted at 70% of base compensation. In addition, Mr. Bradway will receive a grant of 60,000 stock options to be issued pursuant to the Company's equity plans.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Nanula's resignation and Mr. Bradway's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (April 10, 2007)  Amgen (NASDAQ: AMGN) today announced the appointment of Robert Bradway as executive vice president and chief financial officer. He will be responsible for Amgen's finance, strategy and investor relations operations. Bradway replaces Richard Nanula, who is leaving the company to pursue other opportunities.
Bradway, 44, joined Amgen in 2006 as vice president, Operations Strategy. Prior to joining the company, he spent 18 years at Morgan Stanley in New York and London, where he was a managing director in investment banking. Bradway led Morgan Stanley's healthcare practice in Europe for several years and also ran the company's European banking department.
"Bob brings nearly 20 years of corporate finance experience to his new role and we are delighted to have him as part of our executive team," said Kevin Sharer, Amgen's chairman and chief executive officer.
Nanula will remain at Amgen for the next 90 days to assist in the transition. "Richard has played an important role in Amgen's growth during the past six years, and I deeply appreciate his service to the company," said Sharer.
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe and effective medicines from lab, to manufacturing plant, to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious illnesses. Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and our vital medicines, visit
.
www.amgen.com
CONTACT: Amgen, Thousand Oaks
David Polk, 805-447-4613 (media)
John Shutter, 805-447-1060 (investors)


