FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20070302155602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On March 1, 2007, at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, the right of the holders of the Company's Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2032 (Zero CouponSenior) (the "") to surrender LYONs for purchase (the "") by Amgen Inc. (the "") expired pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, dated as of March 1, 2002, as amended, between the Company and LaSalle Bank National Association, as trustee (the "").
LYONs
LYONs Put Option
Company
Trustee
The Company has been advised by LaSalle Bank National Association, as paying agent (the ""), that LYONs with an aggregate principal amount at maturity of approximately $8.9 million were validly surrendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the LYONs Put Option. The Company has accepted for purchase all of the LYONs validly surrendered and not withdrawn. The purchase price for the LYONs pursuant to the LYONs Put Option was $755.44 in cash per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. Accordingly, the aggregate purchase price for all the LYONs validly surrendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the LYONs Put Option was approximately $6.7 million. The Company has forwarded cash in payment of the purchase price to the Paying Agent to distribute to holders exercising their put option. After the purchase pursuant to the LYONs Put Option, approximately $1.8 million principal amount at maturity of the LYONs remains outstanding.
Paying Agent
On March 1, 2007, at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, the right of the holders of the Company's Zero Coupon Convertible Notes due 2032 (Zero CouponSenior) (the "") to surrender Zeros for purchase (the "") by the Company expired pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, dated as of May 6, 2005, between the Company and the Trustee.
Zeros
Zeros Put Option
The Company has been advised by the Paying Agent that Zeros with an aggregate principal amount at maturity of approximately $2.24 billion were validly surrendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the Zeros Put Option. The Company has accepted for purchase all of the Zeros validly surrendered and not withdrawn. The purchase price for the Zeros pursuant to the Zeros Put Option was $755.44 in cash per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. Accordingly, the aggregate purchase price for all the Zeros validly surrendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the Zeros Put Option was approximately $1.70 billion. The Company has forwarded cash in payment of the purchase price to the Paying Agent to distribute to the holders exercising their put option. After the purchase pursuant to the Zeros Put Option, approximately $103.3 million principal amount at maturity of the Zeros remains outstanding.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


