FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20070802212607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Departure of Directors or Certain Officers.
On July 31, 2007, Dennis M. Fenton announced his decision to retire and resign from his position of Executive Vice President, Operations of Amgen Inc. (the "Company") effective as of August 1, 2007. He will remain at the Company until December 31, 2007 to assist in a transition.
(c) Appointment of Certain Officers.
On August 1, 2007, the Company announced the appointment of Fabrizio Bonanni to serve as Executive Vice President, Operations of the Company, effective as of that day. Dr. Bonanni, age 60, has served as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing of the Company since 2004. Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance and Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously, Dr. Bonanni held various management positions at Baxter International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and Corporate Vice President, Quality Systems.
A copy of the press release announcing Dr. Fenton's retirement and resignation and Dr. Bonanni's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (Aug. 1, 2007)  Amgen (NASDAQ: AMGN) today announced that Dennis Fenton, executive vice president of Operations, has elected to retire at the end of 2007, after 25 years with the company. Fenton, 55, is one of Amgen's longest-tenured staff members, joining the company during its first 12 months. A research scientist by training, Fenton worked in and led virtually every part of Amgen over the years including Research, Process Development, Sales and Marketing, Engineering and Manufacturing.
"Dennis will be deeply missed by all of us who have had the pleasure to work with him over the years. He has been one of the greatest champions of the Amgen values and a true ambassador of our heritage," said Amgen Chairman and CEO Kevin Sharer. "As head of Operations, Dennis helped build the most reliable, efficient and skilled biotechnology manufacturing operation in the world. For that achievement, among many others, we are eternally grateful."
Succeeding Fenton as head of Operations, effective immediately, will be Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni. Since March 2003, Bonanni has been Amgen's senior vice president of Manufacturing, overseeing the company's site operations and contract manufacturing. Previously, he was Amgen's senior vice president, Quality and Compliance, and corporate compliance officer. Before joining Amgen, Bonanni was corporate vice president, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs, and corporate vice president, Quality System for Baxter International Inc.
"One of Dennis' legacies is the depth and breadth of leadership within our manufacturing organization. We are pleased to have an executive of Fabrizio's
DENNIS FENTON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF OPERATIONS, ELECTS TO RETIRE AFTER 25 YEARS WITH AMGEN
Page 2
experience in a position to effect a smooth leadership transition in one of Amgen's most critical areas," said Sharer.
Succeeding Bonanni as senior vice president, Manufacturing will be Madhu Balachandran, who was previously vice president, operations at Amgen Manufacturing, Ltd. in Juncos, Puerto Rico.
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe, effective medicines from lab, to manufacturing plant, to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious illnesses. With a deep and broad pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and our vital medicines, visit .
www.amgen.com
CONTACT: Amgen, Thousand Oaks
David Polk, 805-447-4613 (media)
John Shutter, 805-447-1060 (investors)


