FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20080818170644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
On August 15, 2008, Amgen Inc. (the "Company") received notice from the administrator of the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan (the "Plan") that in order to transfer the administration of the Plan to a new service provider, Plan participants will be unable to direct or diversify investments in the Plan during the period which is expected to run from 1:00 p.m., Pacific Time, on September 30, 2008 through October 8, 2008 (the "Plan Blackout Period").
On August 18, 2008, in accordance with Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR, the Company sent a blackout trading restriction notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that they would be prohibited during the Plan Blackout Period from purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring or transferring, directly or indirectly, any equity security of the Company acquired in connection with their employment as an officer or services as a director.
A copy of the blackout trading restriction notice to directors and executive officers of the Company, which includes the information required by Rule 104(b) of Regulation BTR, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Memorandum
 
 
 
Blackout Period for Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan
As you are aware, we will transfer the trustee and recordkeeping duties for the Amgen Retirement and Savings Plan (the "Plan") to a new service provider, Merrill Lynch. The transfer is expected to be effective October 8, 2008. In order to implement the transfer, Plan activity will be suspended so that Plan participants will be unable to access their account, change investment directions, make transfers within the Plan for the period of time specified below (the "Plan Blackout Period").
The Plan Blackout Period is expected to run from 1:00 p.m., Pacific Time, on September 30, 2008 through and including October 8, 2008 (the "Plan Blackout Period").
Prohibited Transactions by Directors and Executive Officers during the Plan Blackout Period
In accordance with Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR, during the Plan Blackout Period, directors and executive officers of the Company are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions involving the Company's equity securities.
During the Plan Blackout Period, you are prohibited from directly or indirectly, purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring any "equity security" of the Company if you acquired those equity securities in connection with your service as a director or employment as an officer. "Equity securities" are defined broadly to include the Company's common stock, stock options, restricted stock units and any other derivatives based on Company common stock. The following are examples of transactions that you may engage in during the Plan Blackout Period:
not
 
 
 
There are certain limited transactions which are exempt from these rules under Rule 104 of Regulation BTR, including bona fide gifts and bequests, and transfers pursuant to domestic relations orders.
These rules apply in addition to the trading restrictions under the Company's Insider Trading Policy. If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you may be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction, and you may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
In light of the complexity of these rules and the severity of the penalties and other remedies, you are requested to consult with the following designated member of the Law Department before taking any action with respect to equity securities while the Plan Blackout Period is in effect, or if you have any other inquiries about the status of the Plan Blackout Period:
Andrea Robinson
Tel. (805) 447-4734
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
Thank you.


