FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20080114172338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 8, 2008, Amgen Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release in connection with its presentation to investors at the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference in which it provided updated 2007 adjusted earnings per share ("EPS") guidance for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company said that, despite regulatory and reimbursement changes affecting sales of Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agent ("ESA") products, it expects the Company's 2007 adjusted EPS to be above the Company's previously announced October 24, 2007 guidance range of $4.13 - $4.23, and close to the low end of the Company's January 25, 2007 adjusted EPS guidance of $4.30 - $4.50, excluding stock option expense and certain other expenses.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (Jan. 8, 2007)  Amgen (NASDAQ:AMGN) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kevin Sharer in a presentation to investors at today's JP Morgan Healthcare Conference, said that, despite regulatory and reimbursement changes affecting sales of Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agent (ESA) products, the Company expects 2007 adjusted earnings per share (EPS) to be above its previously announced (Oct. 24, 2007) guidance range of $4.13 - $4.23, and close to the low end of the Company's Jan. 25, 2007 adjusted EPS guidance of $4.30 - $4.50, excluding stock option expense and certain other expenses. Sharer stated that ESA revenue is currently stable, but acknowledged that the ESA dialogue is not over and 2008 may bear further changes. The Company also announced it expects the rest of its marketed products to come in at or slightly above its October internal projections for the full year.
Additionally at the conference, Sharer reported that Amgen advanced 13 new molecules into development in 2007, and that 10 molecules are planned to move into mid-stage trials in 2008.
Amgen reported it has effectively implemented cost actions, including reducing staff by approximately 13 percent. The Company provided an outlook for adjusted 2008 expenses, including that:
 
 
 
 
Sharer said that the Company continues to work closely with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory agencies to explore the risks and benefits of ESAs. The Company is committed to full transparency and to ensuring that the information contained in its labels accurately reflects the current state of knowledge about the safety of these important products.
AMGEN UPDATES 2007 ADJUSTED EPS GUIDANCE AND OUTLINES 2008 EXPENSE OUTLOOK AT THE JP MORGAN HEALTHCARE CONFERENCE
Page 2
 
As previously announced, the Company has posted in the Investors section of the Company's Web site () a slide presentation related to its presentation at JP Morgan Healthcare Conference; additionally, a rebroadcast of the audio webcast will be available.
www.amgen.com/investors
Forward Looking Statement
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and others that can be found in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this news release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those we project. The Company's results may be affected by our ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally, clinical and regulatory developments (domestic or foreign) involving current and future products, sales growth of recently launched products, competition from other products (domestic or foreign) and difficulties or delays in manufacturing our products. In addition, sales of our products are affected by reimbursement policies imposed by third-party payors, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, clinical and guideline developments and domestic and international trends toward managed care and health care cost containment as well as U.S. legislation affecting pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement. Government and others' regulations and reimbursement policies may affect the development, usage and pricing of our products. Furthermore, our research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. We or others could identify safety, side effects or manufacturing problems with our products after they are on the market. Our business may be impacted by government investigations, litigation and product liability claims. Further, while we routinely obtain patents for our products and technology, the protection offered by our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. We depend on third parties for a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity for the supply of certain of our current and future products and limits on supply may constrain sales of certain of our current products and product candidate development. In addition, we compete with other companies with respect to some of our marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new products. Discovery or identification of new product candidates cannot be guaranteed and movement from concept to product is uncertain; consequently, there can be no guarantee that any particular product candidate will be successful and become a commercial product. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and component parts for our products are supplied by sole third-party suppliers.
AMGEN UPDATES 2007 ADJUSTED EPS GUIDANCE AND OUTLINES 2008 EXPENSE OUTLOOK AT THE JP MORGAN HEALTHCARE CONFERENCE
Page 3
 
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe and effective medicines from lab, to manufacturing plant, to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious illnesses. With a deep and broad pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and our vital medicines, visit .
www.amgen.com
CONTACT: Amgen, Thousand Oaks
David Polk, 805-447-4613 or 805-490-0661 (media)
Arvind Sood, 805-447-1060 (investors)
AMGEN UPDATES 2007 ADJUSTED EPS GUIDANCE AND OUTLINES 2008 EXPENSE OUTLOOK AT THE JP MORGAN HEALTHCARE CONFERENCE
Page 4
 
Amgen Inc.
Reconciliation of "Adjusted" Earnings Per Share Guidance to GAAP
Earnings Per Share Guidance for the Year Ending December 31, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMGEN UPDATES 2007 ADJUSTED EPS GUIDANCE AND OUTLINES 2008 EXPENSE OUTLOOK AT THE JP MORGAN HEALTHCARE CONFERENCE
Page 5
 
Amgen Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP to "Adjusted" Cost of Sales
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
AMGEN UPDATES 2007 ADJUSTED EPS GUIDANCE AND OUTLINES 2008 EXPENSE OUTLOOK AT THE JP MORGAN HEALTHCARE CONFERENCE
Page 6
 
Amgen Inc.
Reconciliation of Selected GAAP Operating Expense Amounts to "Adjusted" Amounts
(In millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 


