FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20090508172628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2009, at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the stockholders of Amgen Inc. (the "Company") approved the adoption of the Amgen Inc. 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2009 Plan"). The 2009 Plan replaces the Company's existing equity plans and the Company's equity compensation plans established for the Company's foreign affiliates (the "Prior Plans"
1
). After May 6, 2009, no further awards will be made under the Prior Plans.
A summary of the principal provisions of the 2009 Plan is set forth below. This summary is qualified by reference to the full text of the 2009 Plan, which is incorporated by this reference to Appendix A of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 2009.
Administration
The 2009 Plan will be administered by the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"). Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Compensation Committee shall consist solely of two or more directors appointed by the Board, each of whom is an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), a "non-employee director" within the meaning of the rules under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and an "independent director" under the rules of the NASDAQ (or other principal securities market on which shares of the Company's Common Stock, as defined below, are traded). The Compensation Committee may delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board, or one or more of the Company's officers, the authority to grant or amend awards to participants other than senior executives who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, employees who are "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, or a Board member or an officer to whom authority has been delegated under the 2009 Plan to grant or amend awards.
The Board, acting by a majority of its members in office, will have authority to administer the 2009 Plan with respect to awards granted to non-employee members of the Board, the equity award committee of the Board (the "Equity Award Committee") has been delegated the authority to administer the 2009 Plan with respect to awards granted to certain non-key employees, and the Compensation Committee will have authority to administer the 2009 Plan to all other eligible individuals. All references to "Administrator" in this summary shall mean, as applicable, the full Board, the Compensation Committee or the Equity Award Committee as the entity to which the administration of the 2009 Plan has been delegated within the limits described in the 2009 Plan. Unless otherwise limited by the Board, the Administrator will have the authority to administer the 2009 Plan with respect to grants of equity awards, including the power to determine eligibility, the types and sizes of awards, the price and timing of awards and the acceleration or waiver of any vesting restriction, as well as the authority to delegate such administrative responsibilities.
Limitation on Awards and Shares Available
The 2009 Plan authorizes the issuance of one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of the Company's common stock, par value $.0001 per share (the "Common Stock"), less one (1) share for every one (1) share that was subject to an option or stock appreciation right granted under any Prior Plan (after December 31, 2008 and before May 6, 2009) and less 1.9 shares for every one (1) share that was subject to an award other than an option or stock appreciation right granted under any Prior Plan (after December 31, 2008 and before May 6, 2009). If any shares subject to an award granted after December 31, 2008 under any Prior Plan are forfeited or expire or are settled for cash, then any shares subject to such award may, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration or cash settlement, be used again for new grants under the 2009 Plan and the shares subject to such awards will be added back to the pool of available shares under the 2009 Plan as (i) one (1) share if such shares were subject to options or stock appreciation rights, granted under any Prior Plan, and (ii) as 1.9 shares if such shares were subject to awards other than options or stock appreciation rights granted under any Prior Plan.
Shares that are subject to awards of options or stock appreciation rights granted under the 2009 Plan will be counted against the pool of available shares under the 2009 Plan as one (1) share for every one (1) share granted. Shares that are subject to awards granted under the 2009 Plan other than options or stock appreciation rights will be counted against the pool of available shares under the 2009 Plan as 1.9 shares for every one (1) share granted. Subject to certain permitted adjustments, the number of shares authorized for grant as incentive stock options shall be no more than the total number of shares authorized for grant under the 2009 Plan.
 
If any shares subject to an award under the 2009 Plan are forfeited or expire or an award under the 2009 Plan is settled for cash, then any shares subject to such award may, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration or cash settlement, be used again for new grants under the 2009 Plan and the shares subject to such awards will be added back to the pool of available shares under the 2009 Plan as (i) one (1) share if such shares were subject to an option or stock appreciation right granted under the 2009 Plan, and (ii) as 1.9 shares if such shares were subject to awards other than options or stock appreciation rights granted under the 2009 Plan.
The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock that may be subject to one or more awards granted to any one participant pursuant to the 2009 Plan during any calendar year is four million (4,000,000) and the maximum amount that may be paid in cash to any one participant during any calendar year with respect to any performance-based award is fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Eligibility and Awards
Persons eligible to participate in the 2009 Plan are non-employee members of the Company's Board, and the employees and consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, as determined by the Administrator. The 2009 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance-based awards, dividend equivalents, stock payments, and deferred stock awards. The 2009 Plan is designed to permit awards made under the 2009 Plan, including equity awards and incentive cash bonuses, to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Each award will be evidenced by a separate agreement with the person receiving the award and will indicate the type, terms and conditions of the award. The Administrator has adopted form award agreements and programs for use under the 2009 Plan, certain of which are attached hereto.
Approval of the 2009 Plan by the Company's stockholders also constituted approval for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code of the performance units for the 2009-2011 performance period commencing January 1, 2009 and ending December 31, 2011 that were granted under the Amgen Inc. 2009 Performance Award Program that implements the 2009 Plan, as more fully described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2009.
Amendment and Termination
The Board may terminate, amend or modify the 2009 Plan at any time; however, except to the extent permitted by the 2009 Plan in connection with certain changes in capital structure, stockholder approval must be obtained for any amendment to (i) increase the number of shares available under the 2009 Plan, (ii) reduce the per share exercise price of the shares subject to any option or stock appreciation right below the per share exercise price as of the date the option or stock appreciation right was granted, and (iii) cancel any option or stock appreciation right in exchange for cash or another award when the option or stock appreciation right price per share exceeds the fair market value of the underlying shares, except with respect to any Substitute Award (as defined in the 2009 Plan).
Miscellaneous
The 2009 Plan also contains provisions with respect to payment of purchase prices, vesting and expiration of awards, treatment of awards upon a change of control of the Company, adjustments for stock splits, recapitalizations and mergers, transferability of awards and tax withholding requirements. Various other terms, conditions and limitations apply, as further described in the 2009 Plan.
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 8, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
[
The information set forth in this Award Notice will be contained on the related pages on Merrill Lynch Benefits Website (or the website of any successor company to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB). This Award Notice shall be replaced by the equivalent pages on such website. References to Award Notice in this Agreement shall then refer to the equivalent pages on such website
]
This notice of Award (the "") sets forth certain details relating to the grant by the Company to you of the Award identified below, pursuant to the Plan. The terms of this Award Notice are incorporated into the Agreement that accompanies this Award Notice and made of part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Notice that are not otherwise defined in this Award Notice have the meanings given to such terms in the Agreement.
Award Notice
 
THE SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS ARE FOUND IN THE PAGES RELATING TO THE GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS FOUND ON MERRILL LYNCH BENEFITS WEBSITE (OR THE WEBSITE OF ANY SUCCESSOR COMPANY TO MERRILL LYNCH BANK & TRUST CO., FSB) (THE "") WHICH ACCOMPANIES THIS DOCUMENT. THE TERMS OF THE AWARD NOTICE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT.
AWARD NOTICE
On the Grant Date specified in the Award Notice, Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named in the Award Notice, under the plan specified in the Award Notice (the ""), the Number of Units with respect to the number of shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company (the "") specified in the Award Notice, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in the attached and the Award Notice (together, the ""). The Units shall constitute Restricted Stock Units under Section 9.5 of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Company
Plan
Shares
Appendix A
Agreement
I. .
Vesting Schedule and Termination of Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement:
(i) "" shall mean the last date that you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Consultant or Director of the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive Units and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (, active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of your grant;
termination of your active employment
e.g.
(ii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (i) the U.S. Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case. Units that remain unvested as of the date of termination of your employment shall expire and terminate on the date of termination of your employment; and
Permanent and Total Disability
(iii) "" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(A) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or
 
any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then-outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(B) individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
Incumbent Board
(C) the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then-outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(D) any other event which the Incumbent Board, in its sole discretion, determines shall constitute a Change of Control.
Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Unit that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (A), (B), (C) or (D) must also constitute a "change in control event," as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Unit.
II. . Subject to satisfaction of tax or similar obligations as provided for in Section III, any vested Units shall be paid by the Company in Shares (on a one-to-one basis) on, or as soon as practicable after, the applicable Vesting Date (which, for purposes of this Section II, includes the date of any accelerated vesting under Sections I(b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) above); , , that in no event shall the payment be made after the close of your taxable year which includes the applicable Vesting Date or, if later, after the 15
Form and Timing of Payment
provided
however
th
day of the third calendar month following the applicable Vesting Date. Shares issued in respect of a Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or for future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
 
III. . Regardless of any action the Company or your actual employer (the "") takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you (""), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax Obligations is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company and/or your Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Units, including the grant of the Units, the vesting of Units, the conversion of the Units into Shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends, and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Obligations or achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if you become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction.
Tax Withholding; Issuance of Certificates
Employer
Tax Obligations
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to your Employer (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or your Employer or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following:
(a) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer; or
(b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon vesting or payment of the Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); or
(c) withholding in Shares to be issued upon vesting or payment of the Units, provided that the Company and your Employer shall only withhold an amount of Shares with a fair market value equal to the Tax Obligations.
To avoid adverse accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations not to exceed the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates. If the Tax Obligations are satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Obligations due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan (any Shares withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder).
 
Finally, you shall pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section III. Notwithstanding Section II above, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations.
IV. . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the Shares that are scheduled to be issued to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary's debts, contracts, liabilities or torts; , , nothing in this Section IV shall prevent transfer (i) by will or (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Transferability
provided
however
V. . Any notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be given in writing or electronically and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company's records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company Stock Administrator. Such notices may be given using any automated system for the documentation, granting or exercise of Awards, such as a system using an internet website or interactive voice response, as approved by the Company.
Notices
VI. . This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Plan, which provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of Section 9.5 of the Plan relating to Restricted Stock Units, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
Plan
VII. . The terms of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law
VIII. The time and form of payment of the Units is intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and U.S. Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Grant Date. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, in the event that following the Grant Date, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) determines that it may be necessary or appropriate to do so, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or this Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including
Code Section 409A.
 
amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Plan and/or the Units from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to this Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A; , , that this paragraph shall not create an obligation on the part of the Committee to adopt any such amendment, policy or procedure or take any such other action.
provided
however
IX. . By electing to accept this Agreement, you acknowledge receipt of this Agreement and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this Agreement constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Agreement, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Agreement. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.
Acknowledgement
X. . In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that:
Acknowledgment of Nature of Plan and Units
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan;
(b) the grant of the Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Units, or benefits in lieu of Units even if Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future Awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(d) your participation in the Plan is voluntary;
(e) for labor law purposes outside the United States, Units are an extraordinary item that do not constitute wages of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or to your Employer, and the grant of Units is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any;
(f) for labor law purposes outside the United States, the grant of Units and the Shares subject to the Units are not part of normal or expected wages or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, holiday pay, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
 
(g) the grant of Units and the Shares subject to the Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(h) neither the grant of Units nor any provision of this Agreement, the Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the Plan confer upon you any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment and shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate;
(i) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(j) in consideration of the grant of Units hereunder, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of Units, and no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Units resulting from termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and your Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim; and
(k) except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, the Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.
XI. . The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
No Advice Regarding Award
XII. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if you are employed outside the United States by the Company or an Affiliate, are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, or relocate to one of the countries included in the attached (which constitutes a part of this Agreement), the Units granted hereunder shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in and to the following additional terms and conditions:
Compliance with Laws
Appendix A
Appendix A
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation, or the rules of any Securities Exchange. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Shares issuable upon vesting of the Unit shall not be issued unless such Shares are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such Shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such vesting and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
XIII.
. You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company, and Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy and Notice of Consent
You understand that the Company and your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (""). You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB, or any successor thereto, or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area and that the recipient's country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize your Employer, the Company, Affiliates of the Company, Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB, or any successor thereto, and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the Shares received upon vesting of the Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand that
Data
 
refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
XIV. . If one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Agreement and the Plan.
Severability
XV. . If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
XVI. . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
Imposition of Other Requirements
XVII. . The Units subject to this Award and all compensation payable with respect to them shall be subject to recovery by the Company pursuant to any and all of the Company's policies with respect to the recovery of compensation, as they shall be in effect and may be amended from time to time, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
Compensation Subject to Recovery
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern any Units granted under the Plan Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached.
.
if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, or are deemed to be a resident of one of the countries listed below. Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern any Units granted hereunder may apply to you if you relocate to one of the countries listed below
NOTIFICATIONS
This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of February 1, 2009. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be outdated when you vest in the Units and acquire Shares under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions.
AUSTRALIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Units do not provide any right for you to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only.
Units Payable Only in Shares.
 
AUSTRIA
NOTIFICATIONS
 You may be entitled to revoke acceptance of any Units granted under the Plan on the basis of the Austrian Consumer Protection Act (the "Act") under the conditions listed below, if the Act is considered to be applicable to the Agreement and the Plan:
Consumer Protection Notification.
 
 
 When you sell Shares acquired under the Plan, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria. If the transaction volume of all accounts abroad exceeds 3,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the 15th day of the following month, on the prescribed form ().
Exchange Control Notification.
Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/oder SI-Verpflichtungen
BELGIUM
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Units granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any bank accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on your annual tax return.
Tax Reporting Notification.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Section I(i) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
Termination of Employment.
(i) "" shall mean the last date that you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a Consultant or Director of the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of involuntary termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive any Units and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Company or your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by the Company or your Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to
termination of your active employment
 
statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). Your right, if any, to acquire Shares pursuant to the Units after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed for purposes of your Units.
The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec:
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices, and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
Language Consent. 
""
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la rdaction en anglais de cette convention (
Agreement
), ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procdures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  ou suite  la prsente convention.
This provision supplements Section XIII of the Agreement:
Data Privacy Notice and Consent. 
You hereby authorize the Company and the Company's representative to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and your Employer to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also authorize the Company and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file.
CZECH REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
 Proceeds from the sale of Shares may be held in a cash account abroad and you are no longer required to report the opening and maintenance of a foreign account to the Czech National Bank (the "CNB"), unless the CNB notifies you specifically that such reporting is required. Upon request of the CNB, you may need to file a notification within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter in which you acquire Shares.
Exchange Control Notification.
DENMARK
NOTIFICATIONS
If you establish an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form which should be used in this respect can be obtained from a local bank. (These obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.)
Exchange Control Information. 
If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V ()
Securities/Tax Reporting Information. 
Erklaering V
 
with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form V must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares in the account without further request each year. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.
In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank) for the purpose of holding cash outside Denmark, you are also required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about this account. To do so, you must file a Form K () with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.
Erklaering K
GERMANY
There are no country-specific provisions.
GREECE
There are no country-specific provisions.
HONG KONG
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SECURITIES WARNING:
 The Units and any Shares issued in respect of the Units do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to members of the Board, Employees and Consultants. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a "prospectus" for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Units and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each member of the Board, Employee and/or Consultant and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice.
 Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Units do not provide any right for you to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in Shares only.
Units Payable Only in Shares.
 In the event that Shares are issued in respect of the Units within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you agree that you will not dispose of the Shares prior to the six (6)-month anniversary of the Grant Date.
Sale of Shares.
 
HUNGARY
There are no country-specific provisions.
INDIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section III of the Agreement:
Fringe Benefit Tax Obligation.
By accepting the Units, you consent and agree to assume liability for any fringe benefit tax ("FBT") that may be payable by the Company and/or your Employer in connection with the Units. You understand that the grant of any Units is contingent upon your agreement to assume liability for FBT payable on the Units. Further, by accepting the Units, you agree that the Company and/or your Employer may collect the FBT from you by any of the means set forth, as applicable, in Section III of the Agreement, or by any other reasonable method established by the Company. You also agree to execute promptly any other consents or elections required to accomplish the foregoing, upon request of the Company.
NOTIFICATIONS
 You must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and any dividends received in relation to the Shares to India within 90 days after receipt. You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or your Employer requests proof of repatriation.
Exchange Control Notification.
IRELAND
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section X of the Agreement:
Nature of Agreement. 
In accepting any Units granted hereunder, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim.
NOTIFICATIONS
 If you are a director, shadow director or secretary of an Irish Affiliate, you must notify the Irish Affiliate in writing within five (5) business days of receiving or disposing of an interest in the Company (the Units or Shares) in the Company, or within five (5) business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement, or within five (5) business days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This notification requirement also applies with respect to the interests of a spouse or minor children (whose interests, if any, will be attributed to the director, shadow director or secretary).
Director Notification Requirements.
e.g.,
 
ITALY
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The following provision replaces Section XIII of the Agreement:
Data Privacy Consent.
You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described herein by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan.
You understand that your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance (to the extent permitted under Italian law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all Awards granted, or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan ("Data").
You also understand that providing the Company with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. The Controller of personal data processing is Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its Representative in Italy for privacy purposes is Amgen Dompe S.p.A., with registered offices at Via Tazzoli, 6  20154 Milan, Italy.
You understand that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company. You further understand that the Company and/or any Affiliate will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares acquired at vesting of the Units. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere. Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan.
 
You understand that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions, as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003.
The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto, as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing.
Furthermore, you are aware that Data will not be used for direct-marketing purposes. In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your local human resources representative.
By accepting any Units granted hereunder, you acknowledge that (1) you have received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix; (2) you have reviewed the applicable documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix.
Acknowledgement of Nature of Agreement.
For any Units granted, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and explicitly approve, without limitation, the following sections of the Agreement: Section I; Section II, Section III, Section IX, Section X, Section XIII (as replaced by the above consent), Section XV and Section XVI.
LITHUANIA
There are no country-specific provisions.
MEXICO
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
In accepting the Award granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions of Section X of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established:
Acknowledgement of the Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 In accepting any Award granted hereunder, you expressly recognize that Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of Shares do not constitute an employment relationship between you and Amgen Inc. since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ("Amgen-Mexico"). Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, Amgen-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Amgen-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.
Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement.
You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of Amgen Inc.; therefore, Amgen Inc. reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you.
Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against Amgen Inc. for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to Amgen Inc., its Affiliates, shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.
Spanish Translation
 Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento bajo el presente documento, usted reconoce que ha recibido una copia del Plan, que ha revisado el mismo en su totalidad, as como tambin el Acuerdo de Opcin, el Acuerdo, incluyendo este Apndice, adems que comprende y est de acuerdo con todas las disposiciones tanto del Plan y del Otorgamiento, incluyendo este Apndice. Asimismo, usted reconoce que ha ledo y manifiesta especficamente y expresamente la conformidad con los trminos y condiciones establecidos en la Seccin X del Acuerdo, en los que se establece y describe claramente que:
Reconocimiento del Otorgamiento.
 
 
 
 
Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento de Acciones bajo el presente, usted reconoce expresamente que Amgen Inc., con oficinas registradas localizadas en One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., es la nica responsable de la administracin del Plan y que su participacin en el mismo y la adquisicin de Acciones Comunes no constituyen de ninguna manera una relacin laboral entre usted y Amgen Inc., debido a que su participacin en el Plan es nicamente una relacin comercial y que su nico empleador es Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ("Amgen-Mxico"). Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y los beneficios a su favor que pudieran derivar de la participacin en el mismo, no establecen ningn derecho entre usted y su empleador, Amgen  Mxico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o los beneficios otorgados por Amgen  Mxico, y cualquier modificacin del Plan o la terminacin del mismo no constituir un cambio o desmejora de los trminos y condiciones de su trabajo.
Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral y Declaracin de Poltica.
Asimismo, usted entiende que su participacin en el Plan es resultado de la decisin unilateral y discrecional de Amgen Inc., por lo tanto, Amgen Inc. se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y/o descontinuar su participacin en el Plan en cualquier momento y sin ninguna responsabilidad para usted.
Finalmente, usted manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna accin o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de Amgen Inc., por cualquier compensacin o daos y perjuicios, en relacin con cualquier disposicin del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia usted exime amplia y completamente a Amgen Inc. de toda responsabilidad, como as tambin a sus Afiliadas, accionistas, directores, agentes o representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.
NETHERLANDS
NOTIFICATIONS
You should be aware of Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions if you have insider information regarding the Company.
Securities Law Notification. 
 
By accepting any Units granted hereunder and participating in the Plan, you acknowledge having read and understood this Securities Law Notification and further acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the following Dutch insider trading rules:
Under Article 46 of the Act on the Supervision of the Securities Trade 1995, anyone who has "inside information" related to the Company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or from the Netherlands. "Inside information" is knowledge of a detail concerning the issuer to which the securities relate that is not public and which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the stock price, regardless of the development of the price.
Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees of the Company working at an Affiliate in the Netherlands (including persons eligible to participate in the Plan) may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when in possession of such inside information.
NORWAY
There are no country-specific provisions.
POLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland on transactions and balances of the securities and cash deposited in such accounts if the value of such transactions or balances exceeds 10,000. If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis by the 20th day following the end of each quarter. The reports are filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.
Exchange Control Notification. 
PORTUGAL
NOTIFICATIONS
If you do not hold the Shares acquired under the Plan with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the Shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for you.
Exchange Control Notification. 
PUERTO RICO
There are no country-specific provisions.
RUSSIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 Any Units granted hereunder, the Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan or any Units granted hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of Shares under the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, Shares may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.
Securities Law Requirements.
 
In no event will Shares acquired under the Plan be delivered to you in Russia; all Shares will be maintained on your behalf in the United States.
You are not permitted to sell any Shares acquired under the Plan directly to a Russian legal entity or resident.
NOTIFICATIONS
You must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares and any dividends received in relation to such Shares to Russia within a reasonably short period after receipt. The sale proceeds and any dividends received in relation to Shares must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to a foreign bank subject to the following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; (iii) the Russian tax authorities must be given notice about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing; and (iv) the Russian tax authorities must be given notice of the account balances of such foreign accounts as of the beginning of each calendar year.
Exchange Control Notification. 
SLOVAKIA
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to notify the Slovak National Bank with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days of the end of the calendar year. The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website (). You should consult your personal legal advisor to determine which forms you must submit and when such forms will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
www.nbs.sk
SLOVENIA
There are no country-specific provisions.
SPAIN
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 The following provision supplements Section X of the Agreement:
Labor Law Acknowledgement.
By accepting the Units granted hereunder, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan.
 
You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant any Units under the Plan to individuals who may be members of the Board, Employees or Consultants of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision, which is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any Units granted will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement, including this Appendix. Consequently, you understand that the Units granted hereunder are given on the assumption and condition that they shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant of Units since the future value of the Units and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that any Units granted hereunder would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any grant of Units or right to Units shall be null and void.
NOTIFICATIONS
When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares (, dividends or sale proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be required.
Exchange Control Notification.
i.e.
If you acquire Shares under the Plan and wish to import the ownership title of such Shares (, share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the ("DGPCIE").
i.e.
Direccion General de Poltica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras
SWEDEN
There are no country-specific provisions.
SWITZERLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
 The Units offered hereunder are considered a private offering in Switzerland and are, therefore, not subject to registration in Switzerland.
Securities Law Notification.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
There are no country-specific provisions.
 
UNITED KINGDOM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section III of the Agreement:
Tax Withholding.
You agree that if you do not pay or your Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of Tax Obligations that you owe at issuance of Shares in respect of the Units, or the release or assignment of the Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Units (the "Taxable Event") within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount that should have been withheld and/or paid shall constitute a loan owed by you to your Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs ("HMRC") and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or your Employer may recover it at any time thereafter (subject to Section III of the Agreement) by withholding the funds from salary, bonus or any other funds due to you by your Employer, by withholding in Shares issued in respect of the Units or from the cash proceeds from the sale of Shares or by demanding cash or a check from you. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares to you unless and until the loan is repaid in full.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an officer or executive director and Tax Obligations are not collected from you within 90 days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected Tax Obligations may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable. You acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer may recover any such additional income tax and national insurance contributions at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section III of the Agreement.
As a condition of the Units granted hereunder, you agree to accept any liability for secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions (the "Employer NICs"), which may be payable by the Company or your Employer with respect to the Units and/or payment of the Units and issuance of Shares pursuant to the Units, the assignment or release of the Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Units.
Joint Election.
Without limitation to the foregoing, you agree to make an election (the "Election"), in the form specified and/or approved for such election by HMRC, that the liability for your Employer NICs payments on any such gains shall be transferred to you to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to execute such other elections as may be required between you and any successor to the Company and/or your Employer. You hereby authorize the Company and your Employer to withhold such Employer NICs by any of the means set forth in Section III of the Agreement.
 
Failure by you to enter into an Election, withdrawal of approval of the Election by HMRC or a joint revocation of the Election by you and the Company or your Employer, as applicable, shall be grounds for the forfeiture and cancellation of the Units, without any liability to the Company or your Employer.
 

Exhibit 10.3
[
The information set forth in this Award Notice will be contained on the related pages on Merrill Lynch Benefits Website (or the website of any successor company to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB). This Award Notice shall be replaced by the equivalent pages on such website. References to Award Notice in this Agreement shall then refer to the equivalent pages on such website
]
This notice of Award (the "") sets forth certain details relating to the grant by the Company to you of the Award identified below, pursuant to the Plan. The terms of this Award Notice are incorporated into the Agreement that accompanies this Award Notice and made of part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Notice that are not otherwise defined in this Award Notice have the meanings given to such terms in the Agreement.
Award Notice
 
THE SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR STOCK OPTION ARE FOUND IN THE PAGES RELATING TO THE GRANT OF STOCK OPTIONS FOUND ON MERRILL LYNCH BENEFITS WEBSITE (OR THE WEBSITE OF ANY SUCCESSOR COMPANY TO MERRILL LYNCH BANK & TRUST CO., FSB) (THE "") WHICH ACCOMPANIES THIS DOCUMENT. THE TERMS OF THE AWARD NOTICE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS GRANT OF STOCK OPTIONS.
AWARD NOTICE
On the Grant Date, specified in the Award Notice, Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named in the Award Notice, under the plan specified in the Award Notice (the ""), an option (the "") to purchase the number of shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company (the "") specified in the Award Notice, pursuant to the terms set forth in this Stock Option Agreement, any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in the attached and the Award Notice (together, the ""). This Option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (together with the regulations and other official guidance promulgated thereunder, the ""). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
Company
Plan
Option
Shares
Appendix A
Agreement
Code
The provisions of your Option are as follows:
I. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, on each Vesting Date the Option shall vest with respect to the number of Shares indicated on the Vesting Schedule, provided that you have remained continuously and actively employed with the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) through each applicable Vesting Date, unless (i) your employment has terminated due to your Voluntary Termination (as defined in Section IV(A)(5)) or (ii) a Change of Control (as defined in Section IV(A)(6)) occurs, or as otherwise determined by the Company in the exercise of its discretion as provided in Section IV(A)(7). This Option may only be exercised for whole shares of the Common Stock, and the Company shall be under no obligation to issue any fractional Shares to you. Subject to the limitations contained herein, this Option shall be exercisable with respect to each installment on or after the applicable Vesting Date. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Vesting Schedule may be accelerated (by notice in writing) by the Company in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this Option. In addition, if not prohibited by local law, vesting may be suspended by the Company in its sole discretion during a leave of absence as provided from time to time according to Company policies and practices.
II. (a) The per share exercise price of this Option is the Grant Price as defined in the Award Notice, being not less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this Option.
 
(2) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full upon exercise of all or any part of each installment which has become exercisable by you by means of (i) cash or a check, (ii) any cashless exercise procedure through the use of a brokerage arrangement approved by the Company, or (iii) any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board or the Committee in their discretion.
(3) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, if, at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the , payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned Shares of a value equal to the exercise price of the Shares for which this Option is being exercised. The already-owned Shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid adverse accounting treatment and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to restrict the methods of payment of the exercise price if necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law or regulation, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion.
III. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Option may not be exercised unless the Shares issuable upon exercise of this Option are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such Shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
IV. (A) The term of this Option commences on the Grant Date and, unless sooner terminated as set forth below or in the Plan, terminates on the [_______ (__th)] anniversary of the date of this Option (the ""). This Option shall terminate prior to the Expiration Date as follows: three (3) months after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) for any reason or for no reason, including if your employment is terminated by the Company or an Affiliate without cause, or in the event of any other termination of your employment caused directly or indirectly by the Company or an Affiliate, unless:
Expiration Date
(1) such termination of your employment is due to your Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below), in which case the Option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or five (5) years after termination of your employment and the vesting of the Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall be fully exercisable, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, as of the day immediately preceding such termination of your employment with respect to the Option, except that if the Option was granted in the calendar year in which such termination occurs, the Option shall be accelerated to vest with respect to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares subject to the Option multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12);
 
(2) such termination of your employment is due to your death, in which case the Option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or five (5) years after your death and the vesting of the Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall be fully exercisable as of the day immediately preceding your death with respect to the Option, except that if the Option was granted in the calendar year in which your death occurs the Option shall be accelerated to vest with respect to a number of shares equal to the number of shares subject to the Option multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12);
(3) during any part of such three (3) month period, this Option is not exercisable solely because of the condition set forth in Section III above, in which event this Option shall not terminate until the earlier of the Expiration Date or until it shall have been exercisable for an aggregate period of three (3) months after the termination of your employment;
(4) exercise of this Option within three (3) months after termination of your employment with the Company or with an Affiliate would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, in which case this Option will terminate on the earlier of: (a) the tenth (10th) day after the last date upon which exercise would result in such liability; (b) six (6) months and ten (10) days after the termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate; or (iii) the Expiration Date;
(5) such termination of your employment is due to your voluntary termination (and such voluntary termination is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability (as defined below)) after you are at least sixty five (65) years of age, or after you are at least fifty-five (55) years of age and have been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate for at least ten (10) consecutive years (""), in which case this Option shall terminate on the earlier of the Expiration Date or five (5) years after termination of your employment and the unvested portions of this Option will become exercisable pursuant to the Vesting Schedule without regard to your Voluntary Termination of your employment prior to the Vesting Date, subject to your execution of a general release and waiver in a form provided by the Company, with respect to the Option; if the Option was granted in the calendar year in which your Voluntary Termination occurs, the Option will become exercisable pursuant to the Vesting Schedule only with respect to a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares subject to the Option multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete months you remained continuously and actively employed during such calendar year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); notwithstanding the definition of Voluntary Termination set forth above, if the Company receives an opinion of counsel that there has been a legal judgment and/or legal development in your jurisdiction that would likely result in the favorable treatment upon Voluntary Termination described above being deemed unlawful and/or discriminatory, then the Committee will not apply the favorable treatment described above;
Voluntary Termination
 
(6) during the term of your employment, a Change of Control (as defined below) occurs. In the event of the occurrence of a Change of Control during the term of your employment, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Option shall, to the extent not then vested, vest and the vesting of the Option shall be accelerated and the Option shall be fully exercisable immediately prior to the Change of Control. Upon and following the acceleration of the vesting and exercise periods, at your election, the Option may be: (x) exercised or, if the surviving or acquiring corporation agrees to assume the Option or substitute a similar option, (y) assumed; or (z) replaced with a substitute option. If this Option is not exercised, substituted or assumed prior to or upon the Change of Control, it shall be terminated. The Board or the Committee, in its sole discretion, may cause any such assumption or substitution to be conducted in a manner so as not to constitute an "extension," "renewal" or "modification" (each within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) of the Option that would cause the Option to be considered "nonqualified deferred compensation" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code); or
(7) the Company determines, in its sole discretion at any time during the term of this Option, in writing, to otherwise extend the period of time during which this Option will vest and may be exercised after termination of your employment.
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the Vesting Schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this Option or as a result of your Permanent and Total Disability or death as provided in Sections IV(A)(1) or IV(A)(2) above, respectively, as a result of your Voluntary Termination as provided in Section IV(A)(5) above, as a result of a Change of Control as provided in Section IV(A)(6) above or as otherwise determined by the Company in the exercise of its discretion as provided in Section IV(A)(7) above, this Option may be exercised following termination of your employment only as to that number of Shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of termination of your employment under the provisions of Section I of this Agreement.
(B) For purposes of this Option:
(1) "" shall mean the last date you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive options and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (, active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law). Your right, if any, to exercise the Option after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed for purposes of your option grant;
termination of your employment
e.g.
(2) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of your employment by (a) the U.S. Social Security Administration,
Permanent and Total Disability
 
(b) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate, (c) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate, or (d) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case; and
(3) "" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(a) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(b) individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
(c) the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(d) any other event which the Incumbent Board, in its sole discretion, determines shall constitute a Change of Control.
(C) Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Award Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Award that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) must also constitute a "change in control event," as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Award.
 
V. (A) To the extent specified above, this Option may be exercised by delivering a notice of exercise in person, by mail, via electronic mail or facsimile or by other authorized method designated by the Company, together with the exercise price to the Company Stock Administrator, or to such other person as the Company Stock Administrator may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Section 7.2(b) of the Plan.
(B) Regardless of any action the Company or your actual employer (the "") takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you (""), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax Obligations is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company and/or your Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Option grant, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (b) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Obligations or achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if you become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction.
Employer
Tax Obligations
(C) Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or your Employer to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or your Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following:
(1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer; or
(2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization).
To avoid adverse accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations not to exceed the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates.
(D) Finally, you shall pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. You agree to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section V. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations.
 
VI. This Option is not transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable during your life only by you except if you have named a trust created for the benefit of you, your spouse, or members of your immediate family (a "Trust") as beneficiary of this Option, this Option may be exercised by the Trust after your death.
VII. Any notices provided for in this Option or the Plan shall be given in writing or electronically and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified above or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company Stock Administrator. Such notices may be given using any automated system for the documentation, granting or exercise of Awards, such as a system using an internet website or interactive voice response, as approved by the Company.
VIII. This Option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of this Option, including without limitation the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the Plan relating to Options, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Option and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
IX. You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Option by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company, or Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.
You understand that the Company and your Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (""). You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient's country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize your Employer, the Company, Affiliates of the Company, Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole
Data
 
purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares received upon exercise of this Option may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
X. The terms of this Option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Option is made and/or to be performed.
XI. Notwithstanding any provision of this Option to the contrary, if you are employed outside the United States by the Company or an Affiliate, are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, or relocate to one of the countries included in the attached (which constitutes a part of this Agreement), the Option granted hereunder shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for your country set forth in and the following additional terms and conditions:
Appendix A
Appendix A
 
 
 
XII. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not take any actions hereunder, that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation, or the rules of any Securities Exchange. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Shares issuable upon exercise of this Option shall not be issued unless such Shares are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such Shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
XIII. (A) In accepting this Option, you acknowledge that:
(1) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan;
(2) the grant of this Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of options, or benefits in lieu of options even if options have been awarded repeatedly in the past;
(3) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(4) your participation in the Plan is voluntary;
(5) for labor law purposes outside the United States, options are an extraordinary item that do not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or to your Employer, and the grant of this Option is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any;
(6) for labor law purposes outside the United States, the grant of options and the underlying Shares are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, holiday pay, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payment and in no event shall be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or any Affiliate;
(7) the grant of options and the underlying Shares are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(8) neither the grant of options nor any provision of this Option, the Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the Plan confer upon you any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment and shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate;
(9) in the event that you are not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Option shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate;
(10) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(11) if the underlying Shares do not increase in value, this Option will have no value; if you exercise this Option and obtain Shares, the value of those Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Grant Price per share;
 
(12) in consideration of the grant of this Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from forfeiture of options resulting from termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and your Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim;
(13) except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan, the Option and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.
(B) The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
XIV. If one or more of the provisions of this Option shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Option to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Option and the Plan.
XV. If you have received this Option or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
XVI. This Option is not intended to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, but rather is intended to be exempt from the application of Code Section 409A. To the extent that this Option is nevertheless deemed to be subject to Code Section 409A for any reason, this Option shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and U.S. Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Grant Date. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, in the event that following the Grant Date, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) determines that this Option may be or become subject to Code Section 409A, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or this Option or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Plan and/or this Option from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to this Option, or (b) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A; , , that this paragraph shall not create an obligation on the part of the Committee to adopt any such amendment, policy or procedure or take any such other action.
provided
however
 
XVII. By electing to accept this Option, you acknowledge receipt of this Option and hereby confirm your understanding that the terms set forth in this Option constitute, subject to the terms of the Plan, which terms shall control in the event of any conflict between the Plan and this Option, the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and supersede any and all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, both oral and written, between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Option. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
XVIII. The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on this Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
XIX. This Option and all compensation payable with respect to it shall be subject to recovery by the Company pursuant to any and all of the Company's policies with respect to the recovery of compensation, as they shall be in effect and may be amended from time to time, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Option to purchase Shares under the Plan Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached.
.
if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, or are deemed to be a resident of one of the countries listed below. Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern the Option granted hereunder may apply to you if you relocate to one of the countries listed below
NOTIFICATIONS
This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of February 1, 2009. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be outdated when you exercise the Option, acquire Shares under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions.
ALL NON-U.S. JURISDICTIONS
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The following provision replaces Section II(A)(3):
Method of Exercise.
To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full in cash or check upon exercise of all or any part of this Option which has become exercisable by you. Due to legal restrictions outside the U.S., you are not permitted to pay the exercise price by delivery of already-owned Shares of a value equal to the exercise price of the Shares for which this Option is being exercised. Furthermore, payment may not be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
 
AUSTRALIA
There are no country-specific terms and conditions.
AUSTRIA
NOTIFICATIONS
 You may be entitled to revoke acceptance of the Option granted under the Plan on the basis of the Austrian Consumer Protection Act (the "Act") under the conditions listed below, if the Act is considered to be applicable to the Agreement and the Plan:
Consumer Protection Notification.
 
 
 When you sell Shares acquired under the Plan, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria. If the transaction volume of all accounts abroad exceeds 3,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the 15th day of the following month, on the prescribed form ().
Exchange Control Notification.
Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/odder SI-Verpflichtungen
BELGIUM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 The Option granted hereunder must be accepted in writing within 60 days of the offer (and will be subject to taxation on the 60th day following the offer date of the Option, the offer date being defined as the date on which these documents have been sent to you). If you do not accept the Option in writing within 60 days of the offer, you will be deemed to have refused the grant. Please refer to the Option acceptance letter that you will receive along with the applicable Agreement for a more detailed description of the tax consequences of choosing to accept the Option. You should consult your personal tax advisor regarding completion of the additional forms.
Tax Considerations.
 
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Option granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any bank accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on your annual tax return.
Tax Reporting Notification.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
. Due to legal restrictions in Canada, you are prohibited from surrendering Shares that you already own or attesting to the ownership of Shares to pay the exercise price or any Tax Obligations in connection with the Option.
Form of Payment
Section IV(B) (1) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
Termination of Employment.
(1) "termination of your employment" shall mean the last date you are either an active employee of the Company or an Affiliate or actively engaged as a consultant or director to the Company or an Affiliate; in the event of involuntary termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive the Option and vest under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Company or your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by the Company or your Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). Your right, if any, to acquire Shares pursuant to the Option after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed for purposes of your Option.
The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec:
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this Agreement, as well as all documents, notices, and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
Language Consent. 
""
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la rdaction en anglais de cette convention (
Agreement
), ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procdures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  ou suite  la prsente convention.
This provision supplements Section IX of the Agreement:
Data Privacy Notice and Consent. 
You hereby authorize the Company and the Company's representative to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Company and your Employer to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also authorize the Company and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file.
 
CZECH REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
 Proceeds from the sale of Shares may be held in a cash account abroad and you are no longer required to report the opening and maintenance of a foreign account to the Czech National Bank (the "CNB"), unless the CNB notifies you specifically that such reporting is required. Upon request of the CNB, you may need to file a notification within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter in which you acquire Shares.
Exchange Control Notification.
DENMARK
NOTIFICATIONS
If you establish an account holding Shares or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form which should be used in this respect can be obtained from a local bank. (These obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.)
Exchange Control Information. 
If you hold Shares acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V () with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form V must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares in the account without further request each year. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.
Securities/Tax Reporting Information. 
Erklaering V
In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank) for the purpose of holding cash outside Denmark, you are also required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about this account. To do so, you must file a Form K () with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.
Erklaering K
If you exercise the Option by means of the cashless method of exercise, you are not required to file a Form V because you will not hold any Shares. However, if you open a deposit account with a foreign broker or bank to hold the cash proceeds, you are required to file a Form K as described above.
 
FINLAND
There are no country-specific provisions.
GERMANY
There are no country-specific provisions.
GREECE
There are no country-specific provisions.
HONG KONG
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SECURITIES WARNING:
The Option and any Shares issued in respect of the Option do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to members of the Board, Employees and Consultants. The Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a "prospectus" for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Option and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each member of the Board, Employee and/or Consultant and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix, or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice.
In the event that Shares are issued in respect of Options within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you agree that you will not dispose of such Shares prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date.
Sale of Shares.
HUNGARY
There are no country-specific provisions.
INDIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 Due to legal restrictions in India, you will not be permitted to pay the exercise price for Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless "sell-to-cover" procedure, under which method a number of Shares with a value sufficient to cover the exercise price, brokerage fees and any applicable Tax Obligations would be sold upon exercise and you would receive only the remaining Shares subject to the exercised Option. The Company reserves the right to permit this procedure for payment of the exercise price in the future, depending on the development of local law.
Option Exercise Restriction.
 
This provision supplements Section V of the Agreement:
Fringe Benefit Tax Obligation.
By accepting the Option, you consent and agree to assume liability for any fringe benefit tax ("FBT") that may be payable by the Company and/or your Employer in connection with the Option. You understand that the grant of the Option is contingent upon your agreement to assume liability for FBT payable on the Option. Further, by accepting the Option, you agree that the Company and/or your Employer may collect the FBT from you by any of the means set forth, as applicable, in Section V(C) of the Agreement, or by any other reasonable method established by the Company. You also agree to execute promptly any other consents or elections required to accomplish the foregoing, upon request of the Company.
You understand that, for the Option granted hereunder, the FBT will be calculated based on the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value (as determined under Indian law) of the underlying Shares at the time of vesting. Therefore, no FBT will be due if the Option is not "in-the-money" at vesting. On the other hand, if the Option is in-the-money at vesting and the fair market value of the Shares decreases between vesting and exercise, you will be liable for FBT on a greater amount than the benefit you will receive at exercise.
NOTIFICATIONS
 If you remit funds out of India to purchase Shares at exercise of the Option granted hereunder, you are responsible for complying with applicable exchange control regulations.
Exchange Control Notification.
You must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and any dividends received in relation to the Shares to India within 90 days after receipt. You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or your Employer requests proof of repatriation.
IRELAND
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section XII of the Agreement:
Nature of Agreement. 
In accepting the Option granted hereunder, you acknowledge your understanding and agreement that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim.
 
NOTIFICATIONS
 If you are a director, shadow director or secretary of an Irish Affiliate, you must notify the Irish Affiliate in writing within five (5) business days of receiving or disposing of an interest in the Company ( an Option or Shares) in the Company, or within five (5) business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement, or within five (5) business days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This notification requirement also applies with respect to the interests of a spouse or minor children (whose interests, if any, will be attributed to the director, shadow director or secretary).
Director Notification Requirements.
e.g.,
ITALY
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 Due to legal restrictions in Italy, you will be required to pay the exercise price for any Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder by a cashless sell-all exercise, such that all Shares will be sold immediately upon exercise and the cash proceeds of sale, less the exercise price, any Tax Obligations and broker's fees or commissions, will be remitted to you. The Company reserves the right to provide additional methods of exercise depending on local developments.
Option Cashless Exercise Restriction.
The following provision replaces Section IX of the Agreement:
Data Privacy Consent.
You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described herein by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan.
You understand that your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance (to the extent permitted under Italian law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all option granted, or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan ("Data").
You also understand that providing the Company with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. The Controller of personal data processing is Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its Representative in Italy for privacy purposes is Amgen Dompe S.p.A., with registered offices at Via Tazzoli, 6  20154 Milan, Italy.
 
You understand that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You understand that Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company. You further understand that the Company and/or any Affiliate will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any Shares acquired at vesting of the Option. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that these recipients may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere. Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan.
You understand that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions, as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003.
The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto, as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing.
Furthermore, you are aware that Data will not be used for direct-marketing purposes. In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your local human resources representative.
By accepting the Option granted hereunder, you acknowledge that (1) you have received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix; (2) you have reviewed the applicable documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix.
Acknowledgement of Nature of Agreement.
For the Option granted, you further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and explicitly approve, without limitation, the following Sections of the Option Agreement: Section I, Section IV, Section V, Section IX (as replaced by the above consent), Section X, Section XIII, Section XIV, and Section XVIII.
 
LITHUANIA
There are no country-specific provisions.
MEXICO
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
In accepting the Option granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Option Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions of Section XIII of the Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established:
Acknowledgement of the Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 In accepting the Option granted hereunder, you expressly recognize that Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of Shares do not constitute an employment relationship between you and Amgen Inc. since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ("Amgen-Mexico"). Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish any rights between you and your employer, Amgen-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Amgen-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.
Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement.
You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of Amgen Inc.; therefore, Amgen Inc. reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you.
Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against Amgen Inc. for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to Amgen Inc., its Affiliates, shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.
 
Spanish Translation
 Al aceptar cualquier Opcin bajo el presente documento, usted reconoce que ha recibido una copia del Plan, que ha revisado el mismo en su totalidad, as como tambin el Acuerdo de Opcin, incluyendo este Apndice, adems que comprende y est de acuerdo con todas las disposiciones tanto del Plan y del Opcin, incluyendo este Apndice. Asimismo, usted reconoce que ha ledo y manifiesta especficamente y expresamente la conformidad con los trminos y condiciones establecidos en la Seccin XIII del Acuerdo de Opcin, en los que se establece y describe claramente que:
Reconocimiento del Otorgamiento.
 
 
 
 
Al aceptar cualquier Opcin bajo el presente, usted reconoce expresamente que Amgen Inc., con oficinas registradas localizadas en One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., es la nica responsable de la administracin del Plan y que su participacin en el mismo y la adquisicin de Acciones Comunes no constituyen de ninguna manera una relacin laboral entre usted y Amgen Inc., debido a que su participacin en el Plan es nicamente una relacin comercial y que su nico empleador es Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ("Amgen-Mxico"). Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y los beneficios a su favor que pudieran derivar de la participacin en el mismo, no establecen ningn derecho entre usted y su empleador, Amgen  Mxico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o los beneficios otorgados por Amgen  Mxico, y cualquier modificacin del Plan o la terminacin del mismo no constituir un cambio o desmejora de los trminos y condiciones de su trabajo.
Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral y Declaracin de Poltica.
Asimismo, usted entiende que su participacin en el Plan es resultado de la decisin unilateral y discrecional de Amgen Inc., por lo tanto, Amgen Inc. se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y/o descontinuar su participacin en el Plan en cualquier momento y sin ninguna responsabilidad para usted.
Finalmente, usted manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna accin o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de Amgen Inc., por cualquier compensacin o daos y perjuicios, en relacin con cualquier disposicin del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia usted exime amplia y completamente a Amgen Inc. de toda responsabilidad, como as tambin a sus Afiliadas, accionistas, directores, agentes o representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.
 
NETHERLANDS
NOTIFICATIONS
You should be aware of Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the exercise of the Option granted hereunder and the sale of Shares acquired under the Plan. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions if you have insider information regarding the Company.
Securities Law Notification. 
By accepting the Option granted hereunder and participating in the Plan, you acknowledge having read and understood this Securities Law Notification and further acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the following Dutch insider trading rules:
Under Article 46 of the Act on the Supervision of the Securities Trade 1995, anyone who has "inside information" related to the Company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or from the Netherlands. "Inside information" is knowledge of a detail concerning the issuer to which the securities relate that is not public and which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the stock price, regardless of the development of the price.
Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees of the Company working at an Affiliate in the Netherlands (including person eligible to participate in the Plan) may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when in possession of such inside information.
NORWAY
There are no country-specific provisions.
POLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
Polish residents holding foreign securities (including Shares) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland on transactions and balances of the securities and cash deposited in such accounts if the value of such transactions or balances exceeds 10,000. If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis by the 20th day following the end of each quarter. The reports are filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.
Exchange Control Notification. 
 
PORTUGAL
NOTIFICATIONS
If you do not hold the Shares acquired under the Plan with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the Shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for you.
Exchange Control Notification. 
PUERTO RICO
There are no country-specific provisions.
RUSSIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 The Option granted hereunder, the Agreement, including this Appendix, the Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan or the Option granted hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of Shares under the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, such Shares may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.
Securities Law Requirements.
In no event will Shares acquired under the Plan be delivered to you in Russia; all Shares will be maintained on your behalf in the United States.
You are not permitted to sell any Shares acquired under the Plan directly to a Russian legal entity or resident.
NOTIFICATIONS
If you remit funds out of Russia to purchase Shares at exercise of the Option, the funds must be remitted from a foreign currency account in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. This requirement does not apply if you use a cashless exercise procedure such that all or part of the Shares subject to the Option granted hereunder are sold immediately upon exercise and the proceeds of sale remitted to the Company to cover the exercise price for the purchased Shares and any Tax Obligations because, in this case, there is no remittance of funds out of Russia.
Exchange Control Notification. 
With respect to any Shares acquired under the Plan, you must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of such Shares and any dividends received in relation to such shares to Russia within a reasonably short period after receipt. The sale proceeds and any dividends received must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to a foreign bank subject to the following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; (iii) the Russian tax
 
authorities must be given notice about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing; and (iv) the Russian tax authorities must be given notice of the account balances of such foreign accounts as of the beginning of each calendar year.
SLOVAKIA
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to notify the Slovak National Bank with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days of the end of the calendar year. The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website (). You should consult your personal legal advisor to determine which forms you must submit and when such forms will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
www.nbs.sk
SLOVENIA
There are no country-specific provisions.
SPAIN
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 The following provision supplements Section XIII of the Agreement:
Labor Law Acknowledgement.
By accepting the Option granted hereunder, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan.
You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant the Option under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision, which is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that the Option granted will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis other than as expressly set forth in the Agreement, including this Appendix. Consequently, you understand that the Option granted hereunder is given on the assumption and condition that it shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant of the Option since the future value of the Option and the underlying Shares is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that the Option granted hereunder would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then any grant of an Option or right to an Option shall be null and void.
 
NOTIFICATIONS
When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of Shares (, dividends or sale proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be required.
Exchange Control Notification.
i.e.
If you acquire Shares under the Plan and wish to import the ownership title of such Shares (, share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the ("DGPCIE").
i.e.
Direccion General de Poltica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras
SWEDEN
There are no country-specific provisions.
SWITZERLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
 The Option offered hereunder is considered a private offering in Switzerland and is, therefore, not subject to registration in Switzerland.
Securities Law Notification.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
There are no country-specific provisions.
UNITED KINGDOM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section V of the Agreement:
Tax Withholding.
You agree that if you do not pay or your Employer, or the Company does not withhold from you, the full amount of Tax Obligations that you owe upon exercise of the Option, or the release or assignment of the Option for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Option (the "Taxable Event") within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to your Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs ("HMRC") and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or your Employer may recover it at any time thereafter (subject to Section V of the Agreement) by withholding such amount from salary, bonus or any other funds due to you by your Employer, by withholding in Shares issued upon exercise of the
 
Option or from the cash proceeds from the sale of Shares or by demanding cash or a check from you. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any Shares to you unless and until the loan is repaid in full.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an officer or executive director and Tax Obligations are not collected from you within 90 days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected Tax Obligations may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable. You acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer may recover any such additional income tax and national insurance contributions at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section V of the Agreement.
As a condition of the Option granted hereunder, you agree to accept any liability for secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions (the "Employer NICs"), which may be payable by the Company or your Employer with respect to the exercise of the Option and issuance of Shares subject to the Option, the assignment or release of the Option for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Option.
Joint Election.
Without limitation to the foregoing, you agree to make an election (the "Election"), in the form specified and/or approved for such election by HMRC, that the liability for your Employer NICs payments on any such gains shall be transferred to you to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to execute such other elections as may be required between you and any successor to the Company and/or your Employer. You hereby authorize the Company and your Employer to withhold such Employer NICs by any of the means set forth in Section V of the Agreement.
Failure by you to enter into an Election, withdrawal of approval of the Election by HMRC or a joint revocation of the Election by you and the Company or your Employer, as applicable, shall be grounds for the forfeiture and cancellation of the Option, without any liability to the Company or your Employer.
 

Exhibit 10.4
The purpose of this document is to set forth the general terms and conditions applicable to the Amgen Inc. 2009 Performance Award Program (the "") established by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Amgen Inc. (the "") pursuant to, and in implementation of, Articles 5 and 9 of the Company's 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""). The Program is intended to carry out the purposes of the 2009 Plan and provide a means to reinforce objectives for sustained long-term performance and value creation by awarding selected key employees of the Company with payments in Company stock based on the level of achievement of pre-established performance goals during performance periods through the award of Performance Awards pursuant to Articles 5 and 9 of the 2009 Plan, subject to the restrictions and other provisions of the Program and the 2009 Plan.
Program
Company
2009 Plan
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the 2009 Plan.
"" shall mean the earned Performance Units payable in Common Stock under the Program for a Performance Period.
Award
"" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(i) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or
(ii) individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for
election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
(iii) the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(iv) any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole discretion determines constitutes a Change of Control.
Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Award Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Award that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) must also constitute a "change in control event," as defined in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Award.
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, together with the regulations and official guidance promulgated thereunder.
Code
"" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 4.1.
Determination Date
"" shall mean a key employee of the Company or an Affiliate who participates in this Program pursuant to the provisions of Article III hereof.
Participant
"" shall mean a period of time with respect to which performance is measured as determined by the Committee. Performance Periods may overlap.
Performance Period
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 5.2.
Performance Goals
"" shall mean a right granted to a Participant pursuant to the Program to receive Common Stock, the payment of which is contingent upon achieving the Performance Goals.
Performance Unit
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and with such permanent and total disability being certified prior to termination of a Participant's employment by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the
Permanent and Total Disability
 
comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate of the Company, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company in its sole discretion, as applicable, in any such case.
"" shall mean when a Participant is at least sixty-five (65) years of age, or when a Participant is at least fifty-five (55) years of age and has been an employee of the Company and/or an Affiliate of the Company for at least ten (10) consecutive years.
Retirement-Eligible
"" shall mean any Participant designated by the Committee as a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code whose compensation for the fiscal year in which the Participant is so designated or a future fiscal year may be subject to the limit on deductible compensation imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Participant
"" shall mean voluntary termination of employment that is not the result of Permanent and Total Disability.
Voluntary Retirement
3.1 . Participants for any Performance Period shall be those active key employees of the Company or an Affiliate who are designated in writing as eligible for participation by the Committee within the first ninety (90) days of such Performance Period.
Participants
3.2 . No Participant or other employee of the Company or an Affiliate shall, at any time, have a right to participate in this Program for any Performance Period, notwithstanding having previously participated in this Program.
No Right to Participate
4.1 . The Committee shall establish the basis for payments under this Program in relation to specified Performance Goals, as more fully described in Article V hereof. With respect to the 162(m) Participants, the Committee shall establish the basis for payments under this Program in relation to specified Performance Goals within the first ninety (90) days of each Performance Period, but in no event after 25 percent of the Performance Period has lapsed. Following the end of each Performance Period, once all of the information necessary for the Committee to determine the Company's performance is made available to the Committee, the Committee shall determine the amount of the Award payable to each Participant; , that any such determination shall be made no later than six months following the end of such Performance Period (the date of such determination shall hereinafter be called the ""). The Committee shall have the power and authority granted it under Article 12 of the 2009 Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to construe and interpret this Program, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules, regulations and procedures relating to its
Generally
provided, however
Determination Date
 
administration and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for administration of this Program. Decisions of the Committee in accordance with the authority granted hereby shall be conclusive and binding. Subject only to compliance with the express provisions hereof, the Committee may act in its sole and absolute discretion with respect to matters within its authority under this Program.
4.2 . Subject to the sole discretion of the Committee, any Awards paid hereunder to a Section 162(m) Participant shall satisfy and shall be interpreted in a manner that satisfies any applicable requirements as "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and any provisions, application or interpretation of the Program or the 2009 Plan that is inconsistent with this intent shall be disregarded. To the extent that any Award (i) is deemed to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) and (ii) would nevertheless be subject to the deduction limitations imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code in the year in which such Award would otherwise be paid under this Program, the payment of such Award may, in the Committee's discretion, be delayed until the earlier of (A) the first year in which such Award would not be subject to the deduction limitations imposed by Section 162(m) or (B) such time as the Participant ceases to be a "service provider" to the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code).
Provisions Applicable to Section 162(m) Participants
4.3 . Notwithstanding any provision of the Program to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company and its Affiliates operate or have employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
Provisions Applicable to Participants in Foreign Jurisdictions
(i) modify the terms and conditions of any award of Performance Units granted to employees outside the United States to comply with applicable foreign laws;
(ii) condition the effectiveness of any award of Performance Units upon approval or compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption or approvals;
(iii) provide for payment of any Award in cash or Common Stock, at the Company's election, to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws; and
(iv) take any other action, before or after an award of Performance Units is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no award of Performance Units shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation.
 
5.1 . The Committee shall determine the number of Performance Units (rounded down to the nearest whole number) to be awarded under this Program to each Participant with respect to such Performance Period. With respect to the Section 162(m) Participants, the Committee shall determine the number of Performance Units (rounded down to the nearest whole number) to be awarded under this Program to each Section 162(m) Participant with respect to such Performance Period within the first ninety (90) days of such Performance Period, but in no event after 25 percent of the Performance Period has elapsed. Performance Units granted under the Program shall constitute Performance Awards under Article 9 of the 2009 Plan.
Award of Performance Units
5.2 . The Committee shall approve the performance goals (collectively, the "") with respect to any of the business criteria permitted under the 2009 Plan, each subject to such adjustments as the Committee may specify in writing at such time, and shall establish a formula, standard or schedule which aligns the level of achievement of the Performance Goals with the earned Performance Units.
Performance Requirements
Performance Goals
With respect to the Section 162(m) Participants, the Committee shall approve the Performance Goals within the first ninety (90) days of such the Performance Period, but in no event after 25 percent of the Performance Period has elapsed, and the Performance Goals may not be changed during the Performance Period, but the thresholds, targets and multiplier measures of the Performance Goals shall be subject to such adjustments as the Committee may specify in writing within the first ninety (90) days of the Performance Period, but in no event after 25 percent of the Performance Period has elapsed.
6.1 . Except as set forth in Section 8.1 below, no Award payable pursuant to this Program shall be paid unless and until the Committee certifies, in writing, the extent to which the Performance Goals have been achieved and the corresponding number of Performance Units earned. The specified payment date applicable to such Awards shall be the year immediately following the tax year including the end of the Performance Period. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of an Award shall be deemed to be issued in consideration for future services to be rendered or past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit, by the Participant, which the Committee deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment
6.2 . Regardless of any action the Company or its Affiliate takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to participation in the Program and legally applicable to the Participant (""), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Obligations is and remains the Participant's responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company and/or its Affiliate. The Participant further acknowledges that the Company and/or its Affiliate (i) make no representations or
Tax Withholding
Tax Obligations
 
undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Performance Units, including the grant of the Performance Units, the vesting of Performance Units, the conversion of the Performance Units into shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares acquired at vesting and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Performance Units to reduce or eliminate the Participant's liability for Tax Obligations or achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if the Participant becomes subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, the Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or its Affiliate may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction.
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant shall pay, or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to its Affiliate (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or its Affiliate or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following:
(a) withholding from the Participant's wages or other cash compensation paid to the Participant by the Company and/or its Affiliate; or
(b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting or payment of the Performance Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on the Participant's behalf pursuant to this authorization); or
(c) withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon vesting or payment of the Performance Units, provided that the Company and its Affiliate shall only withhold an amount of shares of Common Stock with a fair market value equal to the Tax Obligations.
To avoid adverse accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations not to exceed the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates. If the Tax Obligations are satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, the Participant is deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the vested Performance Units, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Obligations due as a result of any aspect of the Participant's participation in the Program (any shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Program and shall remain available for issuance thereunder).
Finally, the Participant shall pay to the Company or its Affiliate any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or its Affiliate may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant's participation in the Program that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Participant agrees to take any further actions and execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section 6.2. Notwithstanding Section 6.1 above, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock if the Participant fails to comply with its obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations.
 
7.1 .
Termination of Employment During Performance Period
(a) In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated prior to the last business day of a Performance Period by reason of such Participant's Voluntary Retirement and such Participant is Retirement-Eligible on the date of such termination, the full or prorated amount of such Participant's Award, if any, applicable to such Performance Period shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above, , that if (i) amounts payable under this Program are deemed to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation," and (ii) a Participant is deemed to be a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Code Section 409A), then amounts payable under this Program shall not be paid until the later of (A) the payment date described in Article VI above, or (B) the date that is six months after the date of termination (or the date on which such Participant dies, if earlier), to the extent required by Code Section 409A. For purposes of the foregoing, the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) shall be determined based on the Company's performance as compared to the Performance Goals for such Performance Period and (i) if the Award was granted with respect to a Performance Period commencing in a calendar year prior to the calendar year in which such Voluntary Retirement occurs, the full amount of the Award is payable, and (ii) if the Award was granted with respect to the Performance Period commencing in the calendar year in which such Voluntary Retirement occurs, the Award otherwise payable is multiplied by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of employment during the Performance Period, and the denominator of which is twelve (12); provided however, that prior to termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate, such Participant signs a general release in a form provided by the Company.
provided
(b) In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated prior to the last business day of a Performance Period by reason of such Participant's death or Permanent and Total Disability, the full or prorated amount of such Participant's Award, if any, applicable to such Performance Period shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above, , that if (i) a Participant's employment terminates due to Permanent and Total Disability, (ii) amounts payable under this Program are deemed to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation," and (iii) the Participant is deemed to be a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Code Section 409A), then amounts payable under this Program shall not be paid until the later of (A) the payment date described in Article VI above, or (B) the date that is six months after the date of termination (or the date on which such Participant dies, if earlier), to the extent required by Code Section 409A. For purposes of the foregoing, the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) shall be determined based on the Company's performance as compared to the Performance Goals for such Performance Period and (i) if the Award was granted with respect to
provided
 
a Performance Period commencing in a calendar year prior to the calendar year in which such termination occurs, the full amount of the Award is payable, and (ii) if the Award was granted with respect to the Performance Period commencing in the calendar year in which such termination occurs, the Award otherwise payable is multiplied by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of employment during the Performance Period, and the denominator of which is twelve (12). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall not be entitled to such full or prorated amount of such Participant's Award unless prior to a Participant's termination of employment due to such Participant's Permanent and Total Disability, such Participant signs a general release in a form provided by the Company.
(c) In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated prior to the last business day of a Performance Period for any reason other than as specified in Sections 7.1(a) and (b) above, all of such Participant's rights to an Award for such Performance Period shall be forfeited, unless the Committee approves, based upon the recommendation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer which are based on valid business reasons, the payment of a prorated amount of the Participant's Award, if any, applicable to such Performance Period shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above. For purposes of the foregoing, the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) shall be determined based on the Company's performance as compared to the Performance Goals for such Performance Period and the Award otherwise payable is multiplied by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of employment during the Performance Period, and the denominator of which is the number of months in the Performance Period; provided however, that prior to termination of a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate, such Participant signs a general release in a form provided by the Company.
7.2 . In the event that a Participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate is terminated on or after the last business day of the applicable Performance Period but prior to the Determination Date for any reason, the amount of any Award applicable to such Performance Period shall be paid to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above.
Termination of Employment After End of Performance Period
8.1 .
Change of Control During Performance Period
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, in the event of a Change of Control that occurs during the first fiscal year of a Performance Period that began prior to January 1, 2008, such Performance Period shall be shortened and shall terminate as of the last business day of the last completed fiscal quarter preceding the date of such Change of Control and each Participant employed by the Company immediately prior to such Change of Control shall be entitled to a payment equal to the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) he or she would have received for such shortened Performance Period using the assumption that the target levels with respect to the Company's
 
Revenue CAGR and EPS CAGR of the Performance Goals have been satisfied. Any such payment shall be made as soon as practicable following such Change of Control (provided, that the Company may elect, in its sole discretion, to make any such payments in a manner that will not subject the payments to penalties under Code Section 409A) and, in the Committee's sole discretion, may be paid in cash.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, in the event of a Change of Control that occurs during the second or third fiscal year of a Performance Period that began prior to January 1, 2008, such Performance Period shall be shortened and shall terminate as of the last business day of the last completed fiscal quarter preceding the date of such Change of Control and each Participant employed by the Company immediately prior to such Change of Control shall be entitled to a payment equal to the greater of (i) the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) he or she would have received for such shortened Performance Period using the assumption that the targets levels with respect to the Company's Revenue CAGR and EPS CAGR of the Performance Goals have been satisfied, or (ii) the amount of the Participant's Award (rounded down to the nearest whole number) he or she would have been entitled to receive for such shortened Performance Period, determined based on the Company's performance as determined by the Amgen Revenue CAGR and Amgen EPS CAGR and comparative performance as determined by the Peer Group Revenue CAGR and Peer Group EPS CAGR (for the 2006-2008 Performance Period) or the Company's performance as determined by the Amgen Revenue CAGR and Amgen EPS CAGR and Total Stockholder Return (for the 2007-2009 Performance Period) for such shortened Performance Period. Any such payment shall be made as soon as practicable following such Change of Control (provided, that the Company may elect, in its sole discretion, to make any such payments in a manner that will not subject the payments to penalties under Code Section 409A) and, in the Committee's sole discretion, may be paid in cash.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, for Performance Periods beginning on or after January 1, 2008, the Committee shall set forth the terms of any Award payable in the event of Change of Control that occurs during a Performance Period in the Performance Goals.
(d) For purposes of this Section 8.1, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Performance Goals for the relevant Performance Period: "Revenue CAGR," "EPS CAGR," "Amgen Revenue CAGR," "Amgen EPS CAGR," "Peer Group Revenue CAGR," "Peer Group EPS CAGR" and "Total Stockholder Return."
8.2 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Program, in the event of a Change of Control that occurs after the end of the applicable Performance Period but prior to the Determination Date, the amount of any Award applicable to such Performance Period shall be paid to the Participant in accordance with the provisions of Article VI above.
Change of Control After End of Performance Period
 
9.1 . The Program is subject to all the provisions of the 2009 Plan and its provisions are hereby made a part of the Program, including without limitation the provisions of Articles 5 and 9 thereof (relating to Performance-Based Compensation and Performance Awards) and Section 13.2 thereof (relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock), and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the 2009 Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and those of the 2009 Plan, the provisions of the 2009 Plan shall control. Notwithstanding any provision of the Program to the contrary, any earned Performance Units paid in cash rather than shares of Common Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the 2009 Plan.
Plan
9.2 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Committee may, at any time, terminate, modify or suspend this Program; , that, without the prior consent of the Participants affected, no such action may adversely affect any rights or obligations with respect to any Awards theretofore earned but unpaid for a completed Performance Period, whether or not the amounts of such Awards have been computed and whether or not such Awards are then payable. Notwithstanding the forgoing, at any time the Committee determines that the Performance Units may be subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and without a Participant's prior consent to amend the Program as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the Performance Units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the Performance Units, provided that no such amendment may change the Program's "performance goals," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, with respect to any person who is a "covered employee," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Amendment and Termination
provided, however
9.3 . Nothing contained in this Program or in any document related to this Program or to any Award shall confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee or in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate or constitute any contract or agreement of employment for a specific term or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or an Affiliate to reduce such person's compensation, to change the position held by such person or to terminate the employment of such person, with or without cause.
No Contract for Employment
9.4 . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Program shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of any Participant or beneficiary; , that, nothing in this Section 9.4 shall prevent transfer (i) by will, or (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
provided, however
 
9.5 . The Awards under this Program and all compensation payable with respect to them shall be subject to recovery by the Company pursuant to any and all of the Company's policies with respect to the recovery of compensation, as they shall be in effect and may be amended from time to time, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
Compensation Subject to Recovery
9.6 . No Participant, beneficiary or other person shall have any right, title or interest in any fund or in any specific asset of the Company or any Affiliate by reason of any award hereunder. There shall be no funding of any benefits which may become payable hereunder. Nothing contained in this Program (or in any document related thereto), nor the creation or adoption of this Program, nor any action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Program shall create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary or other person. To the extent that a Participant, beneficiary or other person acquires a right to receive payment with respect to an Award hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or other employing entity, as applicable. All amounts payable under this Program shall be paid from the general assets of the Company or employing entity, as applicable, and no special or separate fund or deposit shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts. Nothing in this Program shall be deemed to give any employee any right to participate in this Program except in accordance herewith.
Nature of Program
9.7 . This Program shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law thereof.
Governing Law
 

Exhibit 10.5
[The information set forth in this Award Notice will be contained on the related pages on Merrill Lynch Benefits Website (or the website of any successor company to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB). This Award Notice shall be replaced by the equivalent pages on such website. References to Award Notice in this Agreement shall then refer to the equivalent pages on such website ]
This notice of Award (the "") sets forth certain details relating to the grant by the Company to you of the Award identified below, pursuant to the Plan. The terms of this Award Notice are incorporated into the Agreement that accompanies this Award Notice and made of part of the Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Notice that are not otherwise defined in this Award Notice have the meanings given to such terms in the Agreement.
Award Notice
 
THE SPECIFIC TERMS OF YOUR GRANT OF PERFORMANCE UNITS ARE FOUND IN THE PAGES RELATING TO THE GRANT OF PERFORMANCE UNITS FOUND ON MERRILL LYNCH BENEFITS WEBSITE (OR THE WEBSITE OF ANY SUCCESSOR COMPANY TO MERRILL LYNCH BANK & TRUST CO., FSB) (THE "") WHICH ACCOMPANIES THIS DOCUMENT. THE TERMS OF THE AWARD NOTICE ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT.
AWARD NOTICE
On the Grant Date specified in the Award Notice, Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named in the Award Notice, under the plan specified in the Award Notice (the ""), the Number of Performance Units (the "") specified in the Award Notice on the terms and conditions set forth in this Performance Unit Agreement (and any applicable special terms and conditions for your country set forth in the attached (as described in greater detail in Section XIII below)) (collectively, this ""), the Plan, the Amgen Inc. 2009 Performance Award Program (the "Program") and the Resolutions (as defined below). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Program.
Company
Plan
Performance Units
Appendix A
Agreement
I. . The Performance Period shall have the meaning set forth in the Award Notice.
Performance Period
II. . The value of each Performance Unit is equal to a share of Common Stock.
Value of Performance Units
III. . An amount of the Performance Units up to the maximum amount specified in the Resolutions shall be earned, depending on the extent to which the Company achieves objectively determinable Performance Goals established by the Committee pursuant to the Resolutions. The Performance Units earned shall be calculated in accordance with the Resolutions and the Program.
Performance Goals
IV. . Subject to Section XII and except as set forth in the Program, for any Performance Units earned pursuant to Section III above, the specified payment date applicable to such Performance Units shall be the year immediately following the end of the Performance Period. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Performance Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration of past services actually rendered by you to the Company or an Affiliate or for its benefit for which you have not previously been compensated or for future services to be rendered, as the case may be, which the Company deems to have a value at least equal to the aggregate par value thereof.
Form and Timing of Payment
V. . Regardless of any action the Company or your actual employer (the "Employer") takes with respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state and local taxes), social insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and the Program and legally applicable to you (the ""), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax
Issuance of Certificates; Tax Withholding
Tax Obligations
 
Obligations is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company and/or your Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Obligations in connection with any aspect of the Performance Units, including the grant of the Performance Units, the vesting of the Performance Units, the conversion of the Performance Units into shares or the receipt of an equivalent cash payment, the subsequent sale of any shares acquired at settlement and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Performance Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax Obligations or to achieve any particular tax result. Furthermore, if you become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or your Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Obligations in more than one jurisdiction.
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or to your Employer (in their sole discretion) to satisfy all Tax Obligations. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or your Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy all applicable Tax Obligations by one or a combination of the following:
(a) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or your Employer;
(b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock issued upon settlement of the Performance Units, either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization);
(c) withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon settlement of the Performance Units provided that the Company and your Employer shall only withhold an amount of shares of Common Stock with a fair market value equal to the Tax Obligations.
To avoid adverse accounting treatment, the Company may withhold or account for Tax Obligations not to exceed the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates. If the Tax Obligations are satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of shares subject to the earned Performance Units, notwithstanding that a number of shares of Common Stock is held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax Obligations due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan (any shares of Common Stock withheld by the Company hereunder shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan and shall remain available for issuance thereunder).
Finally, you shall pay to the Company or your Employer any amount of Tax Obligations that the Company or your Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan and the Program that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. You agree to take any further actions and to execute any additional documents as may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section V. Notwithstanding Section IV above, the Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares of Common Stock or the proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax Obligations.
 
VI. . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement or in the shares of Common Stock that may become issuable to you hereunder shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary's debts, contracts, liabilities or torts; , nothing in this Section VI shall prevent transfer (i) by will or (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
provided, however
VII. . This Agreement is not an employment or service contract with the Company or an Affiliate and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company or an Affiliate, or of the Company or an Affiliate to continue your employment or service with the Company or an Affiliate.
No Contract for Employment
VIII. . In accepting the grant of Performance Units, you acknowledge that:
Nature of Grant
(a) the Plan and the Program are established voluntarily by the Company, are discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, as provided in the Plan and in the Program;
(b) the grant of the Performance Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Performance Units, or benefits in lieu of Performance Units, even if Performance Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(d) your participation in the Plan and the Program is voluntary;
(e) for labor law purposes outside the United States, Performance Units are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or to the Employer, and the grant of Performance Units is outside the scope of your employment contract, if any;
(f) for labor law purposes outside the United States, the grant of Performance Units and the shares of Common Stock subject to the Performance Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, holiday pay, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
 
(g) the grant of Performance Units and the shares of Common Stock subject to the Performance Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(h) neither the grant of Performance Units nor any provision of this Agreement, the Plan, the Program or the policies adopted pursuant to the Plan or Program confer upon you any right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment and shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company;
(i) the future value of the shares of Common Stock that may be earned upon the end of the Performance Period is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(j) in consideration of the grant of Performance Units hereunder, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Performance Units resulting from termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and your Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim;
(k) in the event of termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive Performance Units and receive shares under the Plan and the Program, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (, active employment would not include a period of "garden leave" or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively employed for purposes of your grant; and
e.g.
(l) the Performance Units and the benefits under the Plan and the Program, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.
IX. . The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan and the Program, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock. You are hereby advised to consult with your personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Plan and the Program before taking any action related thereto.
No Advice Regarding Grant
X. . Any notices provided for in this Agreement, the Plan or the Program shall be given in writing or electronically and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company's records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company Stock Administrator. Such notices may be given using any automated system for the documentation, granting or exercise of Awards, such as a system using an internet website or interactive voice response, as approved by the Company.
Notices
 
XI. . This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Resolutions, the Plan and the Program and their provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement and incorporated herein by reference, including, without limitation, the provisions of Articles 5 and 9 of the Plan (relating to Performance-Based Compensation and Performance Awards, respectively) and Section 13.2 of the Plan (relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock), and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Resolutions, the Plan and the Program, the provisions of the Plan shall control. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Program to the contrary, any earned Performance Units paid in cash rather than shares of Common Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued by the Company for any purpose under the Plan.
Resolutions, Plan and Program
XII. . The Performance Units are not intended to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (together with the regulations and official guidance promulgated thereunder, the ""). However, if at any time the Committee determines that the Performance Units may be subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and without your prior consent to amend the Program as it may determine is necessary or desirable either for the Performance Units to be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code or to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including by adding conditions with respect to the vesting and/or the payment of the Performance Units, provided that no such amendment may change the Program's "performance goals," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, with respect to any person who is a "covered employee," within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Any such amendment to the Program may in the Committee's sole discretion apply retroactively to this award of Performance Units.
No Compensation Deferral
Code
XIII. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Program to the contrary, if you are employed outside the United States by the Company or an Affiliate, are subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction, or relocate to one of the countries included in the attached (which constitutes a part of this Agreement), your award of Performance Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions for such country set forth in and to the following additional terms and conditions:
Provisions Applicable to Participants in Foreign Jurisdictions
Appendix A
Appendix A
(a) the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including , are deemed modified to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with applicable foreign laws or facilitate the administration of the Plan and the Program;
Appendix A
(b) if applicable, the effectiveness of your Award is conditioned upon its compliance with any applicable foreign laws, regulations, rules or local governmental regulatory exemption and subject to receipt of any required foreign regulatory approvals;
 
(c) to the extent necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws, the payment of any earned Performance Units shall be made in cash or Common Stock, at the Company's election; and
(d) the Committee may take any other action, before or after an award of Performance Units is made, that it deems necessary or advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local governmental regulatory exemptions or approvals.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no award of Performance Units shall be granted, that would violate the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Code, or any other securities or tax or other applicable law or regulation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the shares issuable upon vesting of the Performance Units shall not be issued unless such shares are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
XIV.
. You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company, or Affiliates of the Company for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program.
Data Privacy and Notice of Consent
You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and the Program ("Data"). You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan and the Program, that these recipients may be located in your country, or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area and that the recipient's country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the Employer, the Company, Affiliates of the Company Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto), and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares received upon vesting of the Performance Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan and the Program. You understand that you may, at any time, view
 
Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan and the Program. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
XV. . If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan and/or the Program translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Language
XVI. . The terms of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law
XVII. . The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
Severability
XVIII. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and/or the Program by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
XIX. . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan and the Program, on the Performance Units and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and the Program, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
Imposition of Other Requirements
 
 
Accepted and Agreed,
this day of , 200.
            
                    
    
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern any Performance Units granted to you under the Plan if you are working in one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan, the Program and/or the Award Agreement to which this Appendix is attached.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of February 1, 2009. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be outdated when you acquire shares of Common Stock under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you.
 
AUSTRALIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or the Program or anything to the contrary in the Award Agreement, the Award does not provide any right for you to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in shares of Common Stock only.
Performance Units Payable Only in Shares.
AUSTRIA
NOTIFICATIONS
 You may be entitled to revoke acceptance of the Award on the basis of the Austrian Consumer Protection Act (the "Act") under the conditions listed below, if the Act is considered to be applicable to the Award, the Plan and the Program:
Consumer Protection Notification.
 
 
Exchange Control Notification.
When you sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, there may be exchange control obligations if the cash proceeds are held outside of Austria. If the transaction volume of all accounts abroad exceeds 3,000,000, the movements and balances of all accounts must be reported monthly, as of the last day of the month, on or before the 15th day of the following month, on the prescribed form ().
Meldungen SI-Forderungen und/oder SI-Verpflichtungen
BELGIUM
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Award granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any bank accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on your annual tax return.
Tax Reporting Notification.
 
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section VIII(k) of the Award Agreement:
Termination of Service.
In the event of involuntary termination of your employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), your right to receive an Award and vest in such Award under the Plan and the Program, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (1) the date you receive notice of termination of employment from the Company or your Employer, or (2) the date you are no longer actively employed by the Company or your Employer regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice required under local law (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). Your right, if any, to acquire shares of Common Stock pursuant to an Award after termination of employment will be measured by the date of termination of your active employment and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law; the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer employed for purposes of any Awards.
The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec:
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that this agreement, as well as all documents, notices, and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
Language Consent. 
""
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la rdaction en anglais de cette convention (
Agreement
), ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procdures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  ou suite  la prsente convention.
This provision supplements Section XIV of the Award Agreement:
Data Privacy Notice and Consent. 
You hereby authorize the Company and the Company's representative to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the administration and operation of the Plan and the Program. You further authorize the Company and your Employer to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also authorize the Company and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file.
CZECH REPUBLIC
NOTIFICATIONS
 Proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock may be held in a cash account abroad and you are no longer required to report the opening and maintenance of a foreign account to the Czech National Bank (the "CNB"), unless the CNB notifies you specifically that such reporting is required. Upon request of the CNB, you may need to file a notification within 15 days of the end of the calendar quarter in which you acquire shares of Common Stock.
Exchange Control Notification.
 
DENMARK
NOTIFICATIONS
If you establish an account holding shares or an account holding cash outside Denmark, you must report the account to the Danish Tax Administration. The form which should be used in this respect can be obtained from a local bank. (These obligations are separate from and in addition to the obligations described below.)
Exchange Control Information. 
If you hold shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in a brokerage account with a broker or bank outside Denmark, you are required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about the account. For this purpose, you must file a Form V () with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form V must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form V, the broker or bank undertakes to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the shares in the account without further request each year. By signing the Form V, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.
Securities/Tax Reporting Information. 
Erklaering V
In addition, if you open a brokerage account (or a deposit account with a U.S. bank) for the purpose of holding cash outside Denmark, you are also required to inform the Danish Tax Administration about this account. To do so, you must file a Form K () with the Danish Tax Administration. The Form K must be signed both by you and by the applicable broker or bank where the account is held. By signing the Form K, the broker/bank undertakes an obligation, without further request each year, to forward information to the Danish Tax Administration concerning the content of the account. By signing the Form K, you authorize the Danish Tax Administration to examine the account.
Erklaering K
FINLAND
There are no country-specific provisions.
GERMANY
There are no country-specific provisions.
GREECE
There are no country-specific provisions.
 
HONG KONG
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SECURITIES WARNING: The Performance Units and any shares of Common Stock issued in respect of Performance Units do not constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to Participants under the Program. The Award Agreement, including this Appendix, the Program, the Plan and other incidental communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a "prospectus" for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong, nor have the documents been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. The Performance Units and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each Participant under the Program and may not be distributed to any other person. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of the Award Agreement, including this Appendix, the Program or the Plan, you should obtain independent professional advice.
 Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or the Program or anything to the contrary in the Award Agreement, the Award does not provide any right for you to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in shares of Common Stock only.
Performance Units Payable Only in Shares.
 In the event that shares of Common Stock are issued in respect of Performance Units within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you agree that you will not dispose of such shares prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant Date.
Sale of Shares of Common Stock.
HUNGARY
There are no country-specific provisions.
INDIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section V of the Award Agreement:
Fringe Benefit Tax Obligation. 
By accepting the Award, you consent and agree to assume liability for any fringe benefit tax ("FBT") that may be payable by the Company and/or your Employer in connection with the Award. You understand that the grant of the Award is contingent upon your agreement to assume liability for FBT payable on the Award. Further, by accepting the Award granted hereunder, you agree that the Company and/or your Employer may collect the FBT from you by any of the means set forth, as applicable, in Section V of the Award Agreement, or by any other reasonable method established by the Company. You also agree to execute promptly any other consents or elections required to accomplish the foregoing, upon request of the Company.
 
NOTIFICATIONS
 You must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and the Program and any dividends received in relation to the shares of Common Stock to India within 90 days after receipt. You must maintain the foreign inward remittance certificate received from the bank where the foreign currency is deposited in the event that the Reserve Bank of India or your Employer requests proof of repatriation.
Exchange Control Notification.
IRELAND
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section VIII of the Award Agreement:
Nature of Grant. 
In accepting the Award granted hereunder, you acknowledge your understanding and agreement that the benefits received under the Plan will not be taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim.
NOTIFICATIONS
 If you are a director, shadow director or secretary of an Irish Affiliate, you must notify the Irish Affiliate in writing within five (5) business days of receiving or disposing of an interest in the Company ( an Award or shares of Common Stock) in the Company, or within five (5) business days of becoming aware of the event giving rise to the notification requirement, or within five (5) business days of becoming a director or secretary if such an interest exists at the time. This notification requirement also applies with respect to the interests of a spouse or minor children (whose interests, if any, will be attributed to the director, shadow director or secretary).
Director Notification Requirements.
e.g.,
ITALY
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The following provision replaces Section XIV of the Award Agreement:
Data Privacy Consent.
You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use, processing and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described herein by and among, as applicable, your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program.
You understand that your Employer, the Company and any Affiliate may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance (to the extent permitted under Italian law) or
 
other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company or any Affiliate, details of all Awards granted, or any other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan and the Program ("Data").
You also understand that providing the Company with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and the Program and that your refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Company to perform its contractual obligations and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan and the Program. The Controller of personal data processing is Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its Representative in Italy for privacy purposes is Amgen Dompe S.p.A., with registered offices at Via Tazzoli, 6  20154 Milan, Italy.
You understand that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan and the Program. You understand that Data may also be transferred to the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by the Company. You further understand that the Company and/or any Affiliate will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program, and that the Company and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan and the Program, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock issued in respect of the Award. Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Plan and the Program. You understand that these recipients may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere. Should the Company exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan and the Program, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan and the Program.
You understand that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions, as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003.
The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require your consent thereto, as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan. You understand that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, you have the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing.
 
Furthermore, you are aware that Data will not be used for direct-marketing purposes. In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting your local human resources representative.
By accepting the Award granted hereunder, you acknowledge that (1) you have received a copy of the Plan, the Program, the Award Agreement and this Appendix; (2) you have reviewed the applicable documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the Plan, the Program, the Award Agreement and this Appendix.
Acknowledgement of Nature of Grant.
You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and explicitly approve, without limitation, the following sections of the Award Agreement: Section III, Section IV, Section V, Section VIII, Section III, Section XIV (as replaced by the above consent), Section XV and Section XIX.
LITHUANIA
There are no country-specific provisions.
MEXICO
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
In accepting the Award granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan and the Program, have reviewed the Plan and the Program and the Award Agreement, including this Appendix, in their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan, the Program and the Award Agreement, including this Appendix. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms and conditions of Section VIII of the Award Agreement, in which the following is clearly described and established:
Acknowledgement of the Grant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 In accepting any Award granted hereunder, you expressly recognize that Amgen Inc., with registered offices at One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares of Common Stock do not constitute an employment relationship between you and Amgen Inc. since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your sole employer is Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ("Amgen-Mexico"). Based on the foregoing, you expressly recognize that the Plan and the Program and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan and the Program do not establish any rights between you and your Employer, Amgen-Mexico, and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Amgen-Mexico and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your employment.
Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement.
You further understand that your participation in the Plan and the Program is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of Amgen Inc.; therefore, Amgen Inc. reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you.
Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against Amgen Inc. for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to Amgen Inc., its Affiliates, shareholders, officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.
Spanish Translation
 Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento de Acciones bajo el presente documento, usted reconoce que ha recibido una copia del Plan y del Programa, que ha revisado el Plan y el Programa, as como tambin el Apndice en su totalidad, adems que comprende y est de acuerdo con todas las disposiciones tanto del Plan, del Programa y del Otorgamiento, incluyendo este Apndice. Asimismo, usted reconoce que ha ledo y manifiesta especficamente y expresamente la conformidad con los trminos y condiciones establecidos en la Seccin VIII del Acuerdo del Otorgamiento, en los que se establece y describe claramente que:
Reconocimiento del Otorgamiento.
 
 
 
 
 
Al aceptar cualquier Otorgamiento bajo el presente, usted reconoce expresamente que Amgen Inc., con oficinas registradas localizadas en One Amgen Center Drive, Thousand Oaks, California 91320, U.S.A., es la nica responsable de la administracin del Plan y que su participacin en el mismo y la adquisicin de Acciones Comunes no constituyen de ninguna manera una relacin laboral entre usted y Amgen Inc., debido a que su participacin en el Plan es nicamente una relacin comercial y que su nico empleador es Amgen Latin America Services, S.A. de C.V. ("Amgen-Mexico"). Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y el Programa y los beneficios a su favor que pudieran derivar de la participacin en el mismo, no establecen ningn derecho entre usted y su empleador, Amgen  Mxico, y no forman parte de las condiciones laborales y/o los beneficios otorgados por Amgen  Mxico, y cualquier modificacin del Plan o la terminacin del mismo no constituir un cambio o desmejora de los trminos y condiciones de su trabajo.
Reconocimiento de la Ley Laboral y Declaracin de Poltica.
Asimismo, usted entiende que su participacin en el Plan y en el Programa es resultado de la decisin unilateral y discrecional de Amgen Inc., por lo tanto, Amgen Inc. se reserva el derecho absoluto de modificar y/o descontinuar su participacin en el Plan en cualquier momento y sin ninguna responsabilidad para usted.
Finalmente, usted manifiesta que no se reserva ninguna accin o derecho que origine una demanda en contra de Amgen Inc., por cualquier compensacin o daos y perjuicios, en relacin con cualquier disposicin del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del mismo, y en consecuencia usted exime amplia y completamente a Amgen Inc. de toda responsabilidad, como as tambin a sus Afiliadas, accionistas, directores, agentes o representantes legales con respecto a cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.
NETHERLANDS
NOTIFICATIONS
You should be aware of Dutch insider-trading rules, which may impact the sale of shares of Common Stock issued in respect of the Award. In particular, you may be prohibited from effectuating certain transactions if you have insider information regarding the Company.
Securities Law Notification. 
By accepting the Award granted hereunder and participating in the Plan and the Program, you acknowledge having read and understood this Securities Law Notification and further acknowledge that it is your responsibility to comply with the following Dutch insider-trading rules:
Under Article 46 of the Act on the Supervision of the Securities Trade 1995, anyone who has "inside information" related to the Company is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or from the Netherlands. "Inside information" is knowledge of a detail concerning the issuer to which the securities relate that is not public and which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the stock price, regardless of the development of the price.
Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees of the Company working at an Affiliate in the Netherlands (including persons eligible to participate in the Plan and the Program) may have inside information and, thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when in possession of such inside information.
 
NORWAY
There are no country-specific provisions.
POLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
Polish residents holding foreign securities (including shares of Common Stock) and maintaining accounts abroad must report information to the National Bank of Poland on transactions and balances of the securities and cash deposited in such accounts if the value of such transactions or balances exceeds 10,000. If required, the reports are due on a quarterly basis by the 20th day following the end of each quarter. The reports are filed on special forms available on the website of the National Bank of Poland.
Exchange Control Notification. 
PORTUGAL
NOTIFICATIONS
If you do not hold the shares of Common Stock issued in respect of the Award with a Portuguese financial intermediary, you may need to file a report with the Portuguese Central Bank. If the shares are held by a Portuguese financial intermediary, it will file the report for you.
Exchange Control Notification. 
PUERTO RICO
There are no country-specific provisions.
RUSSIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 The Award granted hereunder, the Award Agreement, including this Appendix, the Program, the Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan and the Program or the Award granted hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of shares of Common Stock in respect of the Award has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, such shares may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.
Securities Law Requirements.
In no event will shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan be delivered to you in Russia; all shares of Common Stock will be maintained on your behalf in the United States.
 
You are not permitted to sell any shares acquired under the Plan directly to a Russian legal entity or resident.
NOTIFICATIONS
You must repatriate the proceeds from the sale of shares acquired under the Plan (and any dividends received in relation to such shares) to Russia within a reasonably short period after receipt. The sale proceeds and any dividends received must be initially credited to you through a foreign currency account opened in your name at an authorized bank in Russia. After the funds are initially received in Russia, they may be further remitted to a foreign bank subject to the following limitations: (i) the foreign account may be opened only for individuals; (ii) the foreign account may not be used for business activities; (iii) the Russian tax authorities must be given notice about the opening/closing of each foreign account within one month of the account opening/closing; and (iv) the Russian tax authorities must be given notice of the account balances of such foreign accounts as of the beginning of each calendar year.
Exchange Control Notification. 
SLOVAKIA
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to notify the Slovak National Bank with respect to the establishment of accounts abroad within 15 days of the end of the calendar year. The notification forms may be found at the Slovak National Bank website (). You should consult your personal legal advisor to determine which forms you must submit and when such forms will be due.
Exchange Control Information.
www.nbs.sk
SLOVENIA
There are no country-specific provisions.
SPAIN
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 The following provision supplements Section VIII of the Award Agreement:
Labor Law Acknowledgement.
By accepting the Award granted hereunder, you consent to participation in the Plan and the Program and acknowledge that you have received a copy of the Plan and the Program.
You understand that the Company has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant the Award under the Plan and the Program to individuals who may be employees of the Company or its Affiliates throughout the world. The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that the Awards granted will not economically or otherwise bind the Company or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in the applicable Award Agreement, including this Appendix. Consequently, you
 
understand that the Award granted hereunder is given on the assumption and condition that it shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Company or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant of the Award since the future value of the Award and any shares of Common Stock that may be issued in respect of such Award is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that the Award granted hereunder would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then the grant of the Award or right to the Award shall be null and void.
NOTIFICATIONS
When receiving foreign currency payments derived from the ownership of shares acquired under the Plan (, dividends or sale proceeds), you must inform the financial institution receiving the payment of the basis upon which such payment is made. You will need to provide the institution with the following information: (i) your name, address, and fiscal identification number; (ii) the name and corporate domicile of the Company; (iii) the amount of the payment and the currency used; (iv) the country of origin; (v) the reasons for the payment; and (vi) further information that may be required.
Exchange Control Notification.
i.e.
If you acquire shares of Common Stock under the Plan and wish to import the ownership title of such shares (, share certificates) into Spain, you must declare the importation of such securities to the .
i.e.
Direccion General de Poltica Comercial y de Inversiones Extranjeras
SWEDEN
There are no country-specific provisions.
SWITZERLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
 The Award offered hereunder is considered a private offering in Switzerland and is, therefore, not subject to registration in Switzerland.
Securities Law Notification.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
There are no country-specific provisions.
 
UNITED KINGDOM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section V of the Award Agreement:
Tax Withholding.
You agree that if you do not pay or your Employer or the Company does not withhold from you the full amount of Tax Obligations that you owe due at issuance of shares of Common Stock in respect of the Performance Units, or the release or assignment of the Performance Units for consideration, or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Performance Units (the "Taxable Event") within 90 days after the Taxable Event, or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, then the amount that should have been withheld shall constitute a loan owed by you to your Employer, effective 90 days after the Taxable Event. You agree that the loan will bear interest at the official rate of HM Revenue and Customs ("HMRC") and will be immediately due and repayable by you, and the Company and/or your Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by withholding (subject to Section V of the Agreement) the funds from salary, bonus or any other funds due to you by your Employer, by withholding in shares of Common Stock issued in respect of the Performance Units or from the cash proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock or by demanding cash or a check from you. You also authorize the Company to delay the issuance of any shares of Common Stock to you unless and until the loan is repaid in full.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of the immediately foregoing provision will not apply. In the event that you are an officer or executive director and Tax Obligations are not collected from or paid by you within 90 days of the Taxable Event, the amount of any uncollected Tax Obligations may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions may be payable. You acknowledge that the Company or your Employer may recover any such additional income tax and national insurance contributions at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in Section V of the Award Agreement.
As a condition of the Award, you agree to accept any liability for secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions (the "Employer NICs") which may be payable by the Company or your Employer with respect to the earning and/or payment of the Performance Units and issuance of shares of Common Stock in respect of the Performance Units, the assignment or release of the Performance Units for consideration or the receipt of any other benefit in connection with the Performance Units.
Joint Election.
Without limitation to the foregoing, you agree to make an election (the "Election"), in the form specified and/or approved for such election by HMRC, that the liability for the Secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contribution payments on any such gains shall be transferred to you to the fullest extent permitted by law. You further agree to execute such other elections as may be required between you and any successor to the Company and/or your Employer. You hereby authorizes the Company and your Employer to withhold such Secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contributions by any of the means set forth in Section V of the Award Agreement.
Failure by you to enter into an Election, withdrawal of approval of the Election by HMRC or a joint revocation of the Election by you and the Company or your Employer, as applicable, shall be grounds for the forfeiture and cancellation of the Performance Units, without any liability to the Company or your Employer.
 

Exhibit 10.6
The purpose of this document is to set forth the general terms and conditions applicable to the Amgen 2009 Director Equity Incentive Program (the "") established by the Board of Directors of Amgen Inc. (the "") pursuant to the Company's 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the ""). The Program is intended to carry out the purposes of the 2009 Plan and provide a means to reinforce objectives for sustained long-term performance and value creation by awarding each Non-Employee Director of the Company with stock awards, subject to the restrictions and other provisions of the Program and the 2009 Plan. The Program shall be effective as of the date the 2009 Plan is approved by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "").
Program
Company
2009 Plan
Effective Date
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the 2009 Plan.
"" shall mean the spouse, former spouse or child of an Eligible Director.
Alternate Payee
"" shall mean an Option or a Restricted Stock Unit granted to an Eligible Director pursuant to the Program.
Award
"" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, together with the regulations and official guidance promulgated thereunder.
Code
"" shall mean the common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
"" shall mean a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
Eligible Director
"" or "" shall mean a stock option which does not qualify as an incentive stock option as that term is used in Section 422 of the Code.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
NQSO
"" shall mean a Non-Qualified Stock Option granted to an Eligible Director pursuant to the Program.
Option
"" shall mean a court order (i) that creates or recognizes the right of the spouse, former spouse or child of an individual who is granted an Award to an interest in such Award relating to marital property rights or support obligations and (ii) that the Board determines would be a "qualified domestic relations order," as that term is defined in Section 414(p) of the Code and Section 206(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (""), but for the fact that the Program is not a plan described in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
QDRO
ERISA
"" shall mean a restricted right to receive a share of Common Stock granted pursuant to Article IV.
Restricted Stock Unit
3.1 . Each person who becomes an Eligible Director after the Effective Date shall, on the date which is two business days after the release of the Company's quarterly or annual earnings next following the date such person first becomes an Eligible Director, automatically be granted, without further action by the Company, the Board, or the Company's stockholders, an Option to purchase twenty thousand (20,000) shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Should the date of grant set forth above be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such grant shall be made on the next business day.
Inaugural Grants
3.2 . On the date which is two business days after the release of the Company's quarterly earnings for the first fiscal quarter of each year after the Effective Date, each person who is at that time an Eligible Director shall automatically be granted, without further action by the Company, the Board, or the Company's stockholders, an Option to purchase five thousand (5,000) shares of Common Stock on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Should the date of grant set forth above be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such grant shall be made on the next business day.
Annual Grants
3.3 .
Terms of Options
(a) Each Option granted pursuant to the Program shall constitute a Non-Qualified Stock Option under the 2009 Plan. The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as set forth in this Section 3.3 and Articles 6 and 7 of the 2009 Plan.
(b) No Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
(c) The exercise price of each Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.
 
(d) The purchase price of Common Stock acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either: (i) in cash at the time the Option is exercised; or (ii) at the discretion of the Board, either at the time of grant or exercise of the Option (A) by delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock that have been held for such period of time as may be required in order to avoid adverse accounting consequences, or (B) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board in its discretion; including but not limited to payment of the purchase price pursuant to a program developed under Regulation T as promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board which results in the receipt of cash (or a check) by the Company before Common Stock is issued or the receipt of irrevocable instruction to pay the aggregate exercise price to the Company from the sales proceeds before Common Stock is issued.
(e) An Option shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Eligible Director only by the Eligible Director, and after the death of the Eligible Director, the Option shall be exercisable by the person or persons to whom the Eligible Director's rights under such option pass by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
(f) Each Option that is granted to an Eligible Director who has as of the date of grant provided three (3) years of prior continuous service on the Board as an Eligible Director shall be fully vested as of the date of grant. Each Option that is granted to an Eligible Director who has not as of the date of grant provided three (3) years of prior continuous service as an Eligible Director shall be fully vested as of the date upon which such Eligible Director has provided one year of continuous service on the Board as an Eligible Director following the date of grant of such Option. If the Eligible Director's relationship as a director of the Company or an Affiliate is terminated by reason of the Eligible Director's death or disability (within the meaning of Title II or XVI of the Social Security Act or comparable statute applicable to an Affiliate and with such permanent and total disability certified by (i) the Social Security Administration, (ii) the comparable governmental authority applicable to an Affiliate, (iii) such other body having the relevant decision-making power applicable to an Affiliate, or (iv) an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company, as applicable, prior to such termination), then the vesting schedule of each Option granted to such Eligible Director shall be accelerated by twelve months for each full year the Eligible Director has been affiliated with the Company and/or an Affiliate.
(g) The Company may require any holder under this Article III, or any person to whom an Option is transferred under Section 3.3(e), as a condition of exercising any such option: (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to such person's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative who has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters, and that such person is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Option; and (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that such person is acquiring the Common Stock subject to the Option for such person's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Common Stock. These requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall be inoperative if: (x) the issuance of the shares upon the exercise of the Option has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act; or (y) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities law.
 
4.1 . On the date which is two business days after the release of the Company's quarterly earnings for the first fiscal quarter of each year after the Effective Date, each person who is at that time an Eligible Director shall automatically be granted, without further action by the Company, the Board, or the Company's stockholders, Restricted Stock Units to acquire a number of shares of Common Stock (rounded down to the nearest whole number) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) $100,000, by (y) the closing market price of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant (rounded to two decimal places). Should the date of grant set forth in this Section 4.1 be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such grant shall be made on the next business day. Restricted Stock Units shall constitute Restricted Stock Units under Section 9.5 of the 2009 Plan.
Annual Grants
4.2 .
Terms of Restricted Stock Units
(a) Each Restricted Stock Unit granted pursuant to this Program shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate. The provisions of separate Restricted Stock Units need not be identical, but each Restricted Stock Unit shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Restricted Stock Unit agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions as set forth this Section 4.2 and Section 9.5 of the 2009 Plan.
(b) Each grant of Restricted Stock Units made to an Eligible Director who has as of the date of grant provided three (3) years of prior continuous service on the Board as an Eligible Director shall be fully vested as of the date of grant and each grant of Restricted Stock Units that is made to an Eligible Director who has not as of the date of grant provided three (3) years of prior continuous service as an Eligible Director shall be fully vested as of the date upon which such Eligible Director has provided one year of continuous service on the Board as an Eligible Director following the date of grant of such Restricted Stock Units (in each case, such date of vesting the ""). If the Eligible Director's relationship as a director of the Company or an Affiliate is terminated by reason of the Eligible Director's death or total and permanent disability (as certified by an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company prior to such termination) and in a manner constituting a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, then a prorated number (rounded down to the nearest whole number) of unvested Restricted Stock Units, if any, shall vest immediately upon such death or disability, determined by multiplying the number of unvested Restricted Stock Units, if any, by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of continuous service during the one year period following the date of grant and the denominator of which is 12.
Vesting Date
 
(c) A holder's vested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid by the Company in shares of Common Stock (on a one-to-one basis) on, or as soon as practicable after, the Vesting Date (the ""), but in any event by the fifteenth day of the third month following the end of the tax year in which such Restricted Stock Units vest, unless the Eligible Director has irrevocably elected in writing by December 31 of the year preceding the grant of such Restricted Stock Units to defer the payment of such Restricted Stock Units, and any dividends paid thereon, to another date under one of the following options, which payment form or forms (including payment upon death or disability as provided above) shall be specified at the time of the deferral election (the ""): (i) full payment of the vested Restricted Stock Units in January of a year specified by the Eligible Director which shall be no earlier than the third calendar year following the calendar year in which the date of grant occurs and no later than the tenth calendar year following such year; (ii) full payment of the vested Restricted Stock Units in January of the calendar year following the year in which the Eligible Director with respect to whom the Restricted Stock Units were granted ceases to be an Eligible Director and ceases to otherwise provide services to the Company in a manner that constitutes a "separation from service" (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) for any reason; (iii) payment of the vested Restricted Stock Units in five substantially equal annual installments, commencing in January of the calendar year following the year in which the Eligible Director with respect to whom the Restricted Stock Units were granted ceases to be an Eligible Director and ceases to otherwise provide services to the Company in a manner that constitutes a "separation from service" (within the meaning Code Section 409A) for any reason; or (iv) payment of the vested Restricted Stock Units in ten substantially equal annual installments, commencing in January of the calendar year following the year in which the Eligible Director with respect to whom the Restricted Stock Units were granted ceases to be an Eligible Director and ceases to otherwise provide services to the Company in a manner that constitutes a "separation from service" (within the meaning Code Section 409A) for any reason. Shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Restricted Stock Unit shall be deemed to be issued in consideration for future services to be rendered or past services actually rendered to the Company or for its benefit, by the Eligible Director, which the Board deems to have a value not less than the par value of a share of Common Stock.
Payment Date
Deferred Payment Date
4.3 . If an Eligible Director has elected to defer payment of his or her vested Restricted Stock Units as provided in Section 4.2(c) above and the Company pays any dividends with respect to the Common Stock at any time during the period between the Payment Date and the Deferred Payment Date, the holder of such vested Restricted Stock Units shall be credited, as of the dividend payment date, with dividend equivalents equal to the amount of the dividends which would have been payable to such holder if the holder held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of vested Restricted Stock Units so deferred. Such dividend equivalents shall be deemed reinvested in the Common Stock on the dividend payment date and shall be paid by the Company in shares of Common Stock on the Deferred Payment Date. Such dividend equivalents shall constitute Dividend Equivalents under Section 9.2 of the 2009 Plan.
Dividend Equivalents
 
5.1 . The Program shall be administered by the Board.
Administration of the Program
5.2 . The Program is subject to all the provisions of the 2009 Plan, including Section 13.2 thereof (relating to adjustments upon changes in the Common Stock), and its provisions are hereby made a part of the Program, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the 2009 Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Program and those of the 2009 Plan, the provisions of the 2009 Plan shall control.
Application of 2009 Plan
5.3 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Board may, at any time, terminate, modify or suspend the Program; that, without the prior consent of the Eligible Directors affected, no such action may adversely affect any rights or obligations with respect to any Awards theretofore earned but unpaid, whether or not the amounts of such Awards have been computed and whether or not such Awards are then payable. Any amendment of this Program may, in the sole discretion of the Board, be accomplished in a manner calculated to cause such amendment not to constitute an "extension," "renewal" or "modification" (each within the meaning of Code Section 409A) of any Restricted Stock Units that would cause such Restricted Stock Units to be considered "nonqualified deferred compensation" (within the meaning of Code Section 409A).
Amendment and Termination
provided, however,
5.4 . Nothing contained in the Program or in any document related to the Program or to any Award shall confer upon any Eligible Director any right to continue as a director or in the service or employment of the Company or an Affiliate or constitute any contract or agreement of service or employment for a specific term or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or an Affiliate to reduce such person's compensation, to change the position held by such person or to terminate the service of such person, with or without cause.
No Contract for Employment
5.5 .
Nontransferability
(a) No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Program shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of any Eligible Director or beneficiary; provided, however, that, nothing in this Section 6.5 shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution, (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides, or (iv) of any Non-Qualified Stock Option, which is granted after December 10, 2007 or any Non-Qualified Stock Option which is outstanding on December 10, 2007 and which has an exercise price which is not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the Non-Qualified
 
Stock Option as of such date, to a trust for which the Eligible Director grantor is a trustee of the trust or a beneficiary of the trust with investment control over the trust assets and which trust qualifies as a "family member" of the Eligible Director, as defined under the instructions to use of the Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act (a "").
Trust
(b) The transfer to an Alternate Payee of an Award pursuant to a QDRO, or to a Trust of a Non-Qualified Stock Option shall not be treated as having caused a new grant. If an Award is so transferred, the Alternate Payee or Trust generally has the same rights as the Eligible Director under the terms of the Program; , that (i) the Award shall be subject to the same terms and conditions, including the vesting terms, option termination provisions and exercise period, as if the Award were still held by the Eligible Director, and (ii) such Alternate Payee or Trust may not transfer an Award. In the event of the Company Stock Administrator's receipt of a domestic relations order or other notice of adverse claim by an Alternate Payee of an Eligible Director of an Award, transfer of the proceeds of the exercise of such Award, whether in the form of cash, stock or other property, may be suspended. Such proceeds shall thereafter be transferred pursuant to the terms of a QDRO or other agreement between the Eligible Director and Alternate Payee. An Eligible Director's ability to exercise an Award may be barred if the Company Stock Administrator receives a court order directing the Company Stock Administrator not to permit exercise.
provided however
5.6 . No Eligible Director, beneficiary or other person shall have any right, title or interest in any fund or in any specific asset of the Company or any Affiliate by reason of any award hereunder. There shall be no funding of any benefits which may become payable hereunder. Nothing contained in this Program (or in any document related thereto), nor the creation or adoption of this Program, nor any action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Program shall create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and any Eligible Director, beneficiary or other person. To the extent that an Eligible Director, beneficiary or other person acquires a right to receive payment with respect to an award hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or other employing entity, as applicable. All amounts payable under this Program shall be paid from the general assets of the Company or employing entity, as applicable, and no special or separate fund or deposit shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts. Nothing in this Program shall be deemed to give any person any right to participate in this Program except in accordance herewith.
Nature of Program
5.7 . This Program shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law thereof.
Governing Law
5.8 . To the extent that this Program constitutes a "non-qualified deferred compensation plan" within the meaning of with Code Section 409A and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date, this Program shall be interpreted and operated in accordance with Code Section 409A. Notwithstanding any provision of this Program to the contrary, in the event
Code Section 409A
 
that following the grant of any Restricted Stock Units, the Board determines that any Award does or may violate any of the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Board may adopt such amendments to the Program and any affected Award or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Board determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Program and any such Award from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to the Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A; , , that this paragraph shall not create an obligation on the part of the Board to adopt any such amendment, policy or procedure or take any such other action.
provided
however
 

Exhibit 10.7
__________________, Amgen Inc. Stock Optionee:
AMGEN INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to its Amgen 2009 Director Equity Incentive Program (the "Program"), which implements the Amgen Inc. 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), has this day granted to you, the optionee named above, an option (this "Option") to purchase ______ shares of the $.0001 par value common stock of the Company ("Shares") pursuant to the terms of this Grant of Stock Option, including any appendix hereto (as further described in Section 21 below) containing special terms and conditions applicable to your country (collectively, this "Agreement"). This Option is not intended to qualify and will not be treated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (together with the regulations and other official guidance promulgated thereunder) (the "Code"). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan and/or the Program.
The provisions of your option are as follows:
1. [Subject to the limitations contained herein, this Option shall vest on [] (the "Grant Date"). [Subject to the provisions contained herein, this Option shall vest on [], provided that from the date of grant of this Option through the vesting date, you have continuously served as a Non-Employee Director as that term is defined in the Plan) of the Company.]
[select vesting schedule based on Director's length of service]
grant date
one year from grant date
2. (a) The per-share exercise price of this Option is $, being not less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant of this Option.
            
(b) To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full in cash or check upon exercise of all or any part of this Option which has become exercisable by you. However, if at the time of exercise, the Company's Common Stock is publicly traded and quoted regularly in the and you are in the United States, payment of the exercise price may be made by delivery of already-owned Shares of a value equal to the exercise price of the Shares for which this Option is being exercised. The already-owned Shares must have been owned by you for the period required to avoid adverse accounting consequences and owned free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances or security interests. Payment may also be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
Wall Street Journal
3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Option may not be exercised unless the Shares issuable upon exercise of this Option are then registered under the Securities Act, or, if such Shares are not then so registered, the Company has determined that such exercise and issuance would be exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
[select section 4 with acceleration provisions if option not fully vested at date of grant]
[4. The term of this Option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated pursuant to the Program or the Plan, terminates on _________ (which date shall be no more than ten (10) years from the date this Option is granted).]
4. The term of this Option commences on the date hereof and, unless sooner terminated pursuant to the Program or the Plan, terminates on _________ (which date shall be no more than _____ (__) years from the date this Option is granted). If you cease to be an Eligible Director due to a) your permanent and total disability (as certified by an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company prior to such termination), or (b) your death, then the vesting schedule of unvested portions of the option will be accelerated by twelve (12) months for each full year that you have been affiliated as a director with the Company.
However, in any and all circumstances and except to the extent the vesting schedule has been accelerated by the Company in its sole discretion during the term of this option or as a result of your permanent and total disability or death as provided above, this option may be exercised following termination of your relationship as a director of the Company only as to that number of shares as to which it was exercisable on the date of such termination provisions of paragraph 1 of this option. For purposes of this option, "termination of your relationship as a director of the Company" shall mean the last date you are a Director of the Company.
5. To the extent specified above, this Option may be exercised by delivering a Notice of Exercise of Stock Option form, together with the exercise price to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other person as the Company may designate, during regular business hours, together with such additional documents as the Company may then require pursuant to Article 7 of the Plan.
6. This Option is not transferable, except as set forth below:
(a) By will or the laws of descent and distribution; and
(b) The transfer of this Option by you to a Trust or an Alternate Payee (in each case, as defined in and pursuant to the terms of the Program).
7. This Option is exercisable during your life only by you, except that, to the extent this Option or any portion thereof is transferred to an Alternate Payee or a Trust in accordance with the terms of the Program and Section 6(b) above, such Alternate Payee or Trust may exercise the Option or such portion thereof so transferred.
8. This Option is not an employment or consulting contract and nothing in this Option shall be deemed to create, in any way whatsoever, any obligation on the part of the Non-Employee Director on whose behalf the Option right was created, to continue to serve as a Director of the Company, or of the Company to continue such Non-Employee Director's service as a Director of the Company.
 
9. Any notices provided for in this Option, the Program or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at the address specified below or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company.
10. In accepting this Option, you acknowledge that:
(a) the Program and Plan are established voluntarily by the Company, are discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;
(b) the grant of this Option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right receive future options, or benefits in lieu of options, even if options have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(c) your participation in the Program and Plan is voluntary;
(d) all decisions with respect to future grants of options, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(e) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(f) if the underlying Shares do not increase in value, this Option will have no value; if you exercise this Option and obtain Shares, the value of those Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the exercise price;
(g) in consideration of this Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of this Option resulting from termination of your service as an Eligible Director (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim; and
(h) this Option and benefits under the Program and Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.
11. The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Program and Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Program and Plan before taking any action related to the Program and Plan.
 
12. (a) You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Option by and among, as applicable, the Company or Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan.
(b) You understand that the Company or its Affiliates may hold certain personal information about you, including, without limitation, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Program and Plan ("Data"). You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto) or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Program and Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient's country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than in your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Company. You authorize the Company, Affiliates, Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto) and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Program and Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares received upon exercise of this Option may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Program and Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Company. You understand that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Program and Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the Company.
13. If you have received this Option or any other document related to the Program and Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version differs from the English version, the English version shall control.
14. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Program and Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Program and Plan through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.
 
15. The provisions of this Option are severable and if any one or more are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
16. (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the time during which the Non-Qualified Stock Options may be exercised shall automatically be accelerated to prior to the Change of Control.
(b) Upon and following the acceleration of the vesting and exercise periods, at your election, the Option may be: (x) exercised; or, if the surviving or acquiring corporation agrees to assume the Options or substitute a similar Awards, (y) assumed; or (z) replaced with a substitute awards. If the Option is not exercised, substituted or assumed prior to or upon the Change of Control, the Option shall be terminated. The Board or the Committee, in its sole discretion, may cause any such assumption or substitution to be conducted in a manner so as not to constitute an "extension," "renewal" or "modification" (each within the meaning of Code Section 409A) of the Option that would cause any such Award to be considered "nonqualified deferred compensation" (within the meaning of Code Section 409A).
(c) "" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(i) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors; or
(ii) individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a Director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
(iii) the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%)
 
of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(iv) any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole discretion determines constitutes a Change of Control.
Notwithstanding anything herein or in any Award Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Award that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) must also constitute a "change in control event," as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Award.
17. This Option is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and Program and their provisions are hereby made a part of this Option, including without limitation the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the Plan relating to option provisions, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules, and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Option and those of the Plan and Program, the provisions of the Plan and Program shall control.
18. The terms of this Option shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United State for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this agreement is made and/or to be performed.
19. This Option is not intended to constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, but rather is intended to be exempt from the application of Code Section 409A. To the extent that this Option is nevertheless deemed to be subject to Code Section 409A for any reason, this Option shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and U.S. Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Grant Date. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, in the event that following the Grant Date, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) determines that this Option may be or become subject to Code Section 409A, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or this Option or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Plan and/or this Option from the application of Code Section 409A and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to this Option, or (b) comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A; , , that this paragraph shall not create an obligation on the part of the Committee to adopt any such amendment, policy or procedure or take any such other action.
provided
however
 
21. Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Program and Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.
20. The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Program and Plan, on this Option and on any Shares acquired under the Program and Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Program and Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
Dated the ___ day of ___________.
 
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Option to purchase Shares under the Program and Plan if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, or are deemed to be a resident of one of the countries listed below. Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern the Option granted hereunder may apply to you if you relocate to one of the countries listed below. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Program and Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Program and Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of February 1, 2009. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Program and Plan because the information may be outdated when you exercise the Option, acquire Shares under the Program and Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Program and Plan.
In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions.
 
ALL NON-U.S. JURISDICTIONS
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The following provision replaces Section 2(b):
Method of Exercise. 
To the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, payment of the exercise price per share is due in full in cash or check upon exercise of all or any part of this Option which has become exercisable by you. Due to legal restrictions outside the U.S., you are not permitted to pay the exercise price by delivery of already-owned Shares of a value equal to the exercise price of the Shares for which this Option is being exercised. Furthermore, payment may not be made by a combination of cash and already-owned Common Stock.
BELGIUM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The Option granted hereunder must be accepted in writing within 60 days of the offer (and will be subject to taxation on the 60th day following the offer date of the Option, the offer date being defined as the date on which these documents have been sent to you). If you do not accept the Option in writing within 60 days of the offer, you will be deemed to have refused the grant. Please refer to the Option acceptance letter that you will receive along with the applicable Agreement for a more detailed description of the tax consequences of choosing to accept the Option. You should consult your personal tax advisor regarding completion of the additional forms.
Tax Considerations.
NOTIFICATIONS
You are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Option granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any bank accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on your annual tax return.
Tax Reporting Notification.
FRANCE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 By accepting the grant of the Option and this Agreement, which provides for the terms and conditions of the Option, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan, the Program and this Agreement), which were provided to you in English. You accept the terms of those documents accordingly.
Language Consent.
En acceptant cette attribution gratuite d'actions et ce contrat qui contient les termes et conditions de vos actions gratuites, vous confirmez avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs  cette attribution (le Plan, le Programme et ce contrat), qui vous ont t transmis en langue anglaise. Vous acceptez ainsi les conditions et termes de ces documents.
 
NOTIFICATIONS
 If you retain Shares outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.
Exchange Control Notification.
 

Exhibit 10.8
, Amgen Inc. Grantee:
                                             
On this day of (the ""), Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to its Amgen 2009 Director Equity Incentive Program (the "") which implements the Amgen Inc. 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), has granted to you, the grantee named above, restricted stock units (the "") with respect to Shares on the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, including any appendix hereto (as further described in Section XV below) containing special terms and conditions applicable to your country (collectively, this ""), and the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan and/or the Program.
    
                    
Grant Date
Company
Program
Plan
                    
Units
                    
Agreement
I. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in consideration for services previously rendered by you, one hundred percent (100%) of the Units shall vest upon [][the date hereof (the "")] ")][the date (the "") upon which you have provided one year of continuous service following the Grant Date; , that in the event you cease to be an Eligible Director by reason of your death or total and permanent disability (as certified by an independent medical advisor appointed by the Company prior to such termination), a prorated number of Units shall vest immediately upon such death or disability, determined by multiplying the number of unvested Units by a fraction (rounded to two decimal places), the numerator of which is the number of complete months of continuous service during the one year period following the Grant Date and the denominator of which is 12.]
Vesting Schedule
select a vesting date based on director's years of service, per program:
Vesting Date
Vesting Date
provided, however
II. . Any vested Units shall be paid by the Company in Shares (on a one-to-one basis) on, or as soon as practicable after, the Vesting Date (but in any event by the fifteenth day of the third month following the tax year in which they vest), unless you have irrevocably elected in writing by December 31 of the year preceding the Grant Date to defer the payment of such Units under one of the following options: (i) full payment of the vested Units in January of a year specified by you which shall be no earlier than the third calendar year following the calendar year in which the date of grant occurs and no later than the tenth calendar year following such year; (ii) full payment of the vested Units in January of the calendar year following the year in which you cease to be an Eligible Director (and experience a "separation from service" with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A) for any reason; (iii) payment of the vested Units in five substantially equal annual installments, commencing in January of the calendar year following the year in which you cease to be an Eligible Director (and experience a "separation from service" with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A) for any reason; or (iv) payment of the vested Units in ten substantially equal annual installments, commencing in January of the calendar year following the year in which you cease to be an Eligible Director (and experience a "separation from service" with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A) for any reason; , that no Shares shall be issued hereunder unless the Board determines that the consideration received by the Company in exchange for the issuance of Common Stock has a value not less than the par value thereof. Any deferral election made pursuant to this Section II shall specify the distribution schedule from the options provided in this Section II and shall be irrevocable.
Form and Timing of Payment
provided, however
 
III. . No benefit payable under, or interest in, this Agreement shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be, in any manner, liable for, or subject to, your or your beneficiary's debts, contracts, liabilities or torts; , nothing in this Section III shall prevent transfer (i) by will, (ii) by applicable laws of descent and distribution or (iii) to an Alternate Payee to the extent that a QDRO so provides, as further described in the Program.
Transferability
provided, however
IV. . This Agreement is not an employment or service contract and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Affiliate, or of the Company or any Affiliate to continue your employment or service with the Company or any Affiliate.
No Contract for Employment
V. . Any notices provided for in this Agreement, the Program or the Plan shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given upon receipt or, in the case of notices delivered by the Company to you, five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to you at such address as is currently maintained in the Company's records or at such other address as you hereafter designate by written notice to the Company.
Notices
VI. . In accepting the Units granted hereunder, you acknowledge that:
Nature of Grant
(a) the Program and Plan are established voluntarily by the Company, are discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;
(b) the grant of the Units is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Units, or benefits in lieu of Units, even if Units have been granted repeatedly in the past;
(c) your participation in the Program and Plan is voluntary;
(d) all decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
(e) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(f) in consideration of the grant of the Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Units resulting from termination of your service as an Eligible Director (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of
 
local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim; and
(g) the Units and the benefits under the Program and Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, takeover or transfer of liability.
VII. . The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding your participation in the Program and Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. You are hereby advised to consult with your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your participation in the Program and Plan before taking any action related to the Program and Plan.
No Advice Regarding Grant
VIII.
. You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Company or its Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan.
Data Privacy
You understand that the Company or its Affiliates may hold certain personal information about you, including, without limitation, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (to the extent permitted under applicable local law) or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all equity compensation or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Program and Plan ("Data"). You understand that Data may be transferred to Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto) or any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Program and Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient's country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Company. You authorize the Company, its Affiliates, Merrill Lynch Bank & Trust Co., FSB (or any successor thereto) and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering, and managing your participation in the Program and Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Program and Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to any other broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom the shares issued upon vesting of the Units may be deposited. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Program and Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the
 
storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Company. You understand that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to participate in the Program and Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact the Company.
IX. . If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Program and Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version differs from the English version, the English version shall control.
Language
X. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Program and Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Program and Plan through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
XI. . The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.
Severability
XII. .
Change of Control
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the time during which the Units become vested shall automatically be accelerated so that the unvested portions of all Units shall be vested prior to the Change of Control.
(b) "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or any of its Affiliates, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of fifty percent (50%) or more of either the then outstanding Shares or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors; or
(ii) individuals who, as of April 2, 1991, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a Director subsequent to April 2, 1991, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose
 
initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the Directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of the Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or
(iii) the consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, (in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities) or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(iv) any other event which the Incumbent Board in its sole discretion determines constitutes a Change of Control.
Notwithstanding anything in any Award Agreement to the contrary, if a Change of Control constitutes a payment event with respect to any Award that is subject to United States income tax and which provides for a deferral of compensation that is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the transaction or event described in subsection (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) must also constitute a "change in control event," as defined in U.S.Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5), in order to constitute a Change of Control for purposes of payment of such Award.
XIII. . This Agreement is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and Program and their provisions are hereby made a part of this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of Section 9.5 of the Plan relating to Restricted Stock Units, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Plan and the Program, the provisions of the Plan and the Program shall control.
Plan and Program
XIV. . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the parties shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises hereunder, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Delaware, or the federal courts for the United States for the federal district located in the State of Delaware, and no other courts, where this Agreement is made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law
XV. . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Program and Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.
Appendix
 
XVI. . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Units and on any Shares acquired under the Program and Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Program and Plan, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
Imposition of Other Requirements
 
 
 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern any Units granted under the Program and Plan Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the Program, the Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix is attached.
.
if, under applicable law, you are a resident of, or are deemed to be a resident of one of the countries listed below. Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern any Units granted hereunder may apply to you if you relocate to one of the countries listed below
NOTIFICATIONS
This Appendix also includes notifications relating to exchange control and other issues of which you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Program and Plan. The information is based on the exchange control, securities and other laws in effect in the countries to which this Appendix refers as of February 1, 2009. Such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Program and Plan because the information may be outdated when you vest in the Units and acquire Shares under the Program and Plan, or when you subsequently sell Shares acquired under the Program and Plan.
In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more jurisdictions.
 
BELGIUM
NOTIFICATIONS
 You are required to report any taxable income attributable to the Units granted hereunder on your annual tax return. You are also required to report any bank accounts opened and maintained outside Belgium on your annual tax return.
Tax Reporting Notification.
FRANCE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 By accepting the grant of Units and this Agreement which provides for the terms and conditions of your Units, you confirm having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan, the Program and this Agreement), which were provided to you in English. You accept the terms of those documents accordingly.
Language Consent.
En acceptant cette attribution gratuite d'actions et ce contrat qui contient les termes et conditions de vos actions gratuites, vous confirmez avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs  cette attribution (le Plan, le Programme et ce contrat), qui vous ont t transmis en langue anglaise. Vous acceptez ainsi les conditions et termes de ces documents.
NOTIFICATIONS
 If you retain Shares outside of France or maintain a foreign bank account, you are required to report such to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.
Exchange Control Notification.
 


