FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20100715100449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 15, 2010, Amgen Inc. (the "Company") publicly announced the appointment of Jonathan M. Peacock, age 52, to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer effective as of September 1, 2010. In connection with the appointment of Mr. Peacock, Michael A. Kelly, age 53, will no longer serve as Acting Chief Financial Officer. Upon Mr. Peacock's appointment, Mr. Kelly will assist Mr. Peacock in his transition to CFO and then relocate to the Company's offices in Zug, Switzerland to serve as the Company's Vice President, International Finance. Mr. Kelly will not be an executive officer of the Company, while Mr. Peacock will be an executive officer of the Company.
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer
On July 15, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") appointed Jonathan M. Peacock, age 52, to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer effective as of September 1, 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Peacock served as Chief Financial & Administration Officer of Novartis Pharmaceuticals AG, a healthcare products company ("Novartis") beginning in 2005. At Novartis, Mr. Peacock was responsible for finance, information technology, strategic planning and purchasing and mergers and acquisitions. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Peacock was a partner at McKinsey and Co., a management consulting firm, where he co-led the European Corporate Finance Practice. Prior to his tenure at McKinsey & Co., Mr. Peacock was a partner at Price Waterhouse, a public accounting firm, in London and New York from 1993 to 1998.
Mr. Peacock is a party to an offer letter and relocation agreement with the Company, which specifies his compensation, benefits and relocation assistance. Mr. Peacock's annual base compensation will be $800,000, and he is eligible to participate in the Company's management incentive plan at an incentive target of 80% of base compensation. In addition, Mr. Peacock will receive a $1,000,000 sign-on bonus. Mr. Peacock will also receive grants of 100,000 restricted stock units and 175,000 stock options issued pursuant to the Company's 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. To facilitate Mr. Peacock's relocation from Switzerland to the U.S., he will also receive our standard relocation package for international relocations, which includes, but is not limited to: (i) a house hunting trip and final travel arrangements for Mr. Peacock and his family; (ii) an allowance for temporary living accommodations; (iii) the relocation of household goods; (iv) reimbursement of penalties incurred due to a lease cancellation; (v) reimbursement of closing expenses related to the sale of Mr. Peacock's home; and (vi) reimbursement of incidental expenses and appliance costs. The total amount of the relocation package will not exceed $400,000 and Mr. Peacock will receive tax gross-up payments relating to the reimbursement of relocation expenses that are considered taxable.
Mr. Peacock will be entitled to standard perquisites offered to our Executive Vice Presidents, and participation in the Company's change-of-control plan modified to eliminate any excise tax reimbursement for Mr. Peacock. Mr. Peacock will also receive our standard severance agreement for newly hired officers that provides severance protection for three years following his hire date at a benefit multiple of 2x salary and target bonus plus 18 months COBRA coverage.
Mr. Peacock is eligible to participate in the Company's long-term compensation plans and health and welfare plans on the same terms offered to all plan participants.
Departure of Acting Chief Financial Officer
Michael A. Kelly, age 53, will no longer serve as Acting Chief Financial Officer effective September 1, 2010 and instead will serve as the Company's Vice President, International Finance (the position he was to assume prior to agreeing to serve as Acting Chief Financial Officer). In connection with this non-executive position he will relocate to the Company's offices in Zug, Switzerland in accordance with the relocation agreement entered into with Mr. Kelly prior to his appointment as Acting Chief Financial Officer.
Additional Information
There are no family relationships between Mr. Peacock and any other director or executive officer of the Company, or with any person selected to become an officer or a director of the Company.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Peacock and resignation of Mr. Kelly is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (July 15, 2010) Amgen (NASDAQ: AMGN) today announced the appointment effective Sept. 1 of Jonathan M. Peacock as chief financial officer (CFO). He will be responsible for Amgen's finance and investor relations operations. Peacock will report to Kevin W. Sharer, Amgen's chairman and chief executive officer, and will succeed Michael A. Kelly, who served as acting CFO since May 2010.
Peacock, 52, joins Amgen from Novartis Pharmaceutical AG, where he served as CFO and administration officer since 2005. In that role, Peacock led the finance, information technology, purchasing, strategic planning and mergers and acquisitions functions.
Previously, Peacock was a partner at McKinsey and Company, where he was co-leader of the European corporate finance practice working in the consulting firm's Amsterdam, Zurich and London offices. He also was a partner at Price Waterhouse in New York and London. He has an MA degree in Economics from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland and is a chartered accountant.
"I am delighted to have a leader of Jonathan's talent, vision and international experience join Amgen at a time when we are expanding globally," said Sharer.
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops, manufactures and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe and effective medicines from lab, to manufacturing plant, to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and other serious illnesses. With a deep and broad pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and our vital medicines, visit .
www.amgen.com
CONTACT: Amgen, Thousand Oaks
David Polk, 805-447-4613 (media)
Arvind Sood, 805-447-1060 (investors)


