FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20111013185423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On October 13, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Amgen Inc. (the "Company") increased the size of its Board from twelve to thirteen members and appointed Robert A. Bradway, the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, as a director of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. Bradway will not receive any additional compensation for serving as a director and will not serve on any committees of the Board.
There are no other relationships or transactions between Mr. Bradway (or any member of his immediate family) and the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) and there is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Bradway and any other persons or entities pursuant to which Mr. Bradway was appointed as a director of the Company.
The full text of the press release announcing Mr. Bradway's appointment is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. (Oct. 13, 2011)  Amgen (NASDAQ:AMGN) announced today that its Board of Directors has appointed Robert A. Bradway to the Company's Board. Bradway, 48, is Amgen's president and chief operating officer. The addition of Bradway brings the number of Amgen board members to 13.
Bradway joined Amgen in 2006 as vice president, Operations Strategy and served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining Amgen, he was a managing director at Morgan Stanley in London where he had responsibility for the firm's banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe. Bradway previously held positions of increasing responsibility at Morgan Stanley since 1985 with a focus on healthcare. Bradway currently serves on the Board of Directors of Norfolk Southern Corporation.
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops, manufactures and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe, effective medicines from lab to manufacturing plant to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, bone disease and other serious illnesses. With a deep and broad pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and vital medicines, visit . Follow us on .
www.amgen.com
www.twitter.com/amgen
CONTACT: Amgen, Thousand Oaks
Christine Regan, 805-447-5476 (media)
Arvind Sood, 805-447-1060 (investors)


