FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20120427181218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 24, 2012, Amgen Inc. (the "Company"), through its wholly-owned subsidiary organized and existing under the laws of the Republic of Turkey, entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") with certain shareholders (the "MN Sellers") of Mustafa Nevzat la Sanayii Anonim irketi, a joint stock company organized and existing under the laws of the Republic of Turkey ("Mustafa Nevzat") and each of the shareholders (the "Sihhat Sellers") of Sihhat Daitim Pazarlama A., a joint stock company organized and existing under the laws of the Republic of Turkey ("Sihhat"). The MN Sellers collectively hold approximately 93.1 percent of the issued share capital of Mustafa Nevzat and Sihhat holds approximately 2.5 percent of the issued share capital of Mustafa Nevzat.
Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company will acquire approximately 95.6 percent of the issued share capital of Mustafa Nevzat by acquiring all of the shares of Mustafa Nevzat held by the MN Sellers and all of issued share capital of Sihhat from the Sihhat Sellers for an aggregate purchase price that values Mustafa Nevzat at approximately US $700 million, subject to adjustment as set forth in the Share Purchase Agreement (the "Transaction"). The Share Purchase Agreement also permits the remaining minority shareholders of Mustafa Nevzat to "opt-in" to the Share Purchase Agreement and to sell their shares to the Company on the terms and conditions stated therein on or before consummation of the Transaction.
The Share Purchase Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including warranties, covenants and termination rights. Consummation of the Transaction is expected to occur following the satisfaction of various customary closing conditions, including, among other things, receipt of approval from the Turkish Competition Authority.
The foregoing description of the Share Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Share Purchase Agreement, a copy of which is attached to this report as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. The Company issued a press release on April 25, 2012 announcing the execution of the Share Purchase Agreement. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company noted that its 2012 financial guidance provided on April 24, 2012 does not take into account the Transaction.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This share purchase agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of the 24th day of April 2012 between:
Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Now, therefore, it is agreed as follows:
 
 
Capitalized terms in this Agreement shall, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, have the meanings given to them in Part 1 of SCHEDULE 2.
 
This Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with the general rules set out in Part 2 of SCHEDULE 2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At Completion and in accordance with Paragraph 5 of SCHEDULE 5, or if that is not reasonably practicable, within seven Business Days of the Completion Date, the Buyer shall procure that MN pays the Shareholder Loan 1 Debt outstanding as at Completion as shall have been notified
 
to the Buyer pursuant to Clauses 3.1(b)(ii) and (iii). Payment by MN or by the Buyer on behalf of MN of the amounts of the Shareholder Loan 1 Debt to the Sellers' Designated Accounts shall constitute full and final discharge by MN of its obligations under Shareholder Loan 1 and, accordingly, the Sellers shall deliver to the Buyer upon receipt thereof the receipt contemplated by Paragraph 3.8 of SCHEDULE 5. Until Completion, the Sellers shall provide all information, assistance and explanations as the Buyer or any person acting on the Buyer's behalf may reasonably request from time to time in relation to the amount of the Shareholder Loan 1 Debt.
 
At Completion and in accordance with Paragraph 5 of SCHEDULE 5, or if that is not reasonably practicable, within seven Business Days of the Completion Date, the Buyer shall procure that MN pays the Employee Bonus Payments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At Completion, each of the Sellers and the Buyer will undertake those actions designated to be undertaken by them, and in the order set out, in SCHEDULE 5, and the fulfilment of each action set out in SCHEDULE 5 shall be a condition precedent for the fulfilment of each subsequent action set out therein (save in respect of (i) the payment of the Shareholder Loan 1 Debt and the Employee Bonus Payments where the provisions of Clauses 2.2 and 2.3 shall apply and (ii) the actions set forth in Paragraph 8 of SCHEDULE 5).
 
The Parties acknowledge that all of the actions intended to occur pursuant to SCHEDULE 5 are interdependent on the occurrence of all of the other actions intended to occur pursuant to SCHEDULE 5 (save in respect of (i) the payment of the Shareholder Loan 1 Debt and the Employee Bonus Payments where the provisions of Clauses 2.2 and 2.3 shall apply and (ii) the actions set forth in Paragraph 8 of SCHEDULE 5). Without prejudice to Clauses 5.2 and 5.4, in the event that any action required to occur pursuant to SCHEDULE 5 fails to occur and is not waived by the relevant Party, then none of them shall be deemed to have occurred and Clause 5.4 below shall apply.
 
If any of the provisions of SCHEDULE 5 are not complied with at or prior to Completion by any of the Sellers and/or the Buyer, respectively, then any Party that failed to comply shall use all reasonable endeavours to procure the performance of its obligations in SCHEDULE 5, and Completion shall take place, and the Completion Date shall be, on the first date within the next five Business Days on which the Parties have complied with such provisions. The Completion Date may only be postponed beyond such five Business Day period with the written agreement of the Buyer and the Sellers' Representative. In the event that Completion does not occur within such five Business Day period (or such longer period for Completion as the Buyer and the Sellers' Representative may agree) and the Buyer and the Sellers' Representative do not agree to an extension of said period, then:
 
 
 
The receipt by the Sellers at Completion of the respective amounts represented by blocked cheques comprising the MN Purchase Price (less the amount of the MN Brokerage Fee) and the S1hhat Purchase Price (less the amount of the S1hhat Brokerage Fee) and payment by the Buyer, by MN, or by the Buyer on behalf of MN (as applicable) of the MN Brokerage Fee, the S1hhat Brokerage Fee and the Employee Bonus Payments in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall, in each case, constitute full and final discharge of the relevant obligations of the Buyer under Clause 3.2 and the Buyer shall not be concerned with the application of such sums.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A reference in the Warranties or in Clause 8.3(g) to the belief, knowledge, information or awareness of any of the MN Sellers or S1hhat Sellers shall mean the actual knowledge of the Key Managers.
 
The Warranties are given subject to the provisions of Clause 8.
 
If the Buyer acquires any additional shares in the capital of MN on the Completion Date and simultaneously with its acquisition of the Sale Shares hereunder, (i) Nepa G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.. shall be deemed to have given Title Warranties with respect to such additional shares on terms equivalent to those given by the Sellers mutatis mutandis with respect to the Sale Shares and (ii) any person selling such additional shares shall be deemed to be a "Seller" for the definition of "Leakage". For the avoidance of doubt, any such additional shares shall be deemed to form part of the Seller Group of Nepa G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.. for the purposes of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no warranties, assurances, covenants or undertakings (express, implied, statutory or otherwise) by or on behalf of any Party or any of its Affiliates other than those expressly set forth in this Agreement. All warranties implied by law are hereby waived.
 
Save as set out in this Agreement, there are no representations or warranties relating to the accuracy, completeness or materiality of any information, data or other materials (written or oral, and including, for the avoidance of doubt, the Vendor Information) now, heretofore or hereafter furnished to the Buyer or any of its Affiliates, officers, employees, agents, representatives or advisors by or on behalf of the Sellers or any of their Affiliates.
 
The liability of the Sellers (including the Corporate Warrantors) under this Agreement shall be subject to, and limited by, the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Save where expressly indicated, no limitation of liability contained in the other provisions of this Clause 8.3 shall apply in respect of any claim pursuant to Clause 3.3 in connection with any Leakage, pursuant to Clause 8.5 in connection with the FDA Indemnity, or for any breach of the Title Warranties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(the "").
Liability Cap
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Buyer nor any member of the Target Group shall be required to commence legal proceedings against any third party under this Clause 8.3(v) where: (i) to do so would, in the Buyer's reasonable opinion, be unduly onerous or materially prejudice the interests of the Buyer or any of its Affiliates (including the Target Group); or (ii) the Buyer or any member of the Target Group has validly assigned all of its rights against such insurer or third party in relation to such claim to the Corporate Warrantors. If any Corporate Warrantor has paid to the Buyer any amount in respect of a Relevant Claim, and the Buyer or any member of the Target Group subsequently receives or recovers from a third party (including an insurer) a sum that is directly referable to such Relevant Claim, the Buyer shall forthwith procure that an amount equal to the lesser of: (x) the amount actually paid by the Corporate Warrantors to the Buyer in respect of such claim under this Agreement; and (y) the amount so received or recovered by the Buyer or any member of the Target Group net of all reasonable costs and expenses of recovery from the third party or the corresponding insurance claim, is paid to the relevant Corporate Warrantors on a basis based on the amounts paid by each relevant Corporate Warrantors to the Buyer in respect of such Relevant Claim under this Agreement.
pro rata
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the maximum extent permitted by law, each payment (if any) made to or for the benefit of the Buyer or a member of the Target Group by the Sellers (or ) in respect of any claim under this Agreement (including in respect of any Leakage) shall be deemed to be a reduction or increase (as applicable) of the portion of the Purchase Price received by such Seller(s).
vice versa
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Party will (and each Party will procure that its Affiliates do not) issue or cause the publication of any press release or other public announcement with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby without the prior consent of the Sellers' Representative (on behalf of the Sellers) and the Buyer, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however, that nothing herein will prohibit any Party (or its Affiliates) from issuing or causing publication of any such press release or public announcement to the extent such Party determines (acting reasonably) such action to be required by applicable law or the rules of any national stock exchange applicable to it or its Affiliates, in which event the Party making such determination (to the extent it is able) will use reasonable endeavours to allow the other Parties (provided that if the Buyer is the Party making such determination, it shall only be required to use reasonable endeavours to allow the Sellers' Representative) reasonable time to comment on such press release or public announcement in advance of its issuance. The Buyer and the Sellers' Representative shall cooperate reasonably to prepare mutually acceptable press releases to be issued upon the execution of this Agreement and upon Completion.
 
 
Each Party agrees that it shall not make any claims or demands against any current or past director, officer, employee or financial adviser of any other Party, S1hhat or of MN (or an affiliate of the Buyer), in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including any claims or demands in connection with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of maintaining the value of MN and S1hhat, from the Signing Date until the Completion Date, except as specifically contemplated by the Business Plan or by the terms of this Agreement or with the prior written consent of the Buyer (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed and shall be deemed to be given if not provided or rejected within the earlier of (i) 10 days of receipt of a written notice requesting consent and (ii) three Business Days before the expiry of any statutory notice period for responding, as notified to the Buyer by the Sellers):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the Interim Period, each Seller shall not take, and shall use its reasonable endeavours to procure that each of MN and S1hhat refrains from taking, any action to, directly or indirectly, encourage, initiate or engage in any discussions or negotiations with, or provide any information to, any person (other than the Buyer and/or its Affiliates and other than the shareholders of MN with respect to the shares in MN other than the Sale Shares) concerning:
 
 
 
 
 
On or prior to Completion, pursuant to documents in the agreed terms, the Sellers shall terminate or cause to be terminated, at no cost to MN and with no further obligations in respect thereof, all Terminated Related Party Agreements. After Completion, the Buyer shall procure that the Shareholder Lease Agreements remain in full force and effect on the same terms as those currently set forth therein, provided that the Buyer shall be under no obligation to renew or extend the Shareholder Lease Agreements beyond their present term. The Shareholder Lease Agreements shall remain valid in accordance with their terms until the earlier of (a) expiry of the lease terms provided thereunder, or (b) execution of such new lease agreements as may be agreed between the Buyer and the relevant lessor thereto. The survival of the Shareholder Lease Agreements are for assisting the Buyer in the transition of the business of MN and the Sellers do not undertake to extend the lease terms or extend the lease terms with the same terms and conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sellers' Representative shall provide to the Buyer's Representative within 10 Business Days of Completion an allocation schedule with respect to the Employee Bonus Payments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From and after Completion, the Buyer shall cause MN and S1hhat to maintain copies of all books and records relating to the business, operations and activities of MN and S1hhat relating to the period of time prior to Completion (including all contracts, agreements, ledgers, records of corporate proceedings, Tax records, financial statements, documents of title to tangible property, inventory and sales records, and personnel records) in the ordinary course and consistent with past practice, and shall prevent MN and S1hhat from destroying any such books or records relating to the period of time prior to Completion for a period of ten years after Completion. During that period, the Buyer shall, upon the reasonable written request of any Seller, cause MN and S1hhat to: (a) grant to such Seller and its advisors or representatives reasonable access, cooperation and staff assistance at all reasonable times, and, upon reasonable notice, access to all of such books and records relating to the period of time prior to Completion or, solely to the extent contemplated in Clauses 8.3 and 8.5, after Completion; (b) afford such Seller and its representatives the right, at its expense, to take extracts therefrom and to make copies thereof; and (c) have access to the employees of MN and S1hhat, all to the extent reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preparation of Tax Returns, the handling of Tax audits, disputes and litigation, financial reporting, and accounting affairs of that Seller and any information obtained shall be treated as confidential.
 
The Buyer shall procure that an extraordinary general assembly meeting of MN (and each class of shareholder of MN, if applicable) and S1hhat is held within 40 days of the Completion Date in accordance with Paragraph 8 of SCHEDULE 5.
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Parties may only terminate this Agreement as provided below:
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary (including, without limitation, any reference to cure periods), if Completion has not occurred on or prior to the Long-Stop Date then this Agreement shall terminate with immediate effect.
 
If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Clause 12.1 or terminates pursuant to Clause 12.2 prior to Completion, then all rights and obligations of the Parties hereunder shall terminate without any liability of any Party to any other Party (except for any liability of any Party then or previously in breach); provided, however, that notwithstanding termination of this Agreement, the Continuing Clauses shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or any representative nominated by brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and notified to the Buyer in the manner set forth herein.
Any Party may send any notice, request, demand, claim or other communication hereunder to the recipient Party at the address set forth above by mail, personal delivery, expedited or overnight courier, messenger service or telecopy but no such notice, request, demand, claim or other communication shall be deemed to have been duly given unless and until it is actually received by the recipient Party and provided that notices or
 
communications consisting of notices of default or termination shall be sufficiently given only if delivered via a Turkish notary or by registered mail, return receipt requested. Any Party may change the address to which notices, requests, demands, claims and other communications hereunder are to be delivered by giving the other Party notice in the manner herein set forth.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Party shall, from time to time now or at any time in the future, and at its own cost and expense, promptly do or procure the carrying out of such acts and/or execute or procure the execution of all such documents as may be reasonably necessary for giving full effect to this Agreement. To the extent that any of the rights and obligations or Completion procedures set forth in SCHEDULE 5 are affected by the New TCC, the Parties agree to cooperate in good faith to modify this Agreement to incorporate such rights and obligations that are closest to those
 
affected as permissible under the New TCC or to adopt any alternative procedures that have the same effect.
 
The Buyer, by written notice to the Sellers' Representative, may agree to: (a) extend the time for performance of any of the obligations or other actions of any of the Sellers under this Agreement; (b) waive any inaccuracies in the warranties of any of the Sellers contained in this Agreement; or (c) waive performance of any of the obligations of the Sellers under this Agreement.
The Sellers' Representative on behalf of all or any of the Sellers, by written notice to the Buyer, may agree to: (a) extend the time for performance of any of the obligations or other actions of the Buyer under this Agreement; (b) waive any inaccuracies in the warranties of the Buyer contained in this Agreement; (c) waive compliance with any of the Buyer's conditions precedent contained in this Agreement; or (d) waive performance of any of the obligations of the Buyer under this Agreement.
Except as provided in the preceding sentences, no action taken, or failure or delay to take any action, pursuant to this Agreement will be deemed to constitute a waiver of compliance with any warranties, conditions or covenants contained in this Agreement and will not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach, whether of a similar or dissimilar nature.
 
 
 
This Agreement (including the documents delivered in connection herewith or contemplated hereby) constitutes the entire agreement among the Parties and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the Parties, written or oral, to the extent they related in any way to the subject matter hereof (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the Vendor Information to the extent content overlaps).
 
Save where otherwise expressly contemplated in this Agreement, this Agreement may be amended or supplemented at any time only by a written agreement signed by duly authorized representatives of each of the Parties.
 
This Agreement shall not confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be unenforceable for any reason, every other provision of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties shall thereupon negotiate in good faith in order to agree to the terms of a mutually satisfactory provision, achieving as nearly as possible the same commercial effect, to be substituted for the provisions so found to be unenforceable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, collectively, the audited financial statements (balance sheet, statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows) for MN, prepared in accordance with IFRS, for the accounting reference period ending on the Accounts Date and for the previous accounting reference period, together with, in each case, the auditors' and directors' reports and the notes to the audited financial statements, which are appended to the Disclosure Letter.
Accounts
"" means 31 December 2011.
Accounts Date
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 3.2(a).
Acquisition Funds
"" (whether capitalized or not) shall mean when used with respect to a person,
Affiliate
 
 
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.3(l).
Aggregate Basket Amount
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 3.2(b).
Aggregate Payments
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
Agreement
"" means Ak Kimya thalat hracat ve Sanayi A.., a joint stock company organized and existing under the laws of Turkey, having its registered office at Saati Bay1r1, Rt Bey Sok. Pak  Merkezi No. 5 Gayrettepe / ili, Istanbul and registered with the Istanbul Trade Registry under registration number 190582.
Ak Kimya
"" means, collectively, all the agreements executed by and between Ak Kimya and MN, including those agreements set out in Part 1 of SCHEDULE 8.
Ak Kimya Agreements
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.5(d)(iii).
Alternate Capital Expenditure Cost
"has the meaning specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
Amgen Worldwide"
"" means, collectively, the MN Brokerage Fee and the S1hhat Brokerage Fee.
Brokerage Fees
"" means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which commercial banks are open for business in Istanbul, Turkey, Zurich, Switzerland and Los Angeles, United States.
Business Day
 
"" means the business plan and budget for MN for the financial year commencing on 1 January 2012, as uploaded under Folder 2.8 () of the Data Room (as such business plan and budget may be amended from time to time by agreement in writing between the Buyer and the Sellers' Representative).
Business Plan
Financial Projections
"" means the Warranties other than the Title Warranties.
Business Warranties
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
Buyer
"" means Robert C. Sexton or such other representative of the Buyer notified to the Sellers' Representative by the Buyer from time to time.
Buyer's Representative
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.5(d)(ii).
Buyer Capital Expenditure Cost
"" has the meaning specified in Paragraph 1 of SCHEDULE 4.
Buyer Documents
"" means an expenditure in the nature of an investment for the acquisition, betterment or improvement to property, plant, equipment or other intangible assets that is chargeable to the capital asset account and that in most cases is depreciable.
Capital Expenditure
"" means any agreement or arrangement made by or on behalf of MN and by or on behalf of any one or more trade unions, works councils, staff associations or other body representing employees and any agreement or arrangement made by or on behalf of any employers' or trade association and one or more trade unions, works councils, staff associations, association of trade unions or other central body representing employees which applies to MN or to which MN is subject.
Collective Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 14.1(a)(i).
Competing Business
"" means the Turkish Competition Authority ().
Competition Board
Rekabet Kurumu
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 4.1(a).
Competition Condition
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 5.1(a).
Completion
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 5.1(a).
Completion Date
"" means the confidentiality letter dated 21 December 2011 and signed by or on behalf of the Buyer.
Confidentiality Agreement
"" means, collectively, Clauses 1 ( 9.2 (), 9.3 (), 9.5 (), 12 (), 13 (), and 15 () and Schedules 2 (and 7 ().
Continuing Clauses
Definitions and Interpretation),
Press Releases
Directors, Officers and Employees
Confidentiality
Termination
Taxes and Costs
Miscellaneous
Definitions and Interpretation)
Proxy
"" means any individuals whose services are made available to MN for a significant portion of that individual's working time and on a continuous basis pursuant to a services, consulting or similar agreement.
Contractors
"" means, collectively, (a) Mep G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.., (b) Nepa G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.., (c) Sezen G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.. and (d) Pak Holding A..
Corporate Warrantors
"" means the electronic data room maintained by Merrill Datasite under the project name Project Magic, containing documents and written information about MN, including legal, financial, technical and commercial vendor due diligence reports, legal, financial, technical and
Data Room
 
commercial records and documents, questions submitted by the Buyer and answers provided by MN or the Sellers, or any other documents included therein by the Sellers, to which the Buyer was given access for the purposes of conducting a due diligence review of MN prior to the Signing Date, as at 23:59 GMT on 19 April 2012, a hard copy index of which is appended to the Disclosure Letter and an electronic copy (on DVD-ROM) of which shall be provided to the Buyer on the Signing Date, together with a certificate from Merrill Datasite that the DVD-ROM is an accurate and complete copy of the Project Magic data site as at such date and time.
"" means collectively:
Debt
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the letter in the agreed terms dated as at the Signing Date from the Sellers to the Buyer.
Disclosure Letter
"" means certain bonus payments payable by MN to certain employees of MN in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the aggregate amount of which shall have been notified to the Buyer on the Signing Date.
Employee Bonus Payments
"" means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien, option, easement, restriction (), right of first refusal, right of pre-emption, third party right or interest, other encumbrance or security interest of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement (including a title transfer or retention arrangement) having similar effect.
Encumbrance
gayrimenkul mkellefiyeti
" means the United States Food and Drug Administration.
FDA"
"" means any out-of-pocket capital expenditure necessary to execute the Remediation Plan including capital expenditure for machinery and equipment, laboratory fixtures, piping and structural improvements.
FDA Capital Expenditure
"" means any deficiencies identified in the FDA Inspection Findings.
FDA Deficiencies
"" means the Corporate Warrantors' indemnity with respect to the matters set out in Clause 8.5.
FDA Indemnity
" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.5(c).
FDA Indemnity Claim"
" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.5(c).
FDA Indemnity Notice"
"" means the FDA inspection of MN's two principal manufacturing facilities which commenced on 16 April 2012 and is scheduled to complete on 2 May 2012.
FDA Inspection
 
"" means any of the FDA Form 483 (whether issued before or after Completion), the FDA final inspection report or the FDA warning letter (if any), delivered to MN for violations of the United States Food Drug and Cosmetic Act pursuant to the FDA Inspection.
FDA Inspection Findings
"" means the actual and necessary FDA Capital Expenditure required to be made by MN to remedy any FDA Deficiencies as such cost shall be determined pursuant to Clause 8.5.
FDA Losses
"" means any bid, tender, proposal or quotation, whether oral or written, that if accepted or rewarded would result in a Government Contract.
Government Bid
"" means any contract, grant or Government Bid, including contracts between MN and The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey () and excluding contracts for utilities, that is subject to any requirement of a Governmental Authority.
Government Contract
TBTAK
"" means any (i) employee or official of a Governmental Authority or public international organization ( the World Bank), (ii) political party or party official, or (iii) candidate for political office.
Government Official
e.g.,
"" means any national, federal, regional, state, local or other court, administrative agency or commission or other governmental, administrative or regulatory body, authority, agency or instrumentality (, a state-owned or controlled enterprise or government advisor), including any health-related supervisory body in any jurisdiction.
Governmental Authority
e.g.
"" means the International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB.
IFRS
"" means the product of (a) the amount of the MN Purchase Price, the percentage that the Sale Shares represent of all issued shares in MN (expressed as a whole number), (b) 100.
Implied MN Value
divided by
multiplied by
"" means: (a) all patents and patent applications (including all extensions, revisions and reissuances thereof); (b) all trademarks (registered and unregistered), service marks (registered or unregistered), trade dress, logos, trade names (registered and unregistered) and corporate names, together with the goodwill associated therewith, and the rights to apply for any such rights; (c) all copyrights (registered and unregistered), and all applications, registrations and renewals in connection therewith; (d) all trade secrets and confidential or proprietary business information (including research and development, know-how, formulas, manufacturing and production processes and techniques, technical data, databases, computer programs, designs, drawings, specifications, customer and supplier lists, and business and marketing plans); (e) internet domain names and email addresses; (f) all other proprietary intellectual property rights; and (g) the right to sue for past infringement of any of, or the rights under licences in relation to, the foregoing rights.
Intellectual Property
"" means all Intellectual Property used, or required to be used, by MN in, or in connection with, its business.
Intellectual Property Rights
"" means the period from the Signing Date to the Completion Date.
Interim Period
"" means hardware, software, communications networks, telephone switchboards, microprocessors and firmware and other information technology equipment and any other items
IT Systems
 
that connect with any or all of them which in each case are owned or used by MN and are material for the purposes of its business.
"" means Jiangsu Dolphin Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd, a company organized and existing under the laws of China.
Jiangsu
"" means, collectively, the following managers of MN: (i) Mr. M. Levent Selamolu (CEO), (ii) Dr. M. Ferran Dincer (Director, Sales & Marketing), (iii) Mr. Ayhan T. Aslan (Director, International Commercial Operations), (iv) Dr. Semra Bingl (Director, Business Development, R&D), (v) Mr. A. Halit Gndz (Director, Technical Operations), (vi) Mrs. Aysen Topkaya (Manager, HR) and (vii) Mr. Ali A. Akkor (CFO).
Key Managers
"" means:
Leakage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case, except to the extent that any of the above actions are permitted as Permitted Leakage.
"" means the land and premises currently leased by MN, details of which are set out in Part 2 of SCHEDULE 9.
Leasehold Properties
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.3(m).
Liability Cap
"" means 31 December 2011.
Locked Box Date
"" means a rate per annum of 5% (on the basis of a 365 day year).
Locked Box Interest Rate
"" means the date which is four months following the date of this Agreement, or such other date as the Parties may agree in writing.
Long-Stop Date
 
"" means all damages, penalties, fines, liabilities, obligations, losses, costs and expenses (including court costs and attorneys' fees).
Losses
"" means the unaudited management accounts of MN, as at and for the quarter ended 31 March 2012, which is appended to the Disclosure Letter.
Management Accounts
"" means those plants or facilities set out or described in Part 3 of SCHEDULE 9.
Manufacturing Facilities
"" means a material adverse effect on the financial condition, assets, earnings, properties, business, trading or operations of MN, whether immediate or which could reasonably be expected to have the effect of reducing the Normalised EBITDA of MN in the year following Completion by more than ten per cent compared to the Normalised EBITDA of MN for the 12 months prior to the date of this Agreement (calculated in TL), other than as a result of events and circumstances affecting or likely to affect all companies carrying on business in the territory and/or industries in which MN carries on business.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means any contract to which MN is a party currently in force, which:
Material Contract
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" has the meaning specified in Paragraph 5 of SCHEDULE 3.
Material MN Customer
"" has the meaning specified in Paragraph 5 of SCHEDULE 3.
Material MN Supplier
"" has the meaning specified in Recital (A).
MN
"" means the aggregate fees payable by or on behalf of the MN Sellers to Bank of America Merrill Lynch in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the amount of which shall have been notified to the Buyer on the Signing Date.
MN Brokerage Fee
"" means the class of issued share capital in MN designated as "Group A" under its constitutional documents.
MN A Shares
"" means the class of issued share capital in MN designated as "Group B" under its constitutional documents.
MN B Shares
"" means the class of issued share capital in MN designated as "Group C" under its constitutional documents.
MN C Shares
"" means MN Pharmaceuticals GmbH, a company organised and existing under the laws of Germany.
MN Pharmaceuticals
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 3.1(a)(i).
MN Purchase Price
"" has the meaning specified in Recital (C).
MN Sale Shares
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
MN Sellers
"" means each trade or service mark, business or domain name, design or logo or other Intellectual Property right in the name "Mustafa Nevzat" and currently owned by MN, which consist, in aggregate, of all the items set out in SCHEDULE 11.
MN Trademarks
"" means the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 published in the Official Gazette dated 14 February 2011, and numbered 27846 and any related secondary legislation.
New TCC
"" means earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization calculated on the same basis and in accordance with the same accounting principles, practices and methodologies, consistently applied, as in the Accounts.
Normalised EBITDA
"" means the land and premises currently owned by MN, details of which are set out in Part 1 of SCHEDULE 9.
Owned Properties
"" means Pacific Investment Development Company Limited, a company organised and existing under the laws of Hong Kong.
Pacific Investment Development
"" and "" have the meanings specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
Party
Parties
"" means any permit, licence, order, certification, ruling, filing or registration (or any exemption therefrom), from any Governmental Authority.
Permit
"" means the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of the current products identified in the Product Development and License Transfer Agreement executed with Ak Kimya dated 20 April 2010.
Permitted Business
 
"" means, collectively (a) Encumbrances noted on the face of the Accounts, (b) Encumbrances consisting of easements, permits, restrictive covenants, encroachments or other restrictions or limitations on the use of property or irregularities in, or exceptions to, title thereto which, individually or in the aggregate, do not materially detract from the value of, or impair the use of, such property for the purposes of carrying on MN's business and (c) any Encumbrances disclosed in the Disclosure Letter.
Permitted Encumbrances
"" means those payments as set out or described in SCHEDULE 6.
Permitted Leakage
"" means those Products which are planned to be developed and commercialised (or, as may be the case, further developed or commercialised) by MN upon the receipt of necessary Permits or other applicable regulatory approvals as set out or described in SCHEDULE 10.
Pipeline Products
"" means, with respect to any Corporate Warrantor, the percentage equivalent to a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of Sale Shares owned by such Corporate Warrantor's Seller Group at Completion and the denominator of which is the number of Sale Shares owned by all Sellers as at Completion.
Pro Rata Portion
"" means all pharmaceutical and medicinal products (including any active pharmaceutical ingredients for each of the foregoing) which are part of MN's business.
Products
"" means, collectively, the MN Purchase Price and the S1hhat Purchase Price.
Purchase Price
"" means a claim by the Buyer under or pursuant to the provisions of Clause 6.1 in respect of any breach of the Business Warranties.
Relevant Claim
"" means 94.626% or such other percentage of the issued share capital of MN acquired by the Buyer, directly or indirectly, pursuant to this Agreement.
Relevant Percentage
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 8.5(c).
Remediation Plan
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 15.8(c).
Rules
"" has the meaning specified in Recital (C).
Sale Shares
"" means Specially Designated Nationals and persons resident in the countries of Iran, Syria, Cuba, Myanmar (Burma), North Korea and Sudan.
Sanctioned Person
"" means, in respect of (a) Mep G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.., those Sellers listed in rows 3 and 9 of Part 3 of SCHEDULE 1, (b) Nepa G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.., those Sellers listed in rows 1, 2, 7 and 8 of Part 3 of SCHEDULE 1, (c) Sezen G1da ve Kimya San. ve Tic. A.., those Sellers listed in rows 4, 5, 10 and 11 of Part 3 of SCHEDULE 1 and (d) Pak Holding A.., those Sellers listed in rows 6 and 12 through 20 of Part 3 of SCHEDULE 1, and, in respect of each Corporate Warrantors, any other Affiliate of such Corporate Warrantors that is a Seller.
Seller Group
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
Sellers
"" means those accounts into which, collectively, the Purchase Price (less the amount of the Brokerage Fees) and Shareholder Loan 1 Debt will be paid, being those accounts which shall have been notified to the Buyer in accordance with Clause 3.1(b)(iii).
Sellers' Designated Accounts
"" has the meaning specified in Paragraph 1.1 of SCHEDULE 3.
Sellers' Documents
"" means brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and any successor.
Sellers' Representative
 
"" means, collectively (i) the 30 October 2009 dated lease agreement executed by and between Asil G1da ve Kimya Sanayii ve Ticaret A.. and MN for the lease of the Istanbul head office located at Pak  Merkezi Prof. Dr. Blent Tarcan Sokak No: 5, K.8, Gayrettepe/stanbul, with a monthly rent payable of TL 9,150; (ii) the 1 January 2002 dated lease agreement executed by and between Asil G1da ve Kimya Sanayii ve Ticaret A.. and MN for the lease of the Istanbul head office located at Pak  Merkezi Prof. Dr. Blent Tarcan Sokak No: 5, D.1-2-7, Gayrettepe/stanbul, with a monthly rent payable of TL 104,880; and (iii) the 1 December 2011 dated lease agreement executed by and between Nepa G1da ve Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.. and MN for the lease of the premises located at skdar hsaniye Mahallesi, with the plot number of 359 and parcel number of 8, with a monthly rent payable of TL 12,000 plus VAT, in each case which are uploaded under Folder 3.1 () of the Data Room.
Shareholder Lease Agreements
Intra-group Agreements
"" means, collectively, (i) the loan of 4 February 2010 between Nevhiz Pak and MN relating to the principal amount of USD 7,000,000; and (ii) the loan of 1 July 2010 between Nevhiz Pak and MN relating to the principal amount of USD 7,000,000.
Shareholder Loan 1
"" means the amount outstanding from time to time under Shareholder Loan 1, including any and all principal and accrued interest.
Shareholder Loan 1 Debt
"" means the loan of November 2006 between S1hhat and MN relating to the principal amount of TL 2,130,000.
Shareholder Loan 2
"" means, collectively, Shareholder Loan 1 and Shareholder Loan 2, the material terms of which are as set out in the Disclosure Letter.
Shareholder Loans
"" has the meaning specified in Recital (B).
S1hhat
"" means the aggregate fees payable by or on behalf of the S1hhat Sellers to Bank of America Merrill Lynch in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the amount of which shall have been notified to the Buyer on the Signing Date.
S1hhat Brokerage Fee
"" means each of S1hhat, MN Pharmaceuticals, Pacific Investment Development and Jiangsu.
S1hhat Group
"" has the meaning specified in Clause 3.1(a)(ii).
S1hhat Purchase Price
"" has the meaning specified in Recital (C).
S1hhat Sale Shares
"" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this Agreement.
S1hhat Sellers
"" means, collectively, the financial statements (balance sheet and income statement) for S1hhat, prepared in accordance with the Turkish Uniform Chart of Accounts and the Turkish Commercial Code, as at and for the year ended (and including) 31 December 2011, which are appended to the Disclosure Letter.
S1hhat Statutory Accounts
"" means the date of this Agreement.
Signing Date
"" means those persons set forth on the specially designated nationals list issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
Specially Designated Nationals
"" means, collectively, the financial statements (balance sheet and income statement) for MN, prepared in accordance with the Turkish Uniform Chart of Accounts and the
Statutory Accounts
 
Turkish Commercial Code, as at and for the financial year ended (and including) 31 December 2011, which are appended to the Disclosure Letter.
"" means (i) all agreements between any member of the Target Group on one hand and the Sellers and/or any of their respective Affiliates on the other hand which were entered into in the ordinary course of business on an arm's length basis, and (ii) the Shareholder Loans and the Shareholder Lease Agreements, and which consist, in aggregate, of all the agreements set out in Part 2 of SCHEDULE 8.
Surviving Related Party Agreements
"" means MN and the S1hhat Group.
Target Group
"" or "" means and includes any and all national, regional, local or other direct and indirect taxes, assessments, fees, levies, withholdings, duties, penalties and other charges imposed by any Taxation Authority and whether of the Republic of Turkey or elsewhere and irrespective of the person against whom the same are directly or primarily chargeable, including income (whether actual or deemed), gross receipts, net proceeds, alternative or minimum, profits, gains, ad valorem, value added, turnover, sales, use, special consumption, property, personal property, stamp, leasing, lease, user, excise, franchise, transfer, notarisation, registration, documentary, licence, withholding, securing, gift, health insurance, social security, payroll, employment, unemployment, fuel, excess profits, occupational severance, estimated and other taxes, and shall include any interest, fines, penalties, surcharges, costs or additional amounts payable in connection with the above.
Tax
Taxation
"" means any information, notices, accounts, statements, reports, computations, declarations and returns which are required to be made and submitted to any Taxation Authority.
Tax Returns
"" means the warranties set forth in Part 1, Paragraph 16 of SCHEDULE 3 ().
Tax Warranties
Taxation
"" means any Governmental Authority or other authority whatsoever exercising a fiscal, revenue, customs or excise function in any jurisdiction.
Taxation Authority
"" means all agreements between any member of the Target Group on one hand and the Sellers and/or any of their respective Affiliates on the other hand which are not Surviving Related Party Agreements, and which consist as of the Signing Date of all the agreements set out in Part 1 of SCHEDULE 8 and such other similar agreements entered into prior to Completion.
Terminated Related Party Agreements
"" has the meaning set forth in Clause 8.3(w).
Third Party Claim
"" means the Warranties set forth in Part 1 Paragraphs 1, 2.1 and 3.2 and Part 2 Paragraphs 22.1, 23.2, 23.3 and 23.5 of SCHEDULE 3.
Title Warranties
"" means the uniform chart of accounts applied in Turkey in accordance with the Tax Procedural Law No. 213, published in the Official Gazette dated 4 January 1961 and numbered 10703 - 10705213.
Turkish GAAP
"" has the meaning set forth in Clause 8.3(g).
Updated Disclosure Letter
"" means, collectively, the contents of the Data Room, and the Locked Box Memorandum provided to the Buyer on 9 March 2012.
Vendor Information
"" means the warranties set forth in SCHEDULE 3.
Warranties
 
 
 
 
 
 
and, for these purposes (and for purposes of the definition of "Affiliate" and other instances of use of the word "" in this Agreement), a person shall be treated as being controlled by another if that other person is able to control alone or pursuant to an agreement with other shareholders, a majority of the voting rights in such person or direct its affairs and/or control the composition of a majority of its board of directors or equivalent body;
control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PART 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
So far as the MN Sellers are aware or should have been aware:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since the Accounts Date:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means all or any of the following media (alone or in combination): air (including the air within buildings and the air within other natural or man-made structures whether above or below ground); water (including water under or within land or in drains or sewers); soil; and land;
Environment
"" means any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction in Turkey to determine any matter arising under Environmental Law and/or relating to the Environment;
Environmental Authority
"" means all applicable laws of Turkey whose purpose is to protect, or prevent pollution of, the Environment or to regulate emissions, discharges, or releases of Hazardous Substances into the Environment, or to regulate the use, treatment, storage, burial, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Substances; and
Environmental Law
"" means any wastes, pollutants, contaminants and any other natural or artificial substance (whether in the form of a solid, liquid, gas or vapour) which are capable of causing harm or damage to human health, other life or the Environment.
Hazardous Substances
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At Completion, the following actions shall occur in the order as defined below and the fulfilment of each action listed below shall be a condition precedent for the fulfilment of each subsequent action unless expressly stated otherwise:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Seller acknowledges that the 104 pages of this Agreement, together with all of its Schedules, Exhibits and Appendices, the Disclosure Letter and any side letters related to or arising under this Agreement (the "
Entire Agreement
") initialed by brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and Robert C. Sexton (or his designee) represent the true and correct pages of the Entire Agreement as signed by each of them.
the parties hereto have themselves or, as the case may be, by their duly authorized representatives or attorneys executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
Each Seller acknowledges that the 104 pages of this Agreement, together with all of its Schedules, Exhibits and Appendices, the Disclosure Letter and any side letters related to or arising under this Agreement (the "
Entire Agreement
") initialed by brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and Robert C. Sexton (or his designee) represent the true and correct pages of the Entire Agreement as signed by each of them.
 
Each Seller acknowledges that the 104 pages of this Agreement, together with all of its Schedules, Exhibits and Appendices, the Disclosure Letter and any side letters related to or arising under this Agreement (the "
Entire Agreement
") initialed by brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and Robert C. Sexton (or his designee) represent the true and correct pages of the Entire Agreement as signed by each of them.
 
Each Seller acknowledges that the 104 pages of this Agreement, together with all of its Schedules, Exhibits and Appendices, the Disclosure Letter and any side letters related to or arising under this Agreement (the "
Entire Agreement
") initialed by brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and Robert C. Sexton (or his designee) represent the true and correct pages of the Entire Agreement as signed by each of them.
 
Each Seller acknowledges that the 104 pages of this Agreement, together with all of its Schedules, Exhibits and Appendices, the Disclosure Letter and any side letters related to or arising under this Agreement (the "
Entire Agreement
") initialed by brahim Mustafa skender Pisak and Robert C. Sexton (or his designee) represent the true and correct pages of the Entire Agreement as signed by each of them.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. and ISTANBUL (April 25, 2012) - Amgen (NASDAQ:AMGN), the world's largest biotechnology company, and Mustafa Nevzat Pharmaceuticals (MN) today announced an agreement under which Amgen will acquire 95.6 percent of shares in MN, a privately held Turkish pharmaceutical company, for an amount that values MN at US $700 million. The all-cash transaction will significantly expand Amgen's presence in Turkey and the surrounding region, which are large, fast-growing, priority markets for Amgen.
"Amgen is dedicated to making our innovative medicines available to patients in major markets around the world," said Robert A. Bradway, president and chief operating officer at Amgen. "Together with MN's staff and management team, we plan to grow our business with high quality and innovative medicines in Turkey and the surrounding region."
With a heritage of nearly 90 years, MN is the leading supplier of pharmaceuticals to the hospital sector and a major supplier of injectable medicines in Turkey. It also has a successful and fast growing export business. MN had revenues of approximately US $200 million in 2011 and has grown on average at double-digit rates in local currency over the past five years.
"This transaction represents an attractive opportunity for MN, its employees and customers," said Levent Selamoglu, general manager and chief executive officer of MN. "The combination of MN and Amgen creates an innovation leader in Turkey with unique capabilities and scope to expand regionally and in other attractive high-growth markets. Amgen's focus and resources will also ensure continued investment in Turkey."
The transaction has been approved by the Board of Directors of each company. Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.
Amgen's focus on Turkey and the surrounding region is part of a broad international expansion strategy for the Company. Amgen established an affiliate in Turkey in 2010 and currently markets two products, with plans to develop its robust pipeline of clinical candidates for the benefit of patients in Turkey, as well as other markets around the world.
AMGEN TO ACQUIRE MUSTAFA NEVZAT, A LEADING, PRIVATELY HELD TURKISH
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY
PAGE 2
 
About Amgen
Amgen discovers, develops, manufactures and delivers innovative human therapeutics. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen was one of the first companies to realize the new science's promise by bringing safe, effective medicines from lab to manufacturing plant to patient. Amgen therapeutics have changed the practice of medicine, helping millions of people around the world in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, bone disease and other serious illnesses. With a deep and broad pipeline of potential new medicines, Amgen remains committed to advancing science to dramatically improve people's lives. To learn more about our pioneering science and vital medicines, visit . Follow us on .
www.amgen.com
www.twitter.com/amgen
Amgen Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and others that can be found in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, and in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this news release and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those we project. The Company's results may be affected by our ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally, clinical and regulatory developments (domestic or foreign) involving current and future products, sales growth of recently launched products, competition from other products (domestic or foreign) and difficulties or delays in manufacturing our products. In addition, sales of our products are affected by reimbursement policies imposed by third-party payers, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, clinical and guideline developments and domestic and international trends toward managed care and health care cost containment as well as U.S. legislation affecting pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement. Government and others' regulations and reimbursement policies may affect the development, usage and pricing of our products. Furthermore, our research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. We, or others, could identify safety, side effects or manufacturing problems with our products after they are on the market. Our business may be impacted by government investigations, litigation and product liability claims. Further, while we routinely obtain patents for our products and technology, the protection offered by our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors. We depend on third parties for a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity for the supply of certain of our current and future products and limits on supply may constrain sales of certain of our current products and product candidate development. In addition, we compete with other companies with respect to some of our marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new products. Discovery or identification of new product candidates cannot be guaranteed and movement from concept to product is uncertain; consequently, there can be no guarantee that any particular product candidate will be successful and become a commercial product. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and component parts for our products are supplied by sole third-party suppliers. Our business performance could affect or limit the ability of our Board of Directors to declare a dividend or our ability to pay a dividend or repurchase our common stock.
AMGEN TO ACQUIRE MUSTAFA NEVZAT, A LEADING, PRIVATELY HELD TURKISH
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY
PAGE 3
 
Contact, Amgen
Mary Klem, 805-447-6979 (US media)
Helen Mills, +41 41 3690 315 (EU media)
Erkan Avcilar, 053046589986 (Turkey media)
Arvind Sood, 805-447-1060 (investors)


