FILE:AMGN/AMGN-8K-20121207162559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Amgen Inc. (the "Company") has pledged $3 million to Reed College to create a professorship in chemical biology in honor of former Amgen Executive Vice President, Research and Development, Roger M. Perlmutter M.D., Ph.D. In December 2011, Dr. Perlmutter announced his plans to retire from the Company effective February 12, 2012. During Dr. Perlmutter's eleven years of service at the Company, Dr. Perlmutter played a vital role in enabling the Company to support the development of new and innovative therapies. Dr. Perlmutter is a Reed College graduate and joined the Reed College board of trustees in 2004 and was elected chairman of its board in April 2010. As one of the world's foremost biotechnology companies, the Company is keenly aware of the value and importance of science education and this pledge is consistent with the Company's longstanding support of such education.
The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Grant Agreement between Amgen Inc. and Reed College dated December 3, 2012, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Amgen Inc., a Delaware corporation with its corporate office in Thousand Oaks, California ("Amgen"), agrees to make the grant (the "Grant") described in this Grant Agreement (this "Agreement") to , a not for profit educational institution ("Recipient"), and Recipient agrees to accept such Grant, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Reed College, 3203 SE Woodstock Blvd., Portland, Oregon, 97213
1. TERM: This Agreement is effective on the date of the signature of an authorized representative of Amgen below (the "Effective Date").
2. GRANT PURPOSES: Recipient will use the Grant for the purposes described on Exhibit A of this Agreement (the "Grant Purposes").
3. GRANT AMOUNT: Amgen will make the Grant in the amount of promptly after this Agreement is fully executed. Recipient understands that Amgen has no obligation to provide other support for the Grant Purposes or any other purpose.
$3,000,000
4. RECIPIENT'S TAX STATUS; ACKNOWLEDGMENT: Recipient represents and warrants to Amgen that it has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a tax-exempt organization described in Section 501(c(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Recipient provided no goods or services to Amgen or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, officers or directors in exchange for the Grant.
)
5. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; COUNTERPARTS; FACSIMILE SIGNATURES; SEVERABILITY; WAIVER: This Agreement, including Exhibit A, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein, sets forth the entire understanding with respect to the subject matter hereof and all other oral and written agreements or correspondence relating to the subject matter hereof are superseded by this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but both of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Copies of signatures sent by facsimile transmission shall be deemed to be originals for purposes of execution and proof of this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under present or future laws, such provisions shall be fully severable, this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision had never comprised a part of this Agreement; and, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The waiver by either party of a breach of or a default under any provision of this Agreement shall not be effective unless in writing and shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach of or default under the same or any other provision of this Agreement, nor shall any delay or omission on the part of either party to exercise or avail itself of any right or remedy that it has or may have hereunder operate as a waiver of any right or remedy.
6. NO LIABILITY: Recipient shall indemnify, defend and hold Amgen, its affiliates, subsidiaries, successors and assigns, officers, directors, employees and agents (the "Indemnified Parties") harmless from and against any and all liability to any third party for or from loss, damage or injury to persons or property in any manner arising out of or incident to the performance of this Grant Agreement, the planning, acquiring, constructing, equipping or use of
the project(s) funded by the Grant or the planning, arranging, implementing, sponsoring or conducting of any program or activity related to the Grant by Amgen. In no case shall any of the Indemnified Parties be liable to Recipient or any third party for consequential damages. The Indemnified Parties shall have no liability for any debts, liabilities, deficits or cost overruns of Recipient. It is expressly understood by the parties that no director, member, officer, employee or other representative of Amgen shall incur any financial responsibility or liability of any kind or nature whatsoever in connection with this Grant Agreement or any subsequent agreement between the parties regarding the subject matter hereof. The parties agree that the liability of Amgen hereunder shall be limited to the payment of the Grant pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Grant Agreement and that Amgen shall have no other duty or obligation to Recipient or any other person. The provisions of this Section 6 shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Grant Agreement.
This Agreement is executed on behalf of Amgen and Recipient as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


