FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20041119165109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.03.    Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
        On November 19, 2004, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), terminated the Rights Agreement between the Company and First National Bank of Boston, N.A., dated as of June 21, 1988, as amended and restated as of June 8, 1995 (the "Rights Agreement") by amending such agreement to accelerate the final expiration date thereof from June 8, 2005 to the close of business on November 19, 2004.
        On November 16, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted the following policy statement effective upon the termination of the Rights Agreement at the close of business on November 19, 2004:
Item 5.03.     Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
        As a consequence of the termination of the Rights Agreement, as described above under Item 3.03, the Company has today filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware effecting the elimination of the Certificate of Designations with respect to the Company's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)     Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
November 19, 2004

Exhibit (4)a
        AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this "Amendment"), dated as of November 19, 2004, between Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a Delaware Corporation (the "Corporation"), and Equiserve Trust Corp. N.A. formerly known as The First National Bank of Boston, a national banking association (the "Rights Agent").
        WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Rights Agent are parties to an Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of June 21, 1988, as amended and restated as of June 8, 1995 (the "Rights Agreement"); and
        WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Corporation and the Rights Agent desire to further amend the Rights Agreement as set forth below;
        NOW, THEREFORE, the Rights Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
        FIRST: Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is amended by deleting clause (i) thereof and replacing it with the following:
        "(ii) the close of business on November 19, 2004 (the "Final Expiration Date"),"
        SECOND: This Amendment shall be effective as of the date hereof.
        THIRD: Except as set forth above, the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
        FOURTH: This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, implied or invalidated.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit (4)b
                The undersigned, Timothy C. Everett, does hereby certify that:
    1.        The undersigned is the duly elected and acting Vice President and Secretary of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation").
    2.        Pursuant to authority conferred by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board"), the Board on November 16, 2004 adopted the following resolutions which relate to the previously-issued dividend of one right (each, a "Right" and collectively, the "Rights") in respect of each share of Common Stock, par value $1.25 per share, of the Corporation to purchase shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Corporation ("Series A Preferred Stock") pursuant to an Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1988, as amended and restated on June 8, 1995 and as further amended on November 19, 2004 (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Corporation and First National Bank of Boston, a national banking association, each such Right representing the right to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Rights Agreement:
    3.        I further declare under penalty of perjury that the matters set forth in this Certificate are true and correct of my own knowledge.
        This Certificate was executed in Dallas, Texas on November 19, 2004.



