FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20050124085108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, dated January 24, 2005, reporting the Corporation's results of operations for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2004.
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EARNINGS SUMMARY:
There were no unusual items in 2004.
The following table presents the reconciliation of a non-GAAP financial measure to reported GAAP net income.
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2003:
Unaudited
Note (Three Months):
N.M.Not meaningful Unaudited
        
Notes (Twelve Months):
3.     OTHER INFORMATION:
N.M.-Not meaningful Unaudited
Supplemental Financial Information:
Unaudited
N.M.-Not meaningful Unaudited
Description of Business Segments
The Corporation is organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable global business segments: Personal Care; Consumer Tissue; and Business-to-Business. Each reportable segment is headed by an executive officer who reports to the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for the development and execution of global strategies to drive growth and profitability of the Corporation's worldwide Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and Business-to-Business operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management, and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses.
The principal sources of revenue in each of our global business segments are described below.
The Personal Care segment manufactures and markets disposable diapers, training and youth pants and swimpants; feminine and incontinence care products; baby wipes; and related products. Products in this segment are primarily for household use and are sold under a variety of brand names, including Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, Kotex, Lightdays, Depend, Poise and other brand names.
The Consumer Tissue segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels and napkins for household use; and related products. Products in this segment are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Hakle, Page and other brand names.
The Business-to-Business segment manufactures and markets disposable, single-use, health and hygiene products to the away-from-home marketplace. These products include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins, wipers, surgical gowns, drapes, infection control products, sterilization wrap, disposable face masks and exam gloves, respiratory products, other disposable medical products and other products. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Kleenex, Scott, Kimwipes, WypAll, Surpass, Safeskin, Technol, Ballard and other brand names.
Unaudited



