FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20061116111954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report: November 15, 2006
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of Kimberly-Clark Corporation elected Mr. James M. Jenness to the Board of Directors, effective February 1, 2007. Mr. Jenness is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Kellogg Company. Mr. Jenness was also appointed to the Management Development and Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, effective February 1, 2007. Mr. Jenness will participate in the Corporation's Outside Director Compensation Plan.
 
A copy of the news release announcing the election of Mr. Jenness to the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Board of Directors is attached hereto as an exhibit (99.1).
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
KIMBERLY-CLARK ELECTS KELLOGG COMPANY CHAIRMAN AND CEO
JAMES M. JENNESS TO ITS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
DALLAS, Nov. 15, 2006  Kimberly-Clark Corporation (NYSE: KMB) today announced that James M. Jenness, chairman and chief executive officer of Kellogg Company, has been elected to its board of directors, effective Feb. 1, 2007.
Mr. Jenness, 60, has been chairman and CEO of Kellogg since 2005. He joined the company from Integrated Merchandising Systems, LLC, a retail promotion and merchandising company, where he served as chief executive officer from 1997 to 2004. Previously, Mr. Jenness served as vice chairman and chief operating officer of Leo Burnett Company, Inc., where he held account management positions of increasing responsibility over the course of a 22-year career with the global advertising agency. Mr. Jenness began his career as a market analyst with International Harvester Company and also served as product manager with Alberto Culver Company.
"We are pleased to have Jim Jenness join our board of directors," said Linda Johnson Rice, chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Kimberly-Clark board of directors and president and chief executive officer of Johnson Publishing Company. "His broad experience in many highly competitive domestic and international businesses, including health, beauty, food and insurance, adds valuable expertise to the board."
Thomas J. Falk, chairman and chief executive officer of Kimberly-Clark, said, "Jim's extensive background in brand management, marketing and communications, combined with his expertise in operations and financial management, will greatly benefit the company as we take K-C to the next level of performance as a premier health and hygiene company."
Mr. Jenness earned a bachelor's degree in marketing and a master's in business administration from DePaul University.
 
- more -
 
- 2 -
 
About Kimberly-Clark
Kimberly-Clark and its well-known global brands are an indispensable part of life for people in more than 150 countries. Every day, 1.3 billion peoplenearly a quarter of the world's populationtrust K-C brands and the solutions they provide to enhance their health, hygiene and well-being. With brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend, Kimberly-Clark holds the No. 1 or No. 2 share position in more than 80 countries. To keep up with the latest K-C news and to learn more about the company's 134-year history of innovation, visit www.kimberly-clark.com.
# # #
 
 



