FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20081114150453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(a) Severance Pay Plan
On November 12, 2008, the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the "Corporation") approved the amended and restated Kimberly-Clark Corporation Severance Pay Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009. This Plan provides certain eligible employees of the Corporation, including executive officers, severance benefits in the event of involuntary separation of service.
A copy of the Severance Pay Plan is attached as Exhibit (10)p to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Executive Severance Plan
On November 13, 2008, the Board approved the amended and restated Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive Severance Plan (the "Amended Plan"), as recommended by the Committee at its meeting on November 12, 2008. The Amended Plan provides reduced severance benefits related to a change in control of the Corporation. In particular, the amounts of salary, bonus and certain other benefits payable to executives with a Tier I agreement (as described in the Amended Plan) have been reduced from three years to two years under the Amended Plan.
Under the terms of their Executive Severance Agreements under the Amended Plan (the "Agreements"), the Corporation's executive officers would be entitled to receive, upon a qualified separation of service related to a change in control, a cash payment in an amount equal to the sum of:
In addition, nonqualified stock options, and certain incentive stock options, will vest and be exercisable within the earlier of five years from the participant's separation from service or the remaining term of the option.
Under the terms of his or her Agreement, in certain circumstances, if an executive officer incurs excise tax due to the application of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the executive officer would be entitled to an additional cash payment so that the participant will be in the same position as if the excise tax were not applicable. The Corporation's executive officers are expected to enter into Agreements that expire on December 31, 2011.
Table of Contents
A copy of the Amended Plan is attached as Exhibit (10)b to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On November 12, 2008, the Board adopted amendments to the Corporation's By-Laws that are summarized below:
The foregoing summary of the adopted amendments to the Corporation's By-Laws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Corporation's By-Laws, as amended November 12, 2008, a copy of which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (3)b attached hereto. The Corporation's amended By-Laws also are available on the Corporation's website at www.kimberly-clark.com.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit (3)b. By-Laws of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, as amended November 12, 2008.
Exhibit (10)b. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated as of November 13, 2008.
Exhibit (10)p. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Severance Pay Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2009.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
Exhibit (3)b. By-Laws of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, as amended November 12, 2008.
Exhibit (10)b. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated as of November 13, 2008.
Exhibit (10)p. Kimberly-Clark Corporation Severance Pay Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2009.

Exhibit (3)b
1. CERTIFICATES
     Every stockholder shall be entitled to have a certificate in such form as the Board shall from time to time approve, signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by him. Any of or all the signatures on the certificate and the corporate seal may be facsimiles. In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue. While the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, there shall be set forth on the face or back of each certificate issued a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof of the corporation and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
2. RECORD OWNERSHIP
     The name and address of the holder of each certificate, the number of shares represented thereby, and the date of issuance thereof shall be recorded in the corporation's books and records. The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share of stock as the holder in fact thereof, and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in any share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by law.
3. TRANSFER
     Transfer of stock shall be made on the books of the corporation only by direction of the person named in the certificate or his attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and only upon the surrender for cancellation of the certificate therefor and a written assignment of the shares evidenced thereby.
4. LOST CERTIFICATES
     Any person claiming a stock certificate in lieu of one lost or destroyed shall give the corporation an affidavit as to his ownership of the certificate and of the facts which go to prove its loss or destruction. He shall also, if required by the Board, give the corporation a bond or other indemnification, in such form as may be approved by the Board, sufficient to indemnify the corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss of the certificate or the issuance of a new certificate.
5. TRANSFER AGENT; REGISTRAR
     The corporation shall maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies, each in charge of a transfer agent designated by the Board, where the shares of stock of the corporation shall be transferable. The corporation shall also maintain one or more registry offices, each in charge of a registrar designated by the Board, where such shares of stock shall be registered. The same entity may be both transfer agent and registrar.
 
 
6. RECORD DATE; CLOSING TRANSFER BOOKS
     So that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action (except as otherwise expressly provided in these By-Laws), the Board may fix a record date which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board and which record date, (1) in the case of the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, unless otherwise required by law, shall not be more than sixty days nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, and (2) in the case of any other action, not more than sixty days before such other action, and only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of and to vote at such meeting, or to receive such dividend or other distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, or to take such other lawful action, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid. If no record date is fixed: (i) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (ii) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
7. ANNUAL
     The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on the third Thursday in April in each year, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, as shall be determined by the Board. The annual meeting shall be held at such place and hour, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be determined by the Board. The day, place and hour of each annual meeting shall be specified in the notice of the annual meeting. In accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Board acting by resolution may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled annual meeting of stockholders.
8. SPECIAL
     Special meetings shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed consistent with the provisions of Article VI of the Certificate of Incorporation. In the event no such place has been fixed, special meetings shall be held at the offices of the corporation located in Dallas County, Texas. In accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Board acting by resolution may postpone and reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting of stockholders.
9. NOTICE
     Written notice (or notice by means of electronic transmission to the extent permitted by law) of every meeting of stockholders, stating the place, day, hour and, for special meetings of stockholders, the purpose or purposes thereof, shall, except when otherwise required by law, be mailed at least ten, but not more than sixty days before such meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat.
10. QUORUM
     The holders of a majority of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of stockholders, except as otherwise required by law. In the event of lack of a quorum, the chairman of the meeting or a majority of the voting power of the shares of capital stock present in person or represented by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum shall be obtained. At any adjourned meeting at which there is a quorum, any business may be transacted which might have been properly transacted at the meeting originally called. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business properly brought before the meeting until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
11. CONDUCT OF MEETINGS; NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS
     (a) The Chief Executive Officer, or in his absence such other officer as may be designated by the Board, shall be the chairman of the meeting at stockholders' meetings. The Secretary of the corporation shall be the secretary at stockholders' meetings but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint a secretary for the meeting. The opening and closing of the polls for matters upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the chairman of the meeting. The Board may, to the extent not prohibited by law, adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations or procedures and to do all acts as, in the judgment of the chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may to the extent not prohibited by law include, without limitation, the following: (1) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (2) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (3) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies (which shall be reasonable in number) or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (4) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (5) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned by the chairman of the meeting. At any adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business which might have been properly transacted at the original meeting.
     (b) At any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, only such nominations of persons for election to the Board and other business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-Laws. To be properly brought before an annual or special meeting, such nominations and other business must (1) be specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board, (2) otherwise properly be brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board or any committee thereof, or (3) otherwise properly be brought before the meeting by a stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this By-Law 11 is delivered to the Secretary, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law 11.
     (c) (1) For business (other than the nomination or election of directors) to be properly requested to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder, such stockholder must deliver written notice of such stockholder's intent to bring the business before the annual meeting of stockholders, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary. In the case of an annual meeting, such notice must be received by the Secretary not less than 75 days nor more than 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 100th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 75th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which Public Announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the Public Announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder notice as described above. "Public Announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service, or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
     (2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this By-Law 11, only such business (other than the nomination or election of directors properly brought in accordance with Section (e) of this By-Law 11) shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting.
     (3) A stockholder's notice to the Secretary required by this By-Law 11 to properly bring business (other than the nomination or election of directors) before an annual meeting shall set forth, (a) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below), if any, (i) the name and address of the stockholder intending to propose such business and any Stockholder Associated Person covered by Section (c) of this By-Law 11; (ii) the class or series and number of shares of stock of the corporation which are held of record or are beneficially owned by such stockholder and by any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the corporation's securities, and a representation that the stockholder, or the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, is a holder of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present such proposal; (iii) any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding has been made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the corporation's securities; (iv) any rights to dividends on the shares of stock of the corporation directly or indirectly owned by such
 
stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of stock of the corporation; (v) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, if any, is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or any derivative position, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or the Stockholder Associated Person's, if any, immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); and (vi) a representation whether the stockholder or the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal; and, (b) as to the business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting; (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the corporation, the language of the proposed amendment); and (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and Stockholder Associated Person, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the proposal pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section (c) shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder with respect to business other than the nomination or election of directors if the stockholder has notified the corporation of his intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. No business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of stockholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law 11. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions hereof and, if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
     (d) For nominations of persons for election to the Board to be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders, such stockholder's notice must be timely. To be timely such notice shall be given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary, and received by the corporation, not less than 75 days nor more than 100 days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 75 days' notice or prior Public Announcement of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of meeting was mailed or such Public Announcement was made, whichever first occurs. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary required by Section (4) of Article VIII of the Certificate of Incorporation and this By-Law 11 for nominations of persons for election to the Board at an annual meeting shall set forth, (1) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, on whose behalf the notice is given (i) the name and address of the stockholder intending to propose such nominations and any Stockholder Associated Person covered by Section (d) of this By-Law 11; (ii) the class or series and number of shares of stock of the corporation which are held of record or are beneficially owned by such stockholder and by any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the corporation's securities, and a representation that the stockholder is a holder of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present such nominations; (iii) any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person and whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding has been made, the effect or intent of which is to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to the corporation's securities; (iv) any rights to dividends on the shares of stock of the corporation directly or indirectly owned by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, if any, that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of stock of the corporation; (v) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, if any, is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or any derivative position, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or Stockholder Associated Person's, if any, immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); (vi) any other information relating to such stockholder and Stockholder Associated Person, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (vii) a representation whether the stockholder or the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to elect the nominee and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nominations; and (2) as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board, (i) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings (whether written or oral) during the past three years,
 
and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and the Stockholder Associated Person, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any Stockholder Associated Person on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; (ii) the name, age, business and residence addresses, and principal occupation or employment of each nominee; (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (iv) all other information relating to such nominee that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (v) such nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that the nomination was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions hereof and, if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
     "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder means (A) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (B) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and (C) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Stockholder Associated Person.
     (e) Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board or any committee thereof or (2) provided that the Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this By-Law is delivered to the Secretary, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law 11. In the event that a special meeting of stockholders is called for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice, containing the information set forth in Section (d) of this By-Law 11, shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 75 days nor more than 100 days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 75 days' notice or prior Public Announcement of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such notice of the date of meeting was mailed or such Public Announcement was made, whichever first occurs. In no event shall the Public Announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this By-Law 11, only such persons who are nominated in accordance with both the procedures set forth in Section (4) of Article VIII of the Certificate of Incorporation and this By-Law 11 shall be eligible to be elected at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law 11. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law 11, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law 11; provided however, that any references in this By-Law 11 to the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this By-Law 11, and compliance with this By-Law 11 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, as may be amended from time to time). Nothing in this By-Law 11 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
12. VOTING
     Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of the stockholders, each holder of shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting shall, as to all matters in respect of which such shares have voting
 
rights, be entitled to one vote in person or by written proxy for each share held of record by him. No vote upon any matter, except the election of directors or the amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation, is required to be by ballot unless demanded by the holders of at least 10% of the voting power of the shares of capital stock represented in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the meeting. All motions to introduce a matter for a vote by the stockholders at a meeting thereof, except for nominations for election as directors recommended by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and approved by the Board, shall be seconded prior to a vote thereon by the stockholders.
     A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder.
     The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocations thereof or changes thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls.
     Except as provided in Section (5) of Article VIII of the Certificate of Incorporation, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this By-Law 12, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director. All elections and questions presented to the stockholders (other than the election of directors) at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall, unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the corporation or its securities, be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of stock of the corporation which are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon.
13. INSPECTORS OF ELECTION
     The Chief Executive Officer shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Chief Executive Officer may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
     The inspectors shall (i) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, (ii) determine the number of shares represented at a meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting, and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors. The inspectors shall determine the validity of and count the proxies and ballots in accordance with applicable law.
14. LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS
     A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at stockholders' meetings (arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder) shall be prepared by the Secretary and filed at least ten days prior to each meeting of stockholders. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the corporation. Such list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of such meeting during the whole time thereof, and subject to the inspection of any stockholder who may be present. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are stockholders entitled to inspect such list or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
 
15. RESIGNATION
     A director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation. Such notice shall be delivered to the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein. Acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective unless otherwise stated in the notice.
     If an incumbent director who is nominated for re-election to the Board does not receive sufficient votes "for" to be elected in accordance with By-Law 12, the incumbent director shall promptly tender his resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board shall act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation, and the Board in making its decision, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers appropriate and relevant. The director who tenders his resignation shall not participate in the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or the decision of the Board with respect to his resignation. If such incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting and until his successor is duly elected, or his earlier resignation or removal. If a director's resignation is accepted by the Board pursuant to this By-Law 15, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section (5) of Article VIII of the Certificate of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board pursuant to the provisions of Section (2) of Article VIII of the Certificate of Incorporation.
16. ANNUAL MEETING
     A meeting of the Board, to be known as the annual Board meeting, shall be held without call or notice immediately after and at the same general place as the annual meeting of the stockholders. The annual Board meeting shall be held for the purpose of organizing the Board, electing officers, and transacting any other business that may properly come before the meeting.
17. REGULAR MEETINGS
     Regular meetings of the Board may be held without call or notice at such place and at such time as shall be fixed by the Board.
18. SPECIAL MEETINGS
     Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chief Executive Officer, and shall be called by the Secretary upon the request in writing of not less than two of the directors then in office. Special meetings of the Board may be held at such place and at such time as shall be designated in the call thereof. Notice of special meetings of the Board shall either be mailed by the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary to each director at least three days before the meeting, or served upon, or sent by electronic transmission by the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary to, each director at least one day before the meeting, but during an emergency as defined in By-Law 20, notice may be given only to such of the directors as it may be feasible to reach at the time and by such means as may be feasible at the time, including publications or private or public electronic means. Unless required by law, the notice need not state the purpose or purposes of the meeting.
19. TELEPHONIC MEETINGS
     Members of the Board or any committee designated by the Board may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
20. QUORUM
     Except during the existence of an emergency and except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws or in the Certificate of Incorporation, one-third of the total number of directors, as fixed pursuant to Section (2) of Article VIII of the Certificate of Incorporation, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. During the existence of an emergency, three directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. To the extent required to constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Board
 
during an emergency, the officers of the corporation who are present shall be deemed, in order of rank and within the same rank in order of seniority, directors for such meeting. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the action of the majority of directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. In the event of lack of a quorum, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting until a quorum shall be obtained. At any such adjourned meeting at which there is a quorum, any business may be transacted which might have been properly transacted at the meeting originally called.
     An "emergency" for the purpose of these By-Laws shall be any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States or on a locality in which the corporation conducts its business or customarily holds meetings of its Board or its stockholders, or during any nuclear or atomic disaster, or during the existence of any catastrophe, or other similar emergency condition, as a result of which a quorum of the Board or a standing committee thereof cannot readily be convened for action.
21. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING
     Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, or by electronic transmission, and such writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee.
22. ORGANIZATION
     The Chairman of the Board, or in his absence the Chief Executive Officer, or in his absence a director chosen by the directors present, shall act as chairman at meetings of the Board. The Secretary of the corporation shall act as secretary at meetings of the Board but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint a secretary for the meeting.
23. COMPENSATION
     The compensation of directors for services as directors and as members of committees of the Board shall be as fixed by the Board from time to time. The compensation, if any, of the directors need not be uniform as between directors and the compensation, if any, of the members of the committees of the Board need not be uniform either as between members of a committee or as between committees. The Board shall provide for reimbursing the directors for expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board or committees thereof.
     Any director may also serve the corporation in any other capacity and receive compensation, including fees and expenses, for such service.
24. INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
     The nomination of an individual to serve as a member of the Board shall be such that immediately after the election of such nominee to the Board a majority of all directors holding office shall, in the determination of the Board, be independent directors.
25. STANDING AND OTHER COMMITTEES
     The directors shall from time to time designate an Audit Committee, a Management Development and Compensation Committee, an Executive Committee and a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, each of which shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board in the direction of the business and affairs of the corporation in respect to the matters and to the extent hereinafter set forth, subject to the power of the Board to assign from time to time to any such committees or to any other committees such powers in respect to specific matters as the Board may deem desirable. These four committees shall be the standing committees of the corporation. The Board may designate such other committees as it from time to time may deem appropriate; the powers of each such committee shall be limited to those specified in the resolution designating the committee. The corporation elects to be governed by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
26. PROCEDURE AND COMMITTEE CHARTERS
     Each committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules, but the presence of a majority shall be necessary to constitute a quorum, unless otherwise provided by these By-Laws. Each committee shall keep
 
minutes of its meetings. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of any committee may be taken without a meeting if all the members consent thereto in writing and such written consent is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee. All action by each committee shall be reported to the Board. The Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees shall each adopt, subject to the approval of the Board, a committee charter that identifies the responsibilities and processes of such committee.
27. AUDIT COMMITTEE
     The Audit Committee shall consist of three or more members. The Board shall select the members of the Audit Committee from among the directors who are not officers or employees of the corporation and shall designate the Chairman of the Committee. The members of the Audit Committee shall meet the independence and experience requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. All Audit Committee members shall be financially literate, and at least one member shall be a financial expert, as defined by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. The Audit Committee shall, with respect to the corporation and the other entities as to which the corporation has power to select and engage auditors, select and engage independent public accountants to audit books, records and accounts, determine the scope of audits to be made by the auditors and establish policy in connection with internal audit programs and the scope thereof, and shall perform such other duties as the Board may from time to time prescribe, including those set forth in the Audit Committee charter.
28. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
     The Management Development and Compensation Committee shall consist of three or more members. The Board shall select the members of the Management Development and Compensation Committee from among the independent directors and shall designate the Chairman of the Committee. The Management Development and Compensation Committee shall constitute the Stock Option Committee provided for under any stock option plan of the corporation. It shall from time to time fix the compensation of employees who are directors of the corporation and, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, the compensation of officers of the corporation who are elected by the Board. The Management Development and Compensation Committee shall perform such other duties as the Board may from time to time prescribe, including those set forth in the Management Development and Compensation Committee charter.
29. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
     The Executive Committee shall consist of three or more members including, by virtue of his office, the Chief Executive Officer. The Board shall select the other members of the Committee from among the directors and shall designate the Chairman thereof.
     The Executive Committee, when the Board is not in session, shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board to direct the business and the affairs of the corporation, including but not limited to the power to declare dividends and to authorize the issuance of stock, except the powers hereinafter in these By-Laws assigned to any other standing committee and except to the extent, if any, that the authority of the Committee may be limited in any respect by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws.
30. NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
     The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall consist of three or more members. The Board shall select the members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee from among the independent directors. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall have the power to: (i) propose and consider suggestions as to candidates for membership on the Board; (ii) periodically recommend to the Board candidates for vacancies on the Board due to resignations or retirements or due to such standards for composition of Board membership as may from time to time legally prevail; (iii) pursuant to By-Law 15 make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject a tendered resignation of an incumbent director who was nominated for re-election and was not re-elected at a meeting of stockholders (and no successor was elected) or whether other action should be taken; (iv) review and recommend to the Board such modifications to the prevailing Board of Directors retirement policy as may be deemed appropriate in light of contemporary standards; (v) propose to the Board on or before March 1 of each year a slate of directors for submission to the stockholders at the annual meeting; (vi) oversee matters of corporate governance, including advising the Board on board organization, membership and function, committee structure and membership, and succession planning for executive management of the corporation; (vii) review and make recommendations to the Board from time to time with respect to the compensation of directors pursuant to By-Law 23; and (viii) such other duties as the Board may from time to time prescribe, including those set forth in the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee charter.
 
31. ALTERNATES; VACANCIES IN COMMITTEES
     The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee. Alternate members shall serve, in the order in which the Board shall determine, when one or more members of the committee shall be absent or disqualified. Alternate members may attend committee meetings as observers, without the right to vote when all members are present; when fewer than all are present, only an alternate member serving in the place of an absent or disqualified member shall have the right to vote. If no alternate is available, the committee member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any absent or disqualified member. All members of all committees (including Chairmen) shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member.
32. DESIGNATION; ELECTION; QUALIFICATION; TERM
     Each year at the annual Board meeting the directors shall elect a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Secretary and a Treasurer. From time to time the Board may also elect or appoint a Vice Chairman of the Board or Vice Chairmen of the Board, a President, such Executive, Senior or other Vice Presidents as it may deem appropriate, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers, including a Controller, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Controllers, as it may deem appropriate. The Chief Executive Officer may appoint any officers of the corporation not required to be elected by the Board, as he may deem appropriate. The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, and any Vice Chairman of the Board must be directors; no other officer need be a director. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. The term of each officer, whenever elected or appointed, shall be until the election or appointment (as the case may be) and qualification of his successor or until his earlier resignation or removal.
33. DUTIES
     The officers shall have such powers and perform such duties as are prescribed in these By-Laws, or, in the case of an officer whose powers and duties are not so prescribed, as may be assigned by the Board or delegated by or through the Chief Executive Officer.
34. RESIGNATION; REMOVAL; VACANCIES
     Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing to the corporation addressed to the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein. Acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective unless otherwise stated in the notice. Any officer may be removed by the Board at any time with or without cause. Any appointed officer may be removed by the Chief Executive Officer at any time with or without cause. A vacancy in any office may be filled by the Board, and a vacancy in any appointed office may be filled by the Chief Executive Officer, for the unexpired portion of the term.
35. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
     The Chief Executive Officer of the corporation shall be elected by the Board. Subject to the Board, he shall be in general and active charge, control and supervision over the management and direction of the business, property and affairs of the corporation. He shall keep the Board fully informed, and shall freely consult it, concerning the business of the corporation in his charge.
     He shall, subject to these By-Laws, have authority to:
     (i) appoint or approve the appointment of employees to various posts and positions in the corporation bearing titles designated or approved by him and to prescribe their authority and duties, which may include the authority to appoint subordinates to various other posts and positions; and
     (ii) remove or approve the removal of employees so appointed; and
     (iii) sign, execute and acknowledge, on behalf of the corporation, all deeds, mortgages, bonds, notes, debentures, stock
 
certificates, contracts, including contracts of guaranty and suretyship, leases, reports and other documents and instruments, except where the signing or execution thereof by some other officer or employee of the corporation shall be expressly authorized and directed by law, or by the Board, or by these By-Laws. Unless otherwise provided by law, or by these By-Laws, or by the Board, he may authorize in a writing filed with the Secretary, any officer, employee, or agent of the corporation to sign, execute and acknowledge, on behalf of the corporation and in his place and stead, any or all such documents and instruments.
     He shall have such other authority and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer and as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board and these By-Laws.
     In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, or in case of an unfilled vacancy in that office, until such time as the Board shall elect his successor, his duties shall be performed and his powers shall be exercised by other elected officers of the corporation who are also directors (unless none are directors) in the order in which such officers were listed in their respective elections.
36. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND PRESIDENT
     The Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board and the President, each acting alone, shall have authority to sign, execute and acknowledge on behalf of the corporation, all deeds, mortgages, bonds, notes, debentures, stock certificates, contracts, including contracts of guaranty and suretyship, leases, reports and other documents and instruments, except where the signing or execution thereof by some other officer or employee shall be expressly authorized and directed by law, or by the Board, or by the Chief Executive Officer or by these By-Laws. Each shall have such additional powers and perform such additional duties as may be assigned to him by the Board or as may be delegated to him by the Chief Executive Officer.
37. VICE PRESIDENTS
     Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to him by the Board or as may be delegated to him by the Chief Executive Officer.
     Each Executive Vice President shall have authority to sign, execute and acknowledge on behalf of the corporation, all deeds, mortgages, bonds, notes, debentures, contracts, including contracts of guaranty and suretyship, leases, reports and other documents and instruments, except where the signing or execution thereof by some other officer or employee shall be expressly authorized and directed by law, or by the Board, or by the Chief Executive Officer, or by these By-Laws.
38. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
     The Chief Financial Officer shall:
     (i) be the principal financial officer of the corporation and have responsibility for all financial affairs of the corporation; and
     (ii) protect the cash, securities, receivables and other financial resources of the corporation, have responsibility for investment, receipt, custody and disbursement of such resources, and establish policies for granting credit to customers; and
     (iii) maintain the creditworthiness of the corporation; and
     (iv) negotiate and procure capital required by the corporation, including long-term debt and equity, maintain adequate sources for the corporation's short-term financing requirements and maintain banking relationships; and
     (v) administer the accounting policies of the corporation and the internal controls with respect to its financial affairs; and
     (vi) supervise the corporation's books of account, and have access to all records, including the Secretary's records; and
     (vii) in general, have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board or by or through the Chief Executive Officer.
 
39. CONTROLLER
     The Controller shall:
     (i) be the principal accounting officer of the corporation; and
     (ii) have custody and charge of the corporation's books of account, and have access to all records, including the Secretary's and the Treasurer's records, for purpose of obtaining information necessary to verify or complete the records of the Controller's office; and
     (iii) implement the internal controls with respect to the financial affairs of the corporation; and
     (iv) in general, have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board or by or through the Chief Executive Officer.
40. SECRETARY
     The Secretary shall:
     (i) attend and keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders, the Board, and of such committees as the Board may direct; and
     (ii) have custody of the corporate seal and all corporate records (including transfer books and stock ledgers), contracts, papers, instruments, documents and books of the corporation except those required to be kept by other officers under these By-Laws; and
     (iii) sign on behalf of the corporation such documents and instruments as require his signature when approved in accordance with these By-Laws, and to such documents he shall affix the corporate seal when necessary and may do so when he deems it desirable; and
     (iv) see that notices are given and records and reports are properly kept and filed by the corporation as required by these By-Laws or as required by law; and
     (v) in general, have such other powers and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Secretary and as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board or by or through the Chief Executive Officer.
41. TREASURER
     The Treasurer shall:
     (i) receive and sign receipts for all moneys paid to the corporation and shall deposit the same in the name and to the credit of the corporation in authorized banks or depositories; and
     (ii) when necessary or desirable, endorse for collection on behalf of the corporation all checks, drafts, notes and other obligations payable to it; and
     (iii) disburse the funds of the corporation only upon vouchers duly processed and under such rules and regulations as the Board may from time to time adopt; and
     (iv) keep full and accurate accounts of the transactions of his office in books belonging to the corporation; and
     (v) render as the Board may direct an account of the transactions of his office; and
     (vi) in general, have such other powers and perform such other duties as are incident to the office of Treasurer and as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board or by or through the Chief Executive Officer.
 
42. OFFICES
     Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 and the name of the registered agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust Company. The corporation may have such other offices as the Board may from time to time determine. The books of the corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware.
43. SEAL
     The corporation's seal shall be circular in form with "KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION  DELAWARE" around the periphery and "1928  CORPORATE SEAL" within.
44. FISCAL YEAR
     The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on January 1 of each year.
45. ANNUAL REPORT
     At least fifteen days in advance of the annual meeting of stockholders, but not later than three months after the close of the fiscal year, the Board shall publish and submit to the stockholders a consolidated balance sheet of the corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the end of the previous fiscal year and the related consolidated income and cash flow statements of the corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries for the previous fiscal year.
46. INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
     The corporation shall:
     (i) indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is a party or witness, or is threatened to be made a party or witness, or is otherwise involved in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation) by reason of the fact that he, or a person for whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including service with respect to employee benefit plans), against all liability, loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful; and
nolo contendere
     (ii) indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is a party or witness, or is threatened to be made a party or witness, or is otherwise involved in, any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including service with respect to employee benefit plans) against all liability, loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action, suit or proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
 
     The corporation shall be required to indemnify an indemnitee under (i) and (ii) above in connection with an action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee against the corporation or any of its directors, officers or employees only if the initiation of such proceeding (or part thereof) by the indemnitee was authorized by the Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation shall be required to indemnify an indemnitee in connection with a proceeding seeking to enforce rights to indemnification without the authorization of the Board to the extent that such proceeding is successful on the merits. To the extent that a present or former director or officer of the corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in subsections (i) and (ii), or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified, to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
     Any indemnification under subsections (i) and (ii) (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former director or officer is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in subsections (i) and (ii). Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (1) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum; or (2) by a committee of such directors designated by majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum; or (3) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion; or (4) by the stockholders.
     Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by any current or former officer or director in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this By-Law.
     The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the other paragraphs of this By-Law shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses shall be entitled, or may hereafter acquire, under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
     The corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify and advance expenses to any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity (including service with respect to employee benefit plans) shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity.
     The Board may authorize and direct that insurance be purchased and maintained on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including service with respect to employee benefit plans) against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this By-Law.
     Any repeal or modification of the provisions of this By-Law 46 shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of a director or officer of the corporation in respect of any action, suit or proceeding (regardless of when such proceeding is first threatened, commenced or completed) arising out of or relating to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or modification, and the rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses pursuant to this By-Law 46 shall vest at the time any such person becomes a director or officer of the corporation.
     This By-Law 46 shall not limit the right of the corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than directors and officers of the corporation when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
47. RELIANCE ON RECORDS
     Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board, and each officer, shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the corporation and upon such information, opinion, reports or statements presented to the corporation by any of the corporation's officers or employees, or committees of the Board, or by any
 
other person as to matters the director, member or officer reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the corporation.
48. INSPECTION OF BOOKS
     The directors shall determine from time to time whether, and, to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and regulations the accounts and other books and records of the corporation (except such as may by statute be specifically open to inspection) or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and the stockholders' rights in this respect are and shall be restricted and limited accordingly.
49. TRANSACTIONS WITH THE CORPORATION
     No contract or transaction between the corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if:
     (i) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or
     (ii) the material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or
     (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board, a committee thereof, or the stockholders.
     Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
     No other contract or transaction in which a director or officer has an interest and which may, under law, be authorized, approved or ratified by the Board, a committee thereof, or the stockholders shall be void or voidable if authorized, approved or ratified by the body which under law may authorize, approve or ratify such contract or transaction.
50. RATIFICATION
     Any transaction questioned in any stockholders' derivative suit on the ground of lack of authority, defective or irregular execution, adverse interest of director, officer or stockholder, nondisclosure, miscomputation, or the application of improper principles or practices of accounting may be ratified before or after judgment, by the Board or by the stockholders in case less than a quorum of directors is qualified; and, if so ratified, to the fullest extent permitted by law, shall have the same force and effect as if the questioned transaction had been originally duly authorized, and said ratification shall be binding upon the corporation and its stockholders and shall constitute a bar to any claim or execution of any judgment in respect to such questioned transaction.
51. VOTING OF STOCKS
     Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, any one of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice Chairman of the Board, any Executive Vice President or any Senior Vice President shall have full power and authority, on behalf of the corporation, to consent to or approve of any action by, and to attend, act and vote at any meeting of stockholders or equity holders of, any company in which the corporation may hold shares of stock or other interests, and in giving such consent or approval or at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such shares and which as the holder thereof, the corporation might possess and exercise if personally present, and may exercise such power and authority through the execution of proxies or may delegate such power and authority to any other officer, agent or employee of the corporation.
52. NOTICE
     Any notice which the corporation is required to give under these By-Laws may be given personally or it may be given in
 
writing by depositing the notice in the post office or letter box in a postpaid envelope directed to such address as appears on the books of the corporation or by electronic transmission in accordance with applicable law. Such notice, if mailed, shall be deemed to be given at the time of mailing.
53. WAIVER OF NOTICE
     Whenever any notice is required to be given, a waiver thereof in writing (or by electronic transmission in accordance with applicable law) whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
54. DISPENSING WITH NOTICE
     No notice need be given to any person with whom communication is made unlawful by any law of the United States or any rule, regulation, proclamation or executive order issued under any such law.
55. AMENDMENTS
     Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed by the stockholders or by the Board.

Exhibit (10)b
          1. . The purpose of this Plan is to assure the Corporation that it will have the continued dedication of, and the availability of objective advice and counsel from, key executives of the Corporation notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a change of control of the Corporation.
Preamble and Statement of Purpose
     In the event the Corporation receives any proposal from a third person concerning a possible business combination with the Corporation, or acquisition of the Corporation's equity securities, or otherwise considers or pursues a transaction that could lead to a change of control, the Committee believes it imperative that the Corporation and the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") be able to rely upon key executives to continue in their positions and be available for advice, if requested, without concern that those individuals might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks created by such a possibility.
     Should the Corporation receive or consider any such proposal or transaction, in addition to their regular duties, such key executives may be called upon to assist in the assessment of the proposal or transaction, to advise management and the Board as to whether the proposal or transaction would be in the best interest of the Corporation and its stockholders, and to take such other actions as the Board might determine to be appropriate.
          2. . As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
Definitions
     (a) : Executive Severance Agreements in substantially the forms approved by the Committee and attached hereto as Exhibit A (for Tier I Participants) or Exhibit B (for Tier II Participants).
Agreements
     (b) : For any Participant, the Target-level award payable to the Participant for the year in which the Relevant Date occurred (or, if not then established, for the preceding year) or, if higher, for any subsequent year that begins before the Qualified Termination of Employment, under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive Officer Achievement Award Program or the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Management Achievement Award Program, as applicable, or any successor or additional plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, this definition may be amended at the discretion of the
Annual Bonus Amount
 
Committee to allow any amounts payable by the Corporation to comply with the definition of performance based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder).
     (d) : A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have taken place upon the first of the following to occur: (i) a third person, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, acquires shares of the Corporation having 30% or more of the total number of votes that may be cast for the election of directors of the Corporation; or (ii) as the result of any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions (a "Transaction"), the persons who were directors of the Corporation before the Transaction shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any successor to the Corporation.
Change of Control
     (e) : The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (f) : The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Committee
     (g) : Kimberly-Clark Corporation and any successor thereto that assumes this Plan and the Agreements pursuant to Section 13 below.
Corporation
     (h) : Those key executives of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries who are from time to time designated by the Committee as, or who pursuant to criteria established by the Board or the Committee are, eligible to receive an Agreement.
Eligible Executive
     (i) : The Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2001 Equity Participation Plan, the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1999 Restricted Stock Plan, the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1992 Equity Participation Plan, and any successor or
Equity Plans
 
additional plans under which a Participant receives stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation.
     (j) : The excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax.
Excise Tax
     (k) : With respect to any publicly traded equity security, the reported closing price of such security on the relevant date as reported on the composite list used by for reporting stock prices, or, if no such sale shall have been made on that day, on the last preceding day on which there was such a sale; and with respect to any other property, the fair market value thereof as determined by the Committee in good faith.
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
     (l) : Termination by the Participant for "Good Reason" shall mean the Separation from Service during the two year time period following the initial existence (without the Participant's express written consent) of any one of the following conditions:
Good Reason
 
     The Participant must provide notice to the Corporation of the existence of any of the above conditions within a period not to exceed 90 days of the initial existence of the condition, upon the notice of which the Corporation must be provided a period of at least 30 days during which it may remedy the condition and not be required to pay the amount.
     The Participant's right to terminate the Participant's employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Participant's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Participant's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder.
     (m) : For a Tier I Participant, two; and for a Tier II Participant, one.
Multiplier
     (n) : The Value of a Payment, net of all taxes imposed on a Participant with respect thereto under Sections 1 and 4999 of the Code, determined by applying the highest marginal rate under Section 1 of the Code which applied to the Participant's taxable income for the immediately preceding taxable year.
Net After Tax Receipt
     (o) : With respect to a Payment, the present value as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a "parachute payment" under Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Accounting Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment.
Parachute Value
     (p) : An Eligible Executive who is a party to an Agreement which has not been terminated in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
Participant
     (q) : Any payment or distribution in the nature of compensation (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) to or for the benefit of a Participant, whether paid or payable pursuant to this Plan or otherwise.
Payment
     (r) : The separation of Participant's service with the Corporation and/or its Subsidiaries either (i) within the two (2) year period following a Change of Control of the Corporation (A) by the Cor-
Qualified Termination of Employment
 
poration without Cause or, (B) by the Participant with Good Reason, or (ii) by the Corporation without Cause before a Change of Control, if a Change of Control occurs within one year after such Separation from Service and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Participant that such Separation from Service was at the request of a third party that had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control. A transfer of employment for administrative purposes among the Corporation and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed a Qualified Termination of Employment, but if such a transfer results in the occurrence of Good Reason, the affected Participant shall have the right to Separate from Service for Good Reason and such separation shall be a Qualified Termination of Employment.
     (s) : With respect to a Participant, the greatest aggregate amount of Separation Payments which (a) is less than the sum of all Separation Payments and (b) results in aggregate Net After Tax Receipts which are equal to or greater than the Net After Tax Receipts which would result if the Participant were paid the sum of all Separation Payments.
Reduced Amount
     (t) : In the case of a Qualified Termination of Employment as described in clause (ii) of the definition of "Qualified Termination of Employment," the date of such Qualified Termination of Employment and, in all other cases, the date of the Change of Control.
Relevant Date
     (u) : The portion of the payment to or for the benefit of a Participant that does not constitute an "excess parachute payment" for purposes of Section 280G of the Code.
Safe Harbor Amount
     (v) . Termination of employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary. A Separation from Service will be deemed to have occurred if the Participant's services with the Corporation or a Subsidiary is reduced to an annual rate that is 20 percent or less of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three years of employment (or if employed less than three years, such lesser period).
Separation from Service
     (w) : With respect to a Participant, a Payment paid or payable to the Participant pursuant to this Plan or an Agreement (disregarding Section 9 of this Plan).
Separation Payment
     (x) : For a Tier I Participant, the period of two years beginning on the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment; and for a Tier
Severance Period
 
II Participant, the period of one year beginning on the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment.
     (y) : Any domestic or foreign corporation at least twenty percent (20%) of whose shares normally entitled to vote in electing directors is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation or by other Subsidiaries, provided, however, that "at least fifty percent (50%)" shall replace "at least twenty percent (20%)" where there is not a legitimate business criteria for using such lower percentage.
Subsidiary
     (z) : A Participant whose Agreement indicates that he or she is a Tier I Participant.
Tier I Participant
     (aa) : A Participant whose Agreement indicates that he or she is a Tier II Participant.
Tier II Participant
     (bb) : With respect to a Payment, the economic present value of a Payment as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code, as determined by the Accounting Firm using the discount rate required by Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.
Value
          3. . Eligible Executives shall be proffered an Agreement and upon execution and delivery thereof by the Eligible Executive evidencing such Eligible Executive's agreement not to voluntarily leave the employ of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries and to continue to render services during the pendency of any threatened Change of Control of the Corporation, such Eligible Executive shall become a Participant. Each Agreement shall indicate whether the Participant to whom it is proffered will be a Tier I Participant or a Tier II Participant. A Participant shall cease to be a Participant in the Plan upon the termination of the Participant's Agreement in accordance with its terms.
Participation; Agreements
          4. . Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to entitle a Participant to continued employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries and the rights of the Corporation to separate a Participant from service shall continue as fully as though this Plan were not in effect, that any Qualified Termination of Employment shall entitle the Participant to the benefits herein provided. In addition, nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to entitle a Participant under this Plan to any rights, or to payments under this Plan, with respect to any plan in which the Participant was not a participant prior to a Qualified Termination of Employment.
Separation from Service of Participants
provided
     . In the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment of a Participant, a lump sum
Payments Upon Qualified Termination of Employment
 
cash payment or payments shall be made to such Participant as compensation for services rendered, in an amount or amounts (subject to any applicable payroll or other taxes required to be withheld) equal to the sum of the amounts specified in subsections (a) through (i) below, such payments to be made within 10 days following the later of the date of Separation from Service or the date of the Change of Control except to the extent not yet calculable, in which case such portions shall be paid as soon as practicable following the ability to calculate the amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as provided in Sections 9 and 10, all amounts payable under the terms of this plan shall be payable no later than March 15 of the year following the later of the date of Separation from Service or the date of the Change of Control. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5 to the contrary, any amounts which are payable due to amounts the Executive would have been entitled under a deferred compensation plan required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, such amounts shall be payable at the date it would have been payable if the Executive were entitled to this amount under the terms of the deferred compensation plan.
     (a) . A lump sum amount equal to the Multiplier times the sum of (a) the Participant's annual base salary at the rate in effect immediately prior to the Relevant Date or, if higher, immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment and (b) the Annual Bonus Amount;
Salary Plus Incentive Compensation
     (b) . A lump sum amount equal to the payment to which the Participant would have been entitled had all Participation Shares awarded to the Participant under any Equity Plan that were outstanding on the Relevant Date and which had not matured as of the date of Separation from Service and which will not mature as a result of the Separation from Service, matured, such payment to be determined as though such award had matured and its book value at maturity been determined on the last day of the calendar quarter preceding the date of Participant's Separation from Service;
Equity Participation Plan  Participation Shares
     (c) (i) Except with respect to incentive stock options outstanding at the effective date of the Participant's Agreement for which the Option Price is lower than the Fair Market Value of the Stock at such date, all stock options that were granted to the Participant under
Equity Participation Plan  Option Shares
 
any of the Equity Plans, including but not limited to any substitute plans adopted prior to the Relevant Date (or any successor or additional plan), that were outstanding both on the Relevant Date and immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment, shall vest and become exercisable and the Qualified Termination of Employment of the Participant shall be deemed a retirement for purposes of exercising the stock options under the terms of the Equity Plans, and (ii) notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Incentive Stock Options that were outstanding at the effective date of the Participant's Agreement for which the Option Price is lower than the Fair Market Value of the Stock at such date, and which were forfeited upon the Participant's Separation from Service, a lump sum amount equal to the excess of (I) the aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of termination of the shares of common stock of the Corporation or other equity security then subject to such Incentive Stock Options over (II) the aggregate option price for such shares or other equity security;
     (d) . With respect to restricted shares and/or restricted share units granted to the Participant under any of the Equity Plans that were outstanding but not vested on the Relevant Date and which are forfeited as a result of the Participant's Separation from Service, a lump sum amount equal to the Fair Market Value of an equivalent number of shares of common stock of the Corporation (or such other equity security into which the restricted shares and/or restricted share units has been converted) on the date of Separation from Service; in the event the number of restricted shares and/or restricted share units was to be determined by the attainment of performance goals according to a schedule determined by the Committee, the number of shares that shall be considered to vest shall the greater of the target level established or the number of shares which would have vested based on the attainment of the Performance Goal as of the end of the prior year;
Restricted Stock
     (e) . A lump sum amount equal to the payment to which the Participant would have been entitled had all amounts awarded or granted to the Participant, vested or matured, under any stock appreciation right, incentive compensation, and bonus plans, which are adopted after the effective date of the Participant's Agreement and in which the Participant participates immediately prior to the Relevant Date, including but not limited to any substitute
Successor or Additional Stock Appreciation Right, Incentive Compensation, and Bonus Plan
 
plans adopted prior to the Relevant Date (or any successor or additional plan), which had not vested or matured as of the date of Separation from Service and will not vest or mature as a result of the Participant's Separation from Service, such payment to be determined as though such award or grant had vested or matured on the date of termination of the Participant's employment;
     (f) . A lump sum amount equal to any benefits under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees Incentive Investment Plan (or any successor or additional plan) that the Participant has accrued, but that are forfeited as a result of his or her Separation from Service, based upon the value of the Participant's account as of the most recent valuation date before the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment;
Incentive Investment Plan
     (g) . A lump sum amount equal to (a) in the case of a Tier I Participant, the Participant's annual Retirement Contributions under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Retirement Contribution Plan (or any successor or additional plans) and the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Retirement Contribution Excess Benefit Program (or any successor or additional plans) (individually the "EBP" and collectively, the "Retirement Contribution Plan") to which the Participant would have been entitled if he had remained employed by the Corporation for the Severance Period at the rate of annual compensation specified in Section 5(i) above except that the Annual Bonus Amount shall be treated as earned for the year in which separation occurred and the balance of the Severance Period and no award actually earned in, and paid for, the year in which termination occurred shall be considered, plus (b) for all Participants, the excess of (I) the benefits under the Retirement Contribution Plan to which the Participant would be entitled if the Participant were fully vested in all of his or her benefits under the Retirement Contribution Plan at the date of Separation from Service, over (II) the value of the benefits to which the Participant is actually entitled at the date of termination of employment, based upon the value of the Participant's account as of the most recent valuation date before the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding anything in Section 5 to the contrary, any amounts under subsection (b) of this subparagraph which are payable due to amounts the Participant would have been entitled under the EBP shall be payable at the date such amount would have been payable if the Participant were entitled to this amount under the terms of the EBP;
Retirement Contribution Plan
 
     (h) . In the case of a Tier I Participant, a lump sum retirement benefit, in addition to any benefits received under the Supplemental Benefit Plan to the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan (or any successor or additional plans) and the Second Supplemental Benefit Plan to the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan (or any successor or additional plans) (collectively, the "Supplemental Plan") and the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan (or any successor or additional plans) (the "Salaried Retirement Plan"), such benefit to be equal to the actuarial present value of a straight life annuity without level income option and in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the benefits under the Salaried Retirement Plan and the Supplemental Plan to which the Participant would have been entitled in the form of a straight life annuity without level income option if such Participant had remained employed by the Corporation for the Severance Period, at the rate of annual compensation specified in Section 5(i) above except that the Annual Bonus Amount shall be treated as earned for the year in which separation occurred and the balance of the Severance Period and no award actually earned in, and paid for, the year in which termination occurred shall be considered, over (b) the benefits to which the Participant would actually have been entitled under the Salaried Retirement Plan and the Supplemental Plan, had such benefit been paid in the form of a straight life annuity without level income option; and
Salaried Retirement Plan
     (i) . A lump sum amount equal to (a) the amount of the monthly premiums that the Participant would be required to pay, if he or she elected "COBRA" continuation coverage under the medical and dental plans of the Corporation in which the Participant was participating immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment, based upon the premium rates in effect as of the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment, times (b) for a Tier I Participant, 24, and for a Tier II Participant, 12.
Medical and Dental Benefits
          5. . The Agreement to be entered into pursuant to this Plan shall contain such other terms, provisions and conditions not inconsistent with this Plan as shall be determined by the Committee. Where appearing in this Plan or the Agreement, the masculine shall include the feminine and the plural shall include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Other Terms and Conditions
 
          6. . Each Participant's rights under this Plan shall be non-transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Non-Assignability
          7. . The Plan shall be unfunded. Neither the Corporation nor the Board shall be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by benefits under the Plan. Neither the Corporation nor the Board shall be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under the Plan. Any liability of the Corporation to any Participant with respect to any benefit shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations created by the Plan and the Agreement; no such obligation shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or any encumbrance on any property of the Corporation.
Unfunded Plan
          8. .
Certain Reduction of Payments by the Corporation when Payments Do Not Exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount
               (a) This Section 9 shall only be applicable if it shall be determined that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount. Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event Deloitte & Touche LLP or such other certified public accounting firm designated by the Corporation (the "Accounting Firm") shall determine that receipt of all Payments would subject a Participant, other than a Participant entitled to a Gross-Up Payment under Section 10 below, to tax under Section 4999 of the Code, it shall determine whether some amount of Separation Payments would meet the definition of a "Reduced Amount." If the Accounting Firm determines that there is a Reduced Amount, the aggregate Separation Payments shall be reduced to such Reduced Amount. All fees payable to the Accounting Firm with respect to this Section 9 shall be paid solely by the Corporation.
               (b) If the Accounting Firm determines that aggregate Separation Payments should be reduced to the Reduced Amount, the Corporation shall promptly give the Participant notice to that effect and a copy of the detailed calculation thereof, and the Participant may then elect, in his or her sole discretion, which and how much of the Separation Payments that are not required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such election the Value of the aggregate Separation Payments equals the Reduced Amount), and shall advise the Corporation in writing of his or her election within ten days of his receipt of notice. If no such election is made by the Participant within such ten-day period, the Corporation may elect which of such Separation Payments that
 
are not required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such election the Value of the aggregate Separation Payments equals the Reduced Amount) and shall notify the Participant promptly of such election. All determinations made by the Accounting Firm under this Section shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Participant and shall be made as promptly as practicable following such determination, the Corporation shall pay to or distribute for the benefit of the Participant such Separation Payments as are then due to the Participant under Section 5 of this Plan and shall promptly pay to or distribute for the benefit of the Participant in the future such Separation Payments as become due to the Participant under this Plan. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, such determination by the Accounting Firm shall be made within 60 days, and the payment by the Corporation shall be made within 90 days, of the later of a Separation from Service of the Executive or the date of the Change of Control.
               (c) While it is the intention of the Corporation to reduce the amounts payable or distributable to a Participant hereunder only if the aggregate Net After Tax Receipts to the Participant would thereby be increased, as a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that amounts will have been paid or distributed by the Corporation to or for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to this Plan which should not have been so paid or distributed ("Overpayment") or that additional amounts which will have not been paid or distributed by the Corporation to or for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to this Plan could have been so paid or distributed ("Underpayment"), in each case, consistent with the calculation of the Reduced Amount hereunder. In the event that the Accounting Firm determines that an Overpayment has been made, based upon the assertion of a deficiency by the Internal Revenue Service against the Corporation or the Participant which the Accounting Firm believes has a high probability of success, any such benefit of a Participant shall be treated for all purposes as a loan to the Participant which the Participant shall repay to the Corporation together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code; provided, however, that no such loan shall be deemed to have been made and no amount shall be payable by a Participant to the Corporation if and to the extent such deemed loan and payment would not ei-
 
ther reduce the amount on which the Participant is subject to tax under Section 1 and Section 4999 of the Code or generate a refund of such taxes. In the event that the Accounting Firm, based upon controlling precedent or substantial authority, determines that an Underpayment has occurred, any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Participant together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan or any Agreement to the contrary, the payment will be conditioned upon the Overpayment or Underpayment meeting the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
9. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Corporation to Participants
               (a) Anything in this Plan or any Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth in this paragraph, in the event that it shall be determined that any Payment to a Participant would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Participant shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that, after payment by the Participant of all taxes (and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Participant retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10(a), if it shall be determined that the Participant would (absent this sentence) be entitled to the Gross-Up Payment, but that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Participant and the provisions of Section 9 of this Plan shall apply to that Participant. The Corporation's obligation to make Gross-Up Payments under this Section 10 shall not be conditioned upon the Participant's Separation from Service.
               (b) Subject to the provisions of Section 10(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section 10, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by the Accounting Firm. The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Corporation and the Participant within 15 business days of the receipt of no-
 
tice from the Participant that there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Corporation. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Corporation. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section 10 (including any Underpayment under this subsection (b) and any payment under subsection (c)), shall be paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the applicable Participant by the end of the year following the year in which the Participant remits the related taxes, or, in the case of reimbursed audit or litigation expenses, by the end of the year following the years thetaxes are remitted or, if no taxes are remitted, the end of the year following the year the audit, settlement, or litigation is finally completed or resolved. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Participant. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by the Corporation should have been made (an "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Corporation exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 10(c) and the Participant thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Participant on the later of the date of such determination or after the date payments are due under Section 5 of this Plan.
               (c) Each Participant shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Corporation of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than 10 business days after the Participant is informed in writing of such claim. The Participant shall apprise the Corporation of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Participant shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Participant gives such notice to the Corporation (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Corporation notifies the Participant in writing prior to the expiration of such period that the Corporation desires to contest such claim, the Participant shall:
 
, that the Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest, and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation of the foregoing provisions of this Section 10(c), the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest, and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either pay the tax claimed to the appropriate taxing authority on behalf of the Participant and direct the Participant to sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Participant agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Corporation shall determine; , that, if the Corporation directs the Participant to pay such claim and directs the Participant to sue for a refund, the Corporation shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with respect to such payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment; and , that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Participant with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Corporation's control of
provided, however
provided, however
provided, further
 
the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Participant shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
               (d) If, after the receipt by a Participant of a Gross-Up Payment or payment by the Corporation of an amount on the Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 10(c), the Participant becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the Participant shall (subject to the Corporation's complying with the requirements of Section 10(c), if applicable) promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after payment by the Corporation of an amount on the Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 10(c), a determination is made that the Participant shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Corporation does not notify the Participant in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
               (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of a Participant, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and by signing an Agreement, the Participant shall consent to such withholding.
          10. . In no event shall any Participant be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Participant under any of the provisions of this Plan, and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Participant obtains other employment.
No Duty to Mitigate
          11. . The Committee shall have power at any time, in its discretion, to amend, abandon or terminate this Plan, in whole or in part; that no amendment, abandonment or termination shall impair or abridge the obligations of the Corporation under any Agreements previously entered into pursuant to this Plan except as expressly permitted by the terms of such Agreements.
Termination and Amendment of this Plan
except
          12. . The Corporation shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of its busi-
Successors
 
ness and/or assets to assume expressly and agree to perform this Plan and the Agreements in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform them if no such succession had taken place.
          13. . This amended and restated Plan shall become effective on November 13, 2008.
Effective Date
 
Exhibit A
Tier I Agreement
     AGREEMENT between KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, and (the "Executive").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, the Committee has approved the Corporation entering into severance agreements with key executives of the Corporation and its subsidiaries pursuant to the Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan"); and
     WHEREAS, the Executive is a key executive of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries and has been selected by the Committee as a key executive to be an Executive under the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, should the Corporation receive or learn of any proposal by or from a third person concerning a possible business combination with, or acquisition of equity securities of, the Corporation, or should the Corporation otherwise consider or pursue a transaction that could lead to a change of control, the Committee believes it imperative that the Corporation and the Board be able to rely upon the Executive to continue in the Executive's position, and that they be able to receive and rely upon the Executive's advice, if they request it, as to the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders, without concern that the Executive might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks created by such a possibility; and
     WHEREAS, should the Corporation receive or consider any such proposal or transaction, in addition to the Executive's regular duties, the Executive may be called upon to assist in the assessment of the proposal or transaction, advise management and the Board as to whether the proposal or transaction would be in the best interest of the Corporation and its stockholders, and to take such other actions as the Board might determine to be appropriate;
     NOW, THEREFORE, to assure the Corporation that it will have the continued dedication of the Executive and the availability of the Executive's advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of such a proposal or transaction, and to induce the Executive
 
to remain in the employ of the Corporation, and for other good and valuable consideration, the Corporation and the Executive agree as follows:
     In the event a third person, in order to effect a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined), begins a tender or exchange offer, circulates a proxy to stockholders, or takes other steps, or in the event the Corporation considers taking, or decides to take, steps that are expected to lead to a Change of Control, the Executive agrees that the Executive will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Corporation, and will render the services contemplated in the recitals to this Agreement and the Plan, until the efforts by the third party or the Corporation to effect a Change of Control are abandoned or until a Change of Control has occurred.
     A. . In the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment (as hereinafter defined) the Corporation will pay to the Executive, as compensation for services rendered to the Corporation a lump-sum cash amount or amounts (subject to any applicable payroll or other taxes required to be withheld) calculated by adding the amounts specified in subparagraphs (i) through (viii) below, such payments to be made within 10 day following the later of the date of Separation from Service or the date of the Change of Control, except to the extent not yet calculable, in which case such portions shall be paid as soon as practicable following the ability to calculate the amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as provided in Paragraphs E and F, all amounts payable under the terms of this plan shall be payable no later than March 15 of the year following the later of the date of Separation from Service or the date of the Change of Control. Notwithstanding anything in this Paragraph A to the contrary, any amounts which are payable due to amounts the Executive would have been entitled under a deferred compensation plan required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, such amounts shall be payable at the date it would have been payable if the Executive were entitled to this amount under the terms of the deferred compensation plan.
Lump-Sum Cash Payment
     (i) . A lump sum amount equal to two times the sum of (a) the Executive's annual base salary at the rate in effect immediately prior to the Relevant Date or, if higher, immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment and (b) the Annual Bonus Amount;
Salary plus Incentive Compensation
     (ii) (a) Except with respect to incentive stock options outstanding at the effective date of the Executive's Agreement for which the Option Price is lower than the Fair Market Value of the
Equity Participation Plan  Option Shares
 
Stock at such date, all stock options that were granted to the Executive under any of the Equity Plans, including but not limited to any substitute plans adopted prior to the Relevant Date (or any successor or additional plan), that were outstanding both on the Relevant Date and immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment, shall vest and become exercisable and the Qualified Termination of Employment of the Executive shall be deemed a retirement for purposes of exercising the stock options under the terms of the Equity Plans, and (b) notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Incentive Stock Options that were outstanding at the effective date of the Executive's Agreement for which the Option Price is lower than the Fair Market Value of the Stock at such date, and which were forfeited upon the separation of the Executive's service, a lump sum amount equal to the excess of (I) the aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of separation of the shares of common stock of the Corporation or other equity security then subject to such Incentive Stock Options over (II) the aggregate option price for such shares or other equity security;
     (iii) . With respect to restricted shares and/or restricted share units granted to the Executive under any of the Equity Plans that were outstanding but not vested on the Relevant Date and which are forfeited as a result of the separation of the Executive's service, a lump sum amount equal to the Fair Market Value of an equivalent number of shares of common stock of the Corporation (or such other equity security into which the restricted shares and/or restricted share units has been converted) on the date of separation of service; in the event the number of restricted shares and/or restricted share units was to be determined by the attainment of performance goals according to a schedule determined by the Committee, the number of shares that shall be considered to vest shall be the greater of the target level established or the number of shares which would have vested based on the attainment of the Performance Goal as of the end of the prior year;
Restricted Stock
     (iv) A lump sum amount equal to the payment to which the Executive would have been entitled had all amounts awarded or granted to the Executive, vested or matured, under any stock appreciation right, incentive compensation, and bonus plans, which are adopted after the effective date of
Successor or Additional Stock Appreciation Right, Incentive Compensation, and Bonus Plan.
 
the Executive's Agreement and in which the Executive participates immediately prior to the Relevant Date, including but not limited to any substitute plans adopted prior to the Relevant Date (or any successor or additional plan), which had not vested or matured as of the date of separation of service and will not vest or mature as a result of the separation of the Executive's service, such payment to be determined as though such award or grant had vested or matured on the date of separation of the Executive's service;
     (v) . A lump sum amount equal to any benefits under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees Incentive Investment Plan (or any successor or additional plan) that the Executive has accrued, but that are forfeited as a result of his or her separation of service, based upon the value of the Executive's account as of the most recent valuation date before the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment;
Incentive Investment Plan
     (vi) . A lump sum amount equal to (a) the Executive's annual Retirement Contributions under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Retirement Contribution Plan (or any successor or additional plans) and the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Retirement Contribution Excess Benefit Program (or any successor or additional plans) (individually the "EBP" and collectively, the "Retirement Contribution Plan") to which the Executive would have been entitled if he had remained employed by the Corporation for the Severance Period at the rate of annual compensation specified in subparagraph (i) of Paragraph A above except that the Annual Bonus Amount shall be treated as earned for the year in which separation of service occurred and the balance of the Severance Period and no award actually earned in, and paid for, the year in which separation of service occurred shall be considered, plus (b) the excess of (I) the benefits under the Retirement Contribution Plan to which the Executive would be entitled if the Executive were fully vested in all of his or her benefits under the Retirement Contribution Plan at the date of separation of service, over (II) the value of the benefits to which the Executive is actually entitled at the date of separation of service, based upon the value of the Executive's account as of the most recent valuation date before the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding anything in the Paragraph A to the contrary, any amounts under subsection (b) of this subparagraph which are payable due to amounts the Executive would
Retirement Contribution Plan
 
have been entitled under the EBP shall be payable at the date such amount would have been payable if the Executive were entitled to this amount under the terms of the EBP;
     (vii) . A lump sum retirement benefit, in addition to any benefits received under the Supplemental Benefit Plan to the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan (or any successor or additional plans) and the Second Supplemental Benefit Plan to the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan (or any successor or additional plans) (collectively, the "Supplemental Plan") and the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees' Retirement Plan (or any successor or additional plans) (the "Salaried Retirement Plan"), such benefit to be equal to the actuarial present value of a straight life annuity without level income option and in an amount equal to the excess of (a) the benefits under the Salaried Retirement Plan and the Supplemental Plan to which the Executive would have been entitled in the form of a straight life annuity without level income option if such Executive had remained employed by the Corporation for the Severance Period, at the rate of annual compensation specified in subparagraph (i) of Paragraph A above except that the Annual Bonus Amount shall be treated as earned for the year in which separation of service occurred and the balance of the Severance Period and no award actually earned in, and paid for, the year in which separation of service occurred shall be considered, over (b) the benefits to which the Executive would actually have been entitled under the Salaried Retirement Plan and the Supplemental Plan, had such benefit been paid in the form of a straight life annuity without level income option. Notwithstanding anything in the Paragraph A to the contrary, any amounts under subsection (b) of this subparagraph which are payable due to amounts the Executive would have been entitled under the Supplemental Plan shall be payable at the date such amount would have been payable if the Executive were entitled to this amount under the terms of the Supplemental Plan; and
Salaried Retirement Plan
     (viii) . A lump sum amount equal to (a) the amount of the monthly premiums that the Executive would be required to pay, if he or she elected "COBRA" continuation coverage under the medical and dental plans of the Corporation in which the Executive was participating immediately be-
Medical and Dental Benefits
 
fore the Qualified Termination of Employment, based upon the premium rates in effect as of the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment, times (b) 24.
     B. .
Other Matters
     (i) . In the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment, the Executive shall not be entitled to receive any severance benefits that would otherwise be available to the Executive under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Severance Pay Plan (or any successor or additional plan), or any other severance program sponsored by the Corporation and/or any of its Subsidiaries.
Severance Pay Plan Payments
     (ii) . The Executive's participation in savings, retirement, profit sharing, stock option, and/or stock appreciation rights plans of the Corporation and/or any of its Subsidiaries shall continue only through the last day of the Executive's employment. Any terminating distributions and/or vested rights under such plans shall be governed by the terms of those respective plans. Furthermore, the Executive's participation in any insurance plans of the Corporation and rights to any other fringe benefits shall except as otherwise specifically provided in such plans or corporate policy, terminate as of the close of the Executive's last day of employment, except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to entitle the Executive to any rights, or to payments under this Agreement, with respect to any employee benefit plan which the Executive was not a participant prior to a Qualified Termination of Employment.
Participation in Employee Benefit Plans
     (iii) . The Executive shall retain in confidence any confidential information known to the Executive concerning the Corporation and its business so long as such information is not publicly disclosed.
Continuing Obligations
     (iv) . Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to entitle the Executive to continued employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries and the rights of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to terminate the employment of the Executive shall continue as fully as if this Agreement were not in effect; that any Qualified Termination of Employment shall entitle the Executive to the benefits herein provided.
No Guarantee of Employment
provided
 
     C. . For the purpose of this Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have taken place upon the first of the following to occur after the date of this Agreement: (i) a third person, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, acquires shares of the Corporation having 30% or more of the total number of votes that may be cast for the election of directors of the Corporation; or (ii) as the result of any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions (a "Transaction"), the persons who were directors of the Corporation before the Transaction shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any successor to the Corporation.
Definition of Change of Control
     D. . For purposes of this Agreement, a "Subsidiary" shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation at least twenty percent (20%) of whose shares normally entitled to vote in electing directors is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation or by other Subsidiaries, provided, however, that "at least fifty percent (50%)" shall replace "at least twenty percent (20%)" where there is not a legitimate business criteria for using such lower percentage.
Definition of Subsidiary
     E. .
Certain Reduction of Payments by the Corporation when Payments Do Not Exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount
     (i) This Paragraph E shall only be applicable if it shall be determined that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount. If the Executive is not entitled to a Gross-Up Payment pursuant to Paragraph F below, then anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event Deloitte & Touche LLP or such other certified public accounting firm designated by the Corporation (the "Accounting Firm") shall determine that receipt of all Payments would subject the Executive to tax under Section 4999 of the Code, it shall determine whether some amount of Separation Payments would meet the definition of a "Reduced Amount." If the Accounting Firm determines that there is a Reduced Amount, the aggregate Separation Payment shall be reduced to such Reduced Amount. All fees payable to the Accounting Firm with respect to this Paragraph E shall be paid solely by the Corporation.
     (ii) If the Accounting Firm determines that aggregate Separation Payments should be reduced to the Reduced Amount, the Corporation shall
 
promptly give the Executive notice to that effect and a copy of the detailed calculation thereof, and the Executive may then elect, in the Executive's sole discretion, which and how much of the Separation Payments that are not required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such election the Value of the aggregate Separation Payments equals the Reduced Amount), and shall advise the Corporation in writing of the Executive's election within ten days of the Executive's receipt of notice. If no such election is made by the Executive within such ten-day period, the Corporation may elect which of such Separation Payments that are not required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such election the Value of the aggregate Separation Payments equals the Reduced Amount) and shall notify the Executive promptly of such election. All determinations made by the Accounting Firm under this paragraph shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Executive, and as promptly as practicable following such determination the Corporation shall pay to or distribute for the benefit of the Executive such Separation Payments as are then due to the Executive under this Agreement, and shall promptly pay to or distribute for the benefit of the Executive in the future such Separation Payments as become due to the Executive under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, such determination by the Accounting Firm shall be made within 60 days, and the payment by the Corporation shall be made within 90 days, of the later of a Separation from Service of the Executive or the date of the Change of Control. While it is the intention of the Corporation to reduce the amounts payable or distributable to the Executive hereunder only if the aggregate Net After Tax Receipts to the Executive would thereby be increased as a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that amounts will have been paid or distributed by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive pursuant to this Agreement which should not have been so paid or distributed ("Overpayment"), or that additional amounts which will have not been paid or distributed by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive pursuant to this Agreement could have been so paid or distributed ("Underpayment"), in each case, consistent with the calculation of the Reduced Amount hereunder.
 
In the event that the Accounting Firm determines that an Overpayment has been made, based upon the assertion of a deficiency by the Internal Revenue Service against the Corporation or the Executive which the Accounting Firm believes has a high probability of success, any such benefit of the Executive shall be treated for all purposes as a loan to the Executive which the Executive shall repay to the Corporation, together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code; , that no such loan shall be deemed to have been made and no amount shall be payable by the Executive to the Corporation if and to the extent such deemed loan and payment would not either reduce the amount on which the Executive is subject to tax under Section 1 and Section 4999 of the Code, or generate a refund of such taxes. In the event the Accounting Firm, based upon controlling precedent or substantial authority, determines that an Underpayment has occurred, any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary payment will be conditioned upon the Overpayment or Underpayment meeting the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
provided, however
     F. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Corporation when Payments Exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount
     (i) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth in this paragraph, in the event that it shall be determined that any Payment to the Executive would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph (i) of Paragraph F, if it shall be determined that the Executive would (absent this sentence) be entitled to the Gross-Up Payment, but that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then no Gross-
 
Up Payment shall be made to the Executive and the provisions of Paragraph E above shall apply to that Executive. The Corporation's obligation to make Gross-Up Payments under this Paragraph F shall not be conditioned upon the Executive's Separation from Service.
     (ii) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (iii) of Paragraph F, all determinations required to be made under this Paragraph F, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by the Accounting Firm. The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Corporation and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Corporation. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Corporation. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Paragraph F (including any Underpayment under this subparagraph (ii) and any payment under subparagraph (iii), shall be paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive by the end of the year following the year in which the Executive remits the related taxes or, in the case of reimbursed audit or litigation expenses, by the end of the year following the years the taxes are remitted or, if no taxes are remitted, the end of the year following the year the audit, settlement, or litigation is finally completed or resolved. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by the Corporation should have been made (an "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Corporation exhausts its remedies pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of Paragraph F and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive on the later of the date of such determination or after the date payments are due under Paragraph A of this Agreement.
 
     (iii) The Executive shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Corporation of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than 10 business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim. The Executive shall apprise the Corporation of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Corporation (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Corporation notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that the Corporation desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
, that the Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest, and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation of the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph (iii) of Paragraph F, the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest, and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable tax-
provided, however
 
ing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either pay the tax claimed to the appropriate taxing authority on behalf of the Executive and direct the Executive to sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Corporation shall determine; , that, if the Corporation directs the Executive to pay such claim and directs the Executive to sue for a refund, the Corporation shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with respect to such payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment;and , that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Corporation's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
provided, however
provided, further
     (iv) If, after the receipt by the Executive of a Gross-Up Payment or payment by the Corporation of an amount on the Executive's behalf pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Paragraph F, the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Corporation's complying with the requirements of subparagraph (iii) of this Paragraph F, if applicable) promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after payment by the Corporation of an amount on the Executive's behalf pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Paragraph F, a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Corporation does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
 
     (v) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of the Executive, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and by signing this Agreement, the Executive consents to such withholding.
     G. .
Definitions
     (i) : The Target-level award payable to the Executive for the year in which the Relevant Date occurred (or, if not then established, for the preceding year) or, if higher, for any subsequent year that begins before the Qualified Termination of Employment, under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive Officer Achievement Award Program or the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Management Achievement Award Program, as applicable, or any successor or additional plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this definition may be amended at the discretion of the Committee consistent with any amendment of the definition of Annual Bonus Amount under the Plan to allow any amounts payable by the Corporation to comply with the definition of performance based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder).
Annual Bonus Amount
     (ii) : The Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
     (iii) : The term "Cause" shall mean any of the following:
Cause
     (a) the commission by the Executive of a felony;
     (b) the Executive's dishonesty, habitual neglect or incompetence in the management of the affairs of the Corporation; or
          (c) the refusal or failure by the Executive to act in accordance with any lawful directive or order of the Corporation, or an act or failure to act by the Executive which is in bad faith and which is detrimental to the Corporation.
     (iv) : The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (v) : The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Committee
 
     (vi) : Kimberly-Clark Corporation and any successor thereto that assumes this Plan and the Agreements pursuant to Paragraph H.(v) below.
Corporation
     (vii) : The Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2001 Equity Participation Plan, the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1999 Restricted Stock Plan, the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1992 Equity Participation Plan, and any successor or additional plans under which the Executive receives stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation.
Equity Plans
     (viii) : The excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax.
Excise Tax
     (ix) : With respect to any publicly traded equity security, the reported closing price of such security on the relevant date as reported on the composite list used by for reporting stock prices, or, if no such sale shall have been made on that day, on the last preceding day on which there was such a sale; and with respect to any other property, the fair market value thereof as determined by the Committee in good faith.
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
     (x) : Termination by the Executive for "Good Reason" shall mean the separation from service during the two year time period following the initial existence (without the Executive's express written consent) of any one of the following conditions:
Good Reason
     (a) A material diminution in the Executive's base compensation.
     (b) A material diminution in the Executive's authority, duties, or responsibilities.
     (c) A material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom the Executive is required to report, including a requirement that a Executive report to a corporate officer or employee instead of reporting directly to the board of directors of the Corporation.
     (d) A material diminution in the budget over which the Executive retains authority.
 
     (e) A material change in the geographic location at which the Executive must perform the services.
     (f) Any other action or inaction that constitutes a material breach by the Corporation of any agreement under which the Executive provides services.
     The Executive must provide notice to the Corporation of the existence of any of the above conditions within a period not to exceed 90 days of the initial existence of the condition, upon the notice of which the Corporation must be provided a period of at least 30 days during which it may remedy the condition and not be required to pay the amount.
      The Executive's right to terminate the Executive's employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Executive's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder.
     (xi) : The Value of a Payment, net of all taxes imposed on the Executive with respect thereto under Sections 1 and 4999 of the Code, determined by applying the highest marginal rate under Section 1 of the Code which applied to the Executive's taxable income for the immediately preceding taxable year.
Net After Tax Receipt
     (xii) : With respect to a Payment, the present value as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a "parachute payment" under Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Accounting Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment.
Parachute Value
     (xiii) : The separation of the Executive's service with the Corporation and/or its Subsidiaries either (i) within the two (2) year period following a Change of Control of the Corporation (A) by the Corporation without Cause or, (B) by the Executive with Good Reason, or (ii) by the Corporation without Cause before a Change of Control, if a Change of Control occurs within one year after such Separation from Service and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such Separation from Service was at the
Qualified Termination of Employment
 
request of a third party that had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control. A transfer of employment for administrative purposes among the Corporation and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed a Qualified Termination of Employment, but if such a transfer results in the occurrence of Good Reason, the Executive shall have the right to terminate employment for Good Reason and such separation shall be a Qualified Termination of Employment.
     (xiv) : The greatest aggregate amount of Separation Payments which (a) is less than the sum of all Separation Payments and (b) results in aggregate Net After Tax Receipts which are equal to or greater than the Net After Tax Receipts which would result if the Executive were paid the sum of all Separation Payments.
Reduced Amount
     (xv) : In the case of a Qualified Termination of Employment as described in clause (ii) of the definition of "Qualified Termination of Employment," the date of such Qualified Termination of Employment and, in all other cases, the date of the Change of Control.
Relevant Date
     (xvi) : The portion of the payment to or for the benefit of an Executive that does not constitute an "excess parachute payment for purposes of Section 280G of the Code.
Safe Harbor Amount
     (xvii) . Termination of employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary. A Separation from Service will be deemed to have occurred if the Executive's services with the Corporation or a Subsidiary is reduced to an annual rate that is 20 percent or less of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three years of employment (or if employed less than three years, such lesser period).
Separation from Service
     (xviii) : A Payment paid or payable to the Executive pursuant to this Plan or an Agreement.
Separation Payment
     (xix) : The period of two years beginning on the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment.
Severance Period
     (xx) : With respect to a Payment, the economic present value of a Payment as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G
Value
 
of the Code, as determined by the Accounting Firm using the discount rate required by Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.
H. .
General
     (i) . In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Plan, and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment.
No Duty to Mitigate
     (ii) . If litigation shall be brought to enforce or interpret any provision contained herein, the Corporation hereby agrees to indemnify the Executive for the Executive's reasonable attorney's fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation, and hereby agrees to pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by the Executive calculated at Citibank's (or any successor entity) prime rate of interest in effect from time to time from the date that payment(s) to the Executive should have been made under this Agreement. The reimbursement of an attorney's fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense was incurred.
Indemnification
     (iii) . The Corporation's obligation to pay the Executive the compensation and to make the arrangements provided herein shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including without limitation, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Corporation may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Corporation hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Except as expressly provided herein, the Corporation waives all rights which it may now have or may hereafter have conferred upon it, by statute or otherwise, to terminate, cancel or rescind this Agreement in whole or in part. Each and every payment made hereunder by the Corporation shall be final and the Corporation will not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from the Executive or from whosoever may be entitled thereto, for any reason whatsoever.
Payment Obligations Absolute
 
     (iv) . The obligation of the Corporation under this Agreement shall be unfunded. The Corporation shall not be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by benefits under this Agreement. The Corporation shall not be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under this Agreement. Any liability of the Corporation to the Executive with respect to any benefit shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations created hereunder; no such obligation shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or any encumbrance on any property of the Corporation.
Unfunded Obligation
     (v) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Executive and the Executive's estate, and the Corporation and any successor of the Corporation, but neither this Agreement nor any rights arising hereunder may be assigned or pledged by the Executive. The Corporation shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of its business and/or assets to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
Successors
     (vi) . Any provision in this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
     (vii) . This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware. Where appearing in this Agreement, the masculine shall include the feminine and the plural shall include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Controlling Law
     (viii) . The Executive and the Corporation acknowledge that upon its execution, this Agreement supersedes any and all prior agreements between the Executive and the Corporation under the Plan as in effect at this time or at any prior time. From and after the Relevant Date, except as specifically provided herein, this Agreement shall supersede any other agreement between the parties with respect to severance pay and benefits. Notwith-
Entire Agreement
 
standing the foregoing, any previously executed noncompetition agreement shall continue in effect following the execution of this Agreement and the Relevant Date.
     (ix) . This Agreement shall terminate on the third anniversary of the date hereof unless either (1) a Change of Control occurs on or before such third anniversary or (2) the Committee determines to extend this Agreement for an additional three-year term or such shorter period as it determines to be appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time when this Agreement would otherwise terminate, a third party has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or a Change of Control is otherwise under consideration, then this Agreement shall automatically continue in effect until (A) a Change of Control occurs, in which event this Agreement shall thereafter remain in effect in accordance with its terms, or (B) the Board makes a good faith determination that in its opinion, the efforts by the third party or the Corporation to effect a Change of Control have been abandoned, at which time the Agreement shall terminate unless it is extended pursuant to clause (2) of the preceding sentence.
Termination
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the ___ day of , 20.
                    
                    
                    
 
Exhibit B
Tier II Agreement
     AGREEMENT between KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, and (the "Executive").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, the Committee has approved the Corporation entering into severance agreements with key executives of the Corporation and its subsidiaries pursuant to the Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan"); and
     WHEREAS, the Executive is a key executive of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries and has been selected by the Committee as a key executive to be an Executive under the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, should the Corporation receive or learn of any proposal by or from a third person concerning a possible business combination with, or acquisition of equity securities of, the Corporation, or should the Corporation otherwise consider or pursue a transaction that could lead to a change of control, the Committee believes it imperative that the Corporation and the Board be able to rely upon the Executive to continue in the Executive's position, and that they be able to receive and rely upon the Executive's advice, if they request it, as to the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders, without concern that the Executive might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks created by such a possibility; and
     WHEREAS, should the Corporation receive or consider any such proposal or transaction, in addition to the Executive's regular duties, the Executive may be called upon to assist in the assessment of the proposal or transaction, advise management and the Board as to whether the proposal or transaction would be in the best interest of the Corporation and its stockholders, and to take such other actions as the Board might determine to be appropriate;
     NOW, THEREFORE, to assure the Corporation that it will have the continued dedication of the Executive and the availability of the Executive's advice and counsel notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of such a proposal or transaction, and to induce the Executive
 
to remain in the employ of the Corporation, and for other good and valuable consideration, the Corporation and the Executive agree as follows:
     In the event a third person, in order to effect a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined), begins a tender or exchange offer, circulates a proxy to stockholders, or takes other steps, or in the event the Corporation considers taking, or decides to take, steps that are expected to lead to a Change of Control, the Executive agrees that the Executive will not voluntarily leave the employ of the Corporation, and will render the services contemplated in the recitals to this Agreement and the Plan, until the efforts by the third party or the Corporation to effect a Change of Control are abandoned or until a Change of Control has occurred.
     A. . In the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment (as hereinafter defined) the Corporation will pay to the Executive, as compensation for services rendered to the Corporation a lump-sum cash amount or amounts (subject to any applicable payroll or other taxes required to be withheld) calculated by adding the amounts specified in subparagraphs (i) through (viii) below, such payments to be made within 10 day following the later of the date of Separation from Service or the date of the Change of Control, except to the extent not yet calculable, in which case such portions shall be paid as soon as practicable following the ability to calculate the amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as provided in Paragraphs E and F, all amounts payable under the terms of this plan shall be payable no later than March 15 of the year following the later of the date of Separation from Service or the date of the Change of Control. Notwithstanding anything in this Paragraph A to the contrary, any amounts which are payable due to amounts the Executive would have been entitled under a deferred compensation plan required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, such amounts shall be payable at the date it would have been payable if the Executive were entitled to this amount under the terms of the deferred compensation plan.
Lump-Sum Cash Payment
     (i) . A lump sum amount equal to the sum of (a) the Executive's annual base salary at the rate in effect immediately prior to the Relevant Date or, if higher, immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment and (b) the Annual Bonus Amount;
Salary plus Incentive Compensation
     (ii) . (a) Except with respect to incentive stock options outstanding at the effective date of the Executive's Agreement for which the Option Price is lower than the Fair Market Value of the
Equity Participation Plan  Option Shares
 
Stock at such date, all stock options that were granted to the Executive under any of the Equity Plans, including but not limited to any substitute plans adopted prior to the Relevant Date (or any successor or additional plan), that were outstanding both on the Relevant Date and immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment, shall vest and become exercisable and the Qualified Termination of Employment of the Executive shall be deemed a retirement for purposes of exercising the stock options under the terms of the Equity Plans, and (b) notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Incentive Stock Options that were outstanding at the effective date of the Executive's Agreement for which the Option Price is lower than the Fair Market Value of the Stock at such date, and which were forfeited upon the Executive's Separation from Service, a lump sum amount equal to the excess of (I) the aggregate Fair Market Value on the date of termination of the shares of common stock of the Corporation or other equity security then subject to such Incentive Stock Options over (II) the aggregate option price for such shares or other equity security;
     (iii) . With respect to restricted shares and/or restricted share units granted to the Executive under any of the Equity Plans that were outstanding but not vested on the Relevant Date and which are forfeited as a result of the Executive's Separation from Service, a lump sum amount equal to the Fair Market Value of an equivalent number of shares of common stock of the Corporation (or such other equity security into which the restricted shares and/or restricted share units has been converted) on the date of Separation from Service; in the event the number of restricted shares and/or restricted share units was to be determined by the attainment of performance goals according to a schedule determined by the Committee, the number of shares that shall be considered to vest shall be the greater of the target level established or the number of shares which would have vested based on the attainment of the Performance Goal as of the end of the prior year;
Restricted Stock
     (iv) A lump sum amount equal to the payment to which the Executive would have been entitled had all amounts awarded or granted to the Executive, vested or matured, under any stock appreciation right, incentive compensation, and bonus plans, which are adopted after
Successor or Additional Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Incentive Compensation, and Bonus Plan.
 
the effective date of the Executive's Agreement and in which the Executive participates immediately prior to the Relevant Date, including but not limited to any substitute plans adopted prior to the Relevant Date (or any successor or additional plan), which had not vested or matured as of the date of separation from service and will not vest or mature as a result of the Executive's Separation from Service, such payment to be determined as though such award or grant had vested or matured on the date of the Executive's Separation from Service;
     (v) . A lump sum amount equal to any benefits under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Salaried Employees Incentive Investment Plan (or any successor or additional plan) that the Executive has accrued, but that are forfeited as a result of his or her Separation from Service, based upon the value of the Executive's account as of the most recent valuation date before the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment;
Incentive Investment Plan
     (vi) . A lump sum amount equal to the excess of (A) the benefits under the Retirement Contribution Plan to which the Executive would be entitled if the Executive were fully vested in all of his or her benefits under the Retirement Contribution Plan at the date of Separation from Service, over (B) the value of the benefits to which the Executive is actually entitled at the date of Separation from Service, based upon the value of the Executive's account as of the most recent valuation date before the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment;
Retirement Contribution Plan
     (vii) . A lump sum amount equal to (a) the amount of the monthly premiums that the Executive would be required to pay, if he or she elected "COBRA" continuation coverage under the medical and dental plans of the Corporation in which the Executive was participating immediately before the Qualified Termination of Employment, based upon the premium rates in effect as of the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment, times (b) 12.
Medical and Dental Benefits
     B. .
Other Matters
     (i) . In the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment, the Executive shall not be entitled to receive any severance benefits that would otherwise be available to the Executive under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Severance Pay Plan (or any successor or additional
Severance Pay Plan Payments
 
plan), or any other severance program sponsored by the Corporation and/or any of its Subsidiaries.
     (ii) . The Executive's participation in savings, retirement, profit sharing, stock option, and/or stock appreciation rights plans of the Corporation and/or any of its Subsidiaries shall continue only through the last day of the Executive's employment. Any terminating distributions and/or vested rights under such plans shall be governed by the terms of those respective plans. Furthermore, the Executive's participation in any insurance plans of the Corporation and rights to any other fringe benefits shall except as otherwise specifically provided in such plans or corporate policy, terminate as of the close of the Executive's last day of employment, except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to entitle the Executive to any rights, or to payments under this Agreement, with respect to any employee benefit plan which the Executive was not a participant prior to a Qualified Termination of Employment.
Participation in Employee Benefit Plans
     (iii) . The Executive shall retain in confidence any confidential information known to the Executive concerning the Corporation and its business so long as such information is not publicly disclosed.
Continuing Obligations
     (iv) . Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to entitle the Executive to continued employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries and the rights of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to terminate the employment of the Executive shall continue as fully as if this Agreement were not in effect; that any Qualified Termination of Employment shall entitle the Executive to the benefits herein provided.
No Guarantee of Employment
provided
     C. . For the purpose of this Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have taken place upon the first of the following to occur after the date of this Agreement: (i) a third person, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, acquires shares of the Corporation having 30% or more of the total number of votes that may be cast for the election of directors of the Corporation; or (ii) as the result of any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions (a "Transaction"), the persons who
Definition of Change of Control
 
were directors of the Corporation before the Transaction shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any successor to the Corporation.
     D. . For purposes of this Agreement, a "Subsidiary" shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation at least twenty percent (20%) of whose shares normally entitled to vote in electing directors is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation or by other Subsidiaries, provided, however, that "at least fifty percent (50%)" shall replace "at least twenty percent (20%)" where there is not a legitimate business criteria for using such lower percentage.
Definition of Subsidiary
     E. .
Certain Reduction of Payments by the Corporation when Payments Do Not Exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount
     (i) This Paragraph E shall only be applicable if it shall be determined that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount. If the Executive is not entitled to a Gross-Up Payment pursuant to Paragraph F below, then anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event Deloitte & Touche LLP or such other certified public accounting firm designated by the Corporation (the "Accounting Firm") shall determine that receipt of all Payments would subject the Executive to tax under Section 4999 of the Code, it shall determine whether some amount of Separation Payments would meet the definition of a "Reduced Amount." If the Accounting Firm determines that there is a Reduced Amount, the aggregate Separation Payment shall be reduced to such Reduced Amount. All fees payable to the Accounting Firm with respect to this Paragraph E shall be paid solely by the Corporation.
     (ii) If the Accounting Firm determines that aggregate Separation Payments should be reduced to the Reduced Amount, the Corporation shall promptly give the Executive notice to that effect and a copy of the detailed calculation thereof, and the Executive may then elect, in the Executive's sole discretion, which and how much of the Separation Payments that are not required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such election the Value of the aggregate Separation Payments equals the Reduced Amount), and shall advise the Corporation in writing of the Executive's election within ten days of the Executive's receipt of notice. If no such election is made
 
by the Executive within such ten-day period, the Corporation may elect which of such Separation Payments that are not required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereundershall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such election the Value of the aggregate Separation Payments equals the Reduced Amount) and shall notify the Executive promptly of such election. All determinations made by the Accounting Firm under this paragraph shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Executive, and shall be made as promptly as practicable following such determination, the Corporation shall pay to or distribute for the benefit of the Executive such Separation Payments as are then due to the Executive under this Agreement, and shall promptly pay to or distribute for the benefit of the Executive in the future such Separation Payments as become due to the Executive under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, such determination by the Accounting Firm shall be made within 60 days, and the payment by the Corporation shall be made within 90 days, of the later of a Separation from Service of the Executive or the date of the Change of Control.
     (iii) While it is the intention of the Corporation to reduce the amounts payable or distributable to the Executive hereunder only if the aggregate Net After Tax Receipts to the Executive would thereby be increased as a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that amounts will have been paid or distributed by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive pursuant to this Agreement which should not have been so paid or distributed ("Overpayment"), or that additional amounts which will have not been paid or distributed by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive pursuant to this Agreement could have been so paid or distributed ("Underpayment"), in each case, consistent with the calculation of the Reduced Amount hereunder. In the event that the Accounting Firm determines that an Overpayment has been made, based upon the assertion of a deficiency by the Internal Revenue Service against the Corporation or the Executive which the Accounting Firm believes has a high probability of success, any such benefit of the Executive shall be treated for all purposes as a loan to the Executive which the Executive shall repay to the Corporation, together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code; , that no such loan shall be
provided, however
 
deemed to have been made and no amount shall be payable by the Executive to the Corporation if and to the extent such deemed loan and payment would not either reduce the amount on which the Executive is subject to tax under Section 1 and Section 4999 of the Code, or generate a refund of such taxes. In the event the Accounting Firm, based upon controlling precedent or substantial authority, determines that an Underpayment has occurred, any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive together with interest at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, payment will be conditioned upon the Overpayment or Underpayment meeting the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
     F. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Corporation when Payments Exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount
     (i) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth in this paragraph, in the event that it shall be determined that any Payment to the Executive would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that, after payment by the Executive of all taxes (and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph (i) of Paragraph F, if it shall be determined that the Executive would (absent this sentence) be entitled to the Gross-Up Payment, but that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Executive and the provisions of Paragraph E above shall apply to that Executive. The Corporation's obligation to make Gross-Up Payments under this Paragraph F shall not be conditioned upon the Executive's Separation from Service.
     (ii) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (iii) of Paragraph F, all determinations required to be made under this Paragraph F, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Pay-
 
ment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by the Accounting Firm. The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Corporation and the Executive within 15 business days of the receipt of notice from the Executive that there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Corporation. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Corporation. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Paragraph F, (including any Underpayment under this subparagraph (ii) and any payment under subparagraph (iii), shall be paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive by the end of the year following the year in which the Executive remits the related taxes or, in the case of reimbursed audit or litigation expenses, by the end of the year following the years the taxes are remitted or, if no taxes are remitted, the end of the year following the year the audit, settlement, or litigation is finally completed or resolved. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by the Corporation should have been made (an "Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Corporation exhausts its remedies pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of Paragraph F and the Executive thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to or for the benefit of the Executive on the later of the date of such determination or after the date payments are due under Paragraph A of this Agreement.
     (iii) The Executive shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Corporation of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than 10 business days after the Executive is informed in writing of such claim. The Executive shall apprise the Corporation of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Executive shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Executive gives such notice to the Corpo-
 
ration (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Corporation notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such period that the Corporation desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:
, that the Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest, and shall indemnify and hold the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation of the foregoing provisions of this subparagraph (iii) of Paragraph F, the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest, and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either pay the tax claimed to the appropriate taxing authority on behalf of the Executive and direct the Executive to sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Executive agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Corporation shall determine; , that, if the Corporation directs the Executive to pay such claim and directs the Executive to sue for a refund, the Corporation shall indemnify and hold the Ex-
provided, however
provided, however
 
ecutive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with respect to such payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment; and , that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Executive with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Corporation's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
provided, further
     (iv) If, after the receipt by the Executive of a Gross-Up Payment or payment by the Corporation of an amount on the Executive's behalf pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Paragraph F, the Executive becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the Executive shall (subject to the Corporation's complying with the requirements of subparagraph (iii) of this Paragraph F, if applicable) promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after payment by the Corporation of an amount on the Executive's behalf pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Paragraph F, a determination is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Corporation does not notify the Executive in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of 30 days after such determination, then the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
     (v) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of the Executive, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and by signing this Agreement, the Executive consents to such withholding.
     G. .
Definitions
     (i) : The Target-level award payable to the Executive for the year in which the Relevant Date occurred (or, if not then estab-
Annual Bonus Amount
 
lished, for the preceding year) or, if higher, for any subsequent year that begins before the Qualified Termination of Employment, under the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Executive Officer Achievement Award Program or the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Management Achievement Award Program, as applicable, or any successor or additional plan. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this definition may be amended at the discretion of the Committee consistent with any amendment of the definition of Annual Bonus Amount under the Plan to allow any amounts payable by the Corporation to comply with the definition of performance based compensation under section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder).
     (ii) : The Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
     (iii) : The term "Cause" shall mean any of the following:
Cause
               (a) the commission by the Executive of a felony;
               (b) the Executive's dishonesty, habitual neglect or incompetence in the management of the affairs of the Corporation; or
               (c) the refusal or failure by the Executive to act in accordance with any lawful directive or order of the Corporation, or an act or failure to act by the Executive which is in bad faith and which is detrimental to the Corporation.
     (iv) : The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (v) : The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Committee
     (vi) : Kimberly-Clark Corporation and any successor thereto that assumes this Plan and the Agreements pursuant to Paragraph H.(v) below.
Corporation
     (vii) : The Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2001 Equity Participation Plan, the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1999 Restricted Stock Plan, the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 1992 Equity Participation Plan, and any successor or additional plans under which the Executive receives stock options, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation.
Equity Plans
 
     (viii) : The excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax.
Excise Tax
     (ix) : With respect to any publicly traded equity security, the reported closing price of such security on the relevant date as reported on the composite list used by for reporting stock prices, or, if no such sale shall have been made on that day, on the last preceding day on which there was such a sale; and with respect to any other property, the fair market value thereof as determined by the Committee in good faith.
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
     (x) : Termination by the Executive for "Good Reason" shall mean the separation from service during the two year time period following the initial existence (without the Executive's express written consent) of any one of the following conditions:
Good Reason
     The Executive must provide notice to the Corporation of the existence of any of the above conditions within a period not to exceed 90 days of the initial existence of the condition, upon the notice of which the Corporation must be provided a period of at least 30 days during which it may remedy the condition and not be required to pay the amount.
 
     The Executive's right to terminate the Executive's employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Executive's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder.
     (xi) : The Value of a Payment, net of all taxes imposed on the Executive with respect thereto under Sections 1 and 4999 of the Code, determined by applying the highest marginal rate under Section 1 of the Code which applied to the Executive's taxable income for the immediately preceding taxable year.
Net After Tax Receipt
     (xii) : With respect to a Payment, the present value as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a "parachute payment" under Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Accounting Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment.
Parachute Value
     (xiii) : The separation of the Executive's service with the Corporation and/or its Subsidiaries either (i) within the two (2) year period following a Change of Control of the Corporation (A) by the Corporation without Cause or (B) by the Executive with Good Reason, or (ii) by the Corporation without Cause before a Change of Control, if a Change of Control occurs within one year after such Separation from Service and it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such Separation from Service was at the request of a third party that had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control. A transfer of employment for administrative purposes among the Corporation and its Subsidiaries shall not be deemed a Qualified Termination of Employment, but if such a transfer results in the occurrence of Good Reason, the Executive shall have the right to terminate employment for Good Reason and such separation shall be a Qualified Termination of Employment.
Qualified Termination of Employment
     (xiv) : The greatest aggregate amount of Separation Payments which (a) is less than the sum of all Separation Payments and (b) results in aggregate Net After Tax Receipts which are equal to or greater than the
Reduced Amount
 
Net After Tax Receipts which would result if the Executive were paid the sum of all Separation Payments.
     (xv) : In the case of a Qualified Termination of Employment as described in clause (ii) of the definition of "Qualified Termination of Employment," the date of such Qualified Termination of Employment and, in all other cases, the date of the Change of Control.
Relevant Date
     (xvi) : The portion of the payment to or for the benefit of an Executive that does not constitute an "excess parachute payment for purposes of Section 280G of the Code.
Safe Harbor Amount
     (xvii) : Termination of employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary. A Separation from Service will be deemed to have occurred if the Executive's services with the Corporation or a Subsidiary is reduced to an annual rate that is 20 percent or less of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three years of employment (or if employed less than three years, such lesser period).
Separation from Service
     (xviii) : A Payment paid or payable to the Executive pursuant to this Plan or an Agreement.
Separation Payment
     (xix) : The period of one year beginning on the date of the Qualified Termination of Employment.
Severance Period
     (xx) : With respect to a Payment, the economic present value of a Payment as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code, as determined by the Accounting Firm using the discount rate required by Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.
Value
     H. .
General
     (i) . In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Plan, and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment.
No Duty to Mitigate
     (ii) . If litigation shall be brought to enforce or interpret any provision contained herein, the Corporation hereby agrees to indemnify the
Indemnification
 
Executive for the Executive's reasonable attorney's fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation, and hereby agrees to pay prejudgment interest on any money judgment obtained by the Executive calculated at Citibank's (or any successor entity) prime rate of interest in effect from time to time from the date that payment(s) to the Executive should have been made under this Agreement. The reimbursement of an attorney's fees and disbursements incurred in such litigation will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense was incurred.
     (iii) . The Corporation's obligation to pay the Executive the compensation and to make the arrangements provided herein shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including without limitation, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Corporation may have against the Executive or anyone else. All amounts payable by the Corporation hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand. Except as expressly provided herein, the Corporation waives all rights which it may now have or may hereafter have conferred upon it, by statute or otherwise, to terminate, cancel or rescind this Agreement in whole or in part. Each and every payment made hereunder by the Corporation shall be final and the Corporation will not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from the Executive or from whosoever may be entitled thereto, for any reason whatsoever.
Payment Obligations Absolute
     (iv) . The obligation of the Corporation under this Agreement shall be unfunded. The Corporation shall not be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by benefits under this Agreement. The Corporation shall not be deemed to be a trustee of any amounts to be paid under this Agreement. Any liability of the Corporation to the Executive with respect to any benefit shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations created hereunder; no such obligation shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or any encumbrance on any property of the Corporation.
Unfunded Obligation
     (v) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Executive and the Executive's estate, and the Corporation and any successor of the Corporation, but neither this Agreement nor any rights arising hereunder may be assigned or pledged by the Executive. The Corporation
Successors
 
shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of its business and/or assets to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place.
     (vi) . Any provision in this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
     (vii) . This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware. Where appearing in this Agreement, the masculine shall include the feminine and the plural shall include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Controlling Law
     (viii) . The Executive and the Corporation acknowledge that upon its execution, this Agreement supersedes any and all prior agreements between the Executive and the Corporation under the Plan as in effect at this time or at any prior time. From and after the Relevant Date, except as specifically provided herein, this Agreement shall supersede any other agreement between the parties with respect to severance pay and benefits. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any previously executed noncompetition agreement shall continue in effect following the execution of this Agreement and the Relevant Date.
Entire Agreement
     (ix) . This Agreement shall terminate on the third anniversary of the date hereof unless either (1) a Change of Control occurs on or before such third anniversary or (2) the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation determines to extend this Agreement for an additional three-year term or such shorter period as he or she determines to be appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time when this Agreement would otherwise terminate, a third party has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change of Control or a Change of Control is otherwise under consideration, then this Agreement shall automatically continue in effect until (A) a Change of Control oc-
Termination
 
curs, in which event this Agreement shall thereafter remain in effect in accordance with its terms, or (B) the Board makes a good faith determination that in its opinion, the efforts by the third party or the Corporation to effect a Change of Control have been abandoned, at which time the Agreement shall terminate unless it is extended pursuant to clause (2) of the preceding sentence.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the day of , 20 ..
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    

Exhibit (10)p
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


