FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20080422090036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Corporation), dated April 22, 2008, reporting the Corporations results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued by Kimberly-Clark Corporation on April 22, 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99.1     Press release issued by Kimberly-Clark Corporation on April 22, 2008.
 
 
 

                                                                          
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
David J. Dickson
972-281-1481
ddickson@kcc.com
DALLAS, April 22, 2008Kimberly-Clark Corporation (NYSE: KMB) today reported that net sales in the first quarter of 2008 advanced 9.7 percent to $4.8 billion, a new quarterly record.  Chief among the highlights, sales in developing and emerging markets climbed 22 percent, with particular strength in the Personal Care and K-C Professional businesses.  Overall, organic sales growth exceeded 5 percent, driven primarily by increased sales volumes and higher net selling prices.  Changes in currency exchange rates also benefited sales by more than 4 percent.
Diluted net income per share was $1.04 compared with $0.98 in the prior year.  Adjusted earnings in the first quarter of 2008 were $1.08 per share, up 5 percent from $1.03 per share in 2007 and in line with the companys previous guidance range of $1.05 to $1.08 per share.  The top-line growth, along with continued success in reducing costs, helped the company deliver improved results despite approximately $160 million of cost inflation and a $22 million rise in strategic marketing spending.  A lower share count, partially offset by a related increase in interest expense, also contributed to the increase in adjusted earnings per share versus the year-ago period.
Adjusted earnings exclude charges for strategic cost reductions to streamline the companys operations in both years and certain incremental implementation costs related to the strategic cost reduction plan in 2007.  Further information about adjusted earnings and other non-GAAP financial measures is provided in a separate section of this news release.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas J. Falk said, Were off to a good start in 2008, with results on plan in the first quarter in the face of unrelenting inflationary pressures.  Our Personal Care business continued to peform at a high level.  Top-line growth was a robust 14 percent and the bottom-line expanded at an even faster pace, as our teams delivered double-digit operating profit gains in every region of the world.  Im also encouraged that overall net selling prices increased by nearly 2 percent during the quarter.  Improving revenue realization is a key focus for us in
 
 
 
order to improve margins, particularly in the Consumer Tissue and K-C Professional businesses, which have been hardest hit by inflation.  Meanwhile, we continued to do the right things for the long-term health of our business, driving costs out of the system and stepping up marketing support for our brands.  During the quarter, we also made good use of our cash, boosting the dividend by more than 9 percent and buying back about $200 million of KMB stock.
Review of first quarter sales
The first quarter sales growth of 9.7 percent reflected increased sales volumes of nearly 3 percent, higher net selling prices of about 2 percent and favorable product mix of approximately 1 percent.  As noted above, stronger foreign currencies boosted sales by more than 4 percent.
Sales of products climbed 13.8 percent in the first quarter.  Sales volumes rose 7 percent, while net selling prices and product mix both improved about 1 percent and currency effects added approximately 5 percent to sales.
personal care
Personal care sales in North America went up about 6 percent compared with the first quarter of 2007, driven by increased sales volumes and net selling prices, up approximately 4 percent and 2 percent, respectively.  Sales volumes improved across most categories, paced by double-digit growth for the companys Depend and Poise incontinence care brands and mid-single digit growth for Huggies baby wipes.  In diapers and child care, sales volumes rose about 2 percent in comparison to strong increases in the year-ago quarter.  Child care volumes benefited from continued growth in higher-margin, super premium GoodNites Sleep Boxers and Sleep Shorts.  Selling prices were higher primarily as a result of price increases for diaper and child care products implemented during the first quarter in the U.S.
In Europe, personal care sales were up 8 percent in the quarter, as favorable currency effects boosted sales by about 11 percent.  Increased sales volumes of 1 percent were more than offset by a 3 percent decline in net selling prices and slightly lower product mix.  The volume gain reflects higher sales of Huggies diapers and baby wipes, Pull-Ups training pants and DryNites youth pants across the region.  However, competitive promotional activity in diapers affected net selling prices and also contributed to a 2 percent decline in sales volumes of Huggies diapers in the companys four core markets  U.K., France, Italy and Spain.
In developing and emerging markets (D&E), personal care sales jumped nearly 26 percent, as the company is benefiting from strong product and customer programs in rapidly growing markets.  Sales volumes increased more than 13 percent and the mix of products sold improved about 3 percent, while net selling prices also went up 2 percent.  Stronger foreign currencies benefited sales by approximately 8 percent.  The growth in sales volumes was broad-based, with particular strength throughout most of Latin America and in South Korea, China, Russia, Turkey and Vietnam.
Sales of products were 7.1 percent above the first quarter of 2007.  Although overall sales volumes declined 1 percent versus the prior year, net selling prices and product mix improved by 3
consumer tissue
 
 
 
percent and 1 percent, respectively, and favorable currency exchange rates benefited sales by 4 percent.
In North America, sales of consumer tissue products rose slightly in the first quarter, as an increase in net selling prices of more than 2 percent and favorable product mix of 1 percent were mostly offset by a 3 percent decline in sales volumes.  The decrease in sales volumes was driven primarily by the companys decision to shed certain low margin business as a part of the companys overall focus on improving revenue realization and to support continued growth of Scott bathroom tissue and other higher-margin offerings.  Sales volumes of Kleenex facial tissue were essentially even with the year-ago quarter, as the cold and flu season recovered from the weakness experienced in the fourth quarter of last year.  The increase in net selling prices includes the benefit from price increases for bathroom tissue and paper towels in the U.S. that were successfully implemented mid-quarter.
In Europe, consumer tissue sales rose about 13 percent.  Currency exchange rates strengthened by an average of almost 9 percent, accounting for a majority of the increase.  Sales volumes were up approximately 6 percent, on higher sales of Kleenex facial tissue and Andrex bathroom tissue, partially offset by declines of 1 percent each in net selling prices and product mix.
Consumer tissue sales in developing and emerging markets rose approximately 16 percent.  Net selling prices and product mix improved 8 percent and 1 percent, respectively, while sales volumes were down more than 2 percent.  This reflects the companys strategy to raise prices in response to higher raw materials costs and to shift mix to more differentiated, higher-margin products.  Favorable currency effects added about 9 percent to sales.
Sales of products advanced 9.1 percent compared with the year-ago quarter.  Sales volumes and net selling prices both were approximately 2 percent better than the prior year, while changes in foreign currency rates benefited sales by about 5 percent.  KCP continued to post strong sales volume gains in Latin America and volumes were up 2 percent in North America and 4 percent in Europe, reflecting continued growth of the Kleenex, Scott and Cottonelle washroom brands and Kimtech and WypAll wiper products.  Net selling prices were higher in every region around the world as a result of increases implemented over the past year.
K-C Professional (KCP) & other
Sales of products decreased 1.6 percent in the first quarter.  Net selling prices declined by approximately 2 percent and sales volumes and product mix were both lower by about 1 percent, partially offset by currency benefits of 2 percent.  The volume and price declines were mainly attributable to competitive conditions affecting surgical supplies in North America, along with lower demand for face masks globally due to avian flu preparedness in 2007.  Meanwhile, sales of higher-margin medical devices, particularly Ballard respiratory catheters, continued to generate solid improvement.
health care
Other first quarter operating results
Operating profit was $664 million in the first quarter of 2008, compared with $616 million in 2007.  Excluding net charges for the companys strategic cost reduction plan in both years and related
 
 
 
implementation costs in 2007, adjusted operating profit for the quarter increased 3 percent to $688 million from $669 million in the prior year.  Top-line growth, along with FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) cost savings of about $24 millionand strategic cost reductions of $28 millionenabled the company to more than offset approximately $160 million of cost inflation.  The inflationary increases were driven primarily by higher fiber costs, up $70 million versus the first quarter of 2007, and more than $55 million for raw materials other than fiber, including nonwovens and other oil-based materials, along with about $20 millionof higher energy costs and approximately $15 millionin distribution costs.  Marketing, research and general expenses in the first quarter reflect the higher level of marketing spending, as well as increased expenses to support growth in developing and emerging markets and to further build capabilities in key areas such as customer development.
 
 
 
 
Interest expense for the quarter increased approximately $24 million from the prior year, mainly as a result of new long-term debt issued to fund the companys $2.0 billion accelerated share repurchase program in July, 2007.
The companys effective tax rate in the first quarter was 27.5 percent in 2008 and 20.6 percent in 2007.  Excluding the effects of charges for the companys strategic cost reduction plan in both years, as well as related implementation costs and net effects from synthetic fuel partnerships in 2007, the adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.7 percent in 2008 compared with 28.3 percent in 2007.  The net effect of synthetic fuel partnership activities was a benefit of approximately $7 million in the first quarter of 2007.  Synthetic fuel produced by the partnerships was eligible for tax credits through the end of 2007, at which time the law giving rise to the tax benefits expired.  The partnerships will be dissolved during 2008 at no cost to the company.  Reconciliations of the above effective tax rate calculations are provided in a separate section of this news release.
Kimberly-Clarks share of net income of equity companies in the first quarter decreased to about $43 million from $45 million in 2007, due mainly to lower net income at Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V., where sales growth of about 9 percent was more than offset by significantly higher raw materials costs and an increase in the effective tax rate.
Minority owners share of subsidiaries net income was approximately $36 million in the first quarter of 2008 compared with almost $25 million in the prior year.  The increase was mainly attributable to minority owners share of increased earnings at majority-owned subsidiaries in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East.
Competitive improvement initiatives  update on strategic cost reduction plan
The companys strategic cost reduction plan is part of a comprehensive, multi-year effort announced in
July 2005 to further improve Kimberly-Clarks competitive position.  The plan calls for streamlining manufacturing and administrative operations primarily in North America and Europe, with expected annual savings of at least $350 million by 2009.  These cost savings are allowing the company to invest in
 
 
 
targeted growth opportunities and in key capabilities, including innovation, marketing and customer development.
During the first quarter, the company continued to successfully execute planned cost reduction activities, the most significant of which involved consolidating infant and child care operations in North America, improving the cost structure in Health Care and streamlining administrative operations in North America and Europe.  Savings for the first quarter totaled approximately $28 million, consistent with the companys plan to reduce costs by $75 to $100 million for the full year.
To date, employees have been notified about workforce reductions and other actions at all 23 facilities slated for sale, closure or streamlining as part of the cost reduction plan.  In addition, pretax charges of $844 million (about $590 million after tax), or approximately 95 percent of the plans expected cost, have now been incurred.  The company estimates cumulative charges for implementing the plan, through its completion in 2008, will total $880 to $910 million ($610 to $630 million after tax), of which approximately 35 percent is expected to be paid in cash.
Cash flow and balance sheet
Cash provided by operations in the first quarter decreased to $426 million from $525 million in 2007, primarily because of an increased investment in working capital.  Capital spending for the quarter was $221 million in 2008 compared with $282 million in the prior year.  The company still expects capital spending in 2008 will be in a range of $850 to $950 million.
During the first quarter, the company repurchased approximately 3.1 million shares of its common stock at a cost of about $200 million, in line with the companys target to repurchase $800 million to $1 billion worth of its shares in 2008.
At March 31, 2008, total debt and redeemable preferred securities was $6.7 billion compared with $6.5 billion at the end of 2007.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook, Falk said, Our Global Business Plan is creating sustainable growth and we are confident that we will continue to execute the Plan well and deliver on our commitments going forward.  Building on the momentum of our first quarter performance, we expect solid growth in organic sales over the balance of the year.  Favorable currency effects, at current rates of exchange, should also benefit sales comparisons.  However, we anticipate inflation will continue to put pressure on our margins, particularly in light of recent increases in fiber and oil costs.  Nonetheless, we expect to generate good bottom-line improvement for the full year, as we focus on improving revenue realization and reducing costs.  Meanwhile, we plan to continue to support our growth and further strengthen our competitive position with higher levels of spending for strategic marketing and customer development.
Overall, we remain comfortable that our results in 2008 will be in line with the long-term objectives of our Plan.  Specifically, we expect adjusted earnings per share in 2008 will be in a range of $4.45 to
 
 
 
$4.60 per share, up 5 to 8 percent from $4.25 per share last year.
As for the second quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share will be in a range of $1.08 to $1.11.  This will represent growth of 4 to 7 percent compared with $1.04 per share in 2007, even though were projecting an increase in the effective income tax rate versus both last year and the first quarter of this year equivalent to several cents per share.
Non-GAAP financial measures
This press release and the accompanying tables include the following financial measures that have not been calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP, and are therefore referred to as non-GAAP financial measures:
adjusted earnings and earnings per share
  
adjusted operating profit
  
adjusted effective tax rate
  
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items that are included in the companys earnings, earnings per share, operating profit and effective tax rate calculated in accordance with GAAP. A detailed explanation of each of the adjustments to the comparable GAAP financial measures is given below.  In accordance with the requirements of SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures are attached.
The company provides these non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental information to our GAAP financial measures.  Management and the companys Board of Directors use adjusted earnings, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating profit to (a) evaluate the companys historical and prospective financial performance and its performance relative to its competitors, (b) allocate resources and (c) measure the operational performance of the companys business units and their managers.  Additionally, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the companys Board of Directors uses these non-GAAP financial measures when setting and assessing achievement of incentive compensation goals.  These goals are based, in part, on the companys adjusted earnings per share and improvement in the companys adjusted return on invested capital determined by excluding the charges that are used in calculating these non-GAAP financial measures.
In addition, Kimberly-Clark management believes that investors understanding of the companys performance is enhanced by including these non-GAAP financial measures as a reasonable basis for comparing the companys ongoing results of operations and for understanding the companys effective tax rate.  Many investors are interested in understanding the performance of our businesses by comparing our results from ongoing operations from one period to the next.  By providing the non-GAAP financial measures, together with the reconciliations, we believe we are enhancing investors understanding of our businesses and our results of operations, as well as assisting investors in evaluating how well the company is executing the material changes to our enterprise contemplated by the strategic cost reduction
 
 
 
plan.  Also, many financial analysts who follow our company focus on and publish both historical results and future projections based on non-GAAP financial measures.  We believe that it is in the best interests of our investors for us to provide this information to analysts so that those analysts accurately report the non-GAAP financial information.
We calculate adjusted earnings, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted operating profit and adjusted effective tax rate by excluding from the comparable GAAP measure (i) charges related to our strategic
cost reduction plan for streamlining the companys operations, (ii) certain incremental implementation costs relating to our strategic cost reduction plan, and (iii) the net effect of the companys investment in synthetic fuel partnerships on the companys effective tax rate.  Each of these adjustments and the basis for such adjustments are described below:
These non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures.  There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being
 
 
 
excluded.  The company compensates for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as supplements to the GAAP measures and by providing the reconciliations of the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP financial measures should be read only in conjunction with the companys consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Conference call
A conference call to discuss this news release and other matters of interest to investors and analysts will be held at 9 a.m. (CDT) today.  The conference call will be simultaneously broadcast over the World Wide Web.  Stockholders and others are invited to listen to the live broadcast or a playback, which can be accessed by following the instructions set out in the Investors section of the companys Web site (www.kimberly-clark.com).
About Kimberly-Clark
Kimberly-Clark and its well-known global brands are an indispensable part of life for people in more than 150 countries.  Every day, 1.3 billion people  nearly a quarter of the worlds population  trust K-C brands and the solutions they provide to enhance their health, hygiene and well-being.  With brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend, Kimberly-Clark holds No. 1 or No. 2 share positions in more than 80 countries.  To keep up with the latest K-C news and to learn more about the companys 136-year history of innovation, visit www.kimberly-clark.com.
Copies of Kimberly-Clarks Annual Report to Stockholders and its proxy statements and other SEC filings, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, are made available free of charge on the companys Web site on the same day they are filed with the SEC.  To view these filings, visit the Investors section of the companys Web site.
Certain matters contained in this news release concerning the business outlook, including new product introductions, cost savings, changes in finished product selling prices, anticipated costs and benefits related to the strategic cost reduction plan, anticipated financial and operating results, strategies, contingencies and anticipated transactions of the company constitute forward-looking statements and are based upon managements expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting the company.  There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that the companys results will be as estimated.  For a description of certain factors that could cause the companys future results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements, see Item 1A of the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 entitled Risk Factors.
 
 
 
 
 
N.M.  Not meaningful
Unaudited
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
1. Charges for the Strategic Cost Reductions are included in the Consolidated Income Statement as follows:
In addition, charges of $12.2 million ($7.7 million after tax) in 2007 for the related implementation costs are included in marketing, research and general expenses.
2.  Other Information:
Unaudited
 
 
 
Supplemental Financial Information:
Unaudited
 
 
 
 
Description of Business Segments
The Corporation is organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into four reportable global business segments:  Personal Care; Consumer Tissue; K-C Professional & Other; and Health Care. The reportable segments were determined in accordance with how the Corporations executive managers develop and execute the Corporations global strategies to drive growth and profitability of the Corporations worldwide Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, K-C Professional & Other, and Health Care operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management, and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses. Segment management is evaluated on several factors, including operating profit. Segment operating profit excludes other income and (expense), net; income and expense not associated with the business segments; and the costs of corporate decisions related to the Strategic Cost Reductions.  Corporate & Other includes the costs related to the Strategic Cost Reductions.
 
The principal sources of revenue in each of our global business segments are described below.
 
The Personal Care segment manufactures and markets disposable diapers, training and youth pants and swimpants; baby wipes; feminine and incontinence care products; and related products. Products in this segment are primarily for household use and are sold under a variety of brand names, including Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, Kotex, Lightdays, Depend, Poise and other brand names.
 
The Consumer Tissue segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products for household use. Products in this segment are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Hakle, Page and other brand names.
 
The K-C Professional & Other segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins, wipers and a range of safety products for the away-from-home marketplace. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech, Kleenguard and Kimcare brand names.
The Health Care segment manufactures and markets disposable health care products such as surgical gowns, drapes, infection control products, sterilization wrap, face masks, exam gloves, respiratory products and other disposable medical products.  Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Ballard and other brand names.
Unaudited
 
 
 
N.M.  Not meaningful
Unaudited
 
 
 
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES VERSUS PRIOR YEAR
Mix/Other includes rounding.
(1)
 
 
 
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION SCHEDULES
 
The tables on the following pages present the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.
EARNINGS SUMMARY:
OPERATING PROFIT SUMMARY:
 
 
 
 
Effective Income Tax Rate Reconciliation  Adjustments and Synthetic Fuel Partnership Activities:
(1)
Charges for Strategic Cost Reductions in 2008 and Strategic Cost Reductions and related implementation costs in 2007.
(1)     
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2008
 
Estimated Full-Year 2008 Diluted Earnings Per Share:
Estimated Second Quarter 2008 Diluted Earnings Per Share:
 
 
 



