FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20090902160225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.05 Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
On August 31, 2009, Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the "Corporation") adopted a revised Code of Conduct ("Code") applicable to its directors and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. The Code was revised, among other things, to (1) enhance the overall readability and understanding of the Code, (2) add learning aids such as questions and answers, examples and conduct tips, (3) update its visual appeal and tone and (4) enhance the Code's language to clarify and emphasize key compliance areas. The adoption of the revised Code did not result in any waiver, explicit or implicit, of any provision of the Corporation's previous Code.
The foregoing summary of the revised Code does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the revised Code, which is attached as Exhibit No. (14)a to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. The revised Code has been posted on the Investors section of the Corporation's website at .
www.kimberly-clark.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit No. (14)a      Kimberly-Clark Corporation Code of Conduct.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit No. (14)a      Kimberly-Clark Corporation Code of Conduct.

Exhibit No. (14)a
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


