FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20090304164840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
(e)        On February 26, 2009, the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Corporation) established the objectives for 2009 cash incentive payments payable in 2010 to the executive officers of the Corporation under the Corporations Executive Officer Achievement Award Plan (the Plan). The Plan was approved by the Corporations stockholders on April 25, 2002, and filed as Exhibit No. 10(d) to the Corporations Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Depending on actual performance in 2009 against the financial and non-financial goals, 2009 incentive payments could range from zero to 200 percent of the named executive officers target payments. The Committee sets the appropriate split among corporate key financial goals, other corporate financial and non-financial performance goals, and business unit or staff function objectives each year.
Incentive payments for 2009 will be based on the Committees judgment regarding our corporate and the executive officers performance in 2009 against those objectives. The corporate key financial goals for 2009 are designed to permit a continued focus on executing our long-term Global Business Plan objectives and include achieving adjusted earnings per share, net sales and adjusted return on invested capital goals.
The Committee also established other corporate financial and non-financial goals for 2009.  These goals, intended to further align compensation with achieving our Global Business Plan, include:
 
      Consolidated cash provided by operations.
 
      Consolidated gross margin improvement.
 
      Cost savings efforts and working capital improvement.
 
      Driving margin-enhancing innovation.
 
      Brand equity attribute improvement in key categories and markets.
 
      Diversity and inclusion efforts.
           Goals also have been established for each named executive officer, other than our Chief Executive Officer, relating to his specific staff function or business unit.
Additionally, the Committee has determined that dividend equivalents will not be paid on unvested performance-based restricted share units granted to the named executive officers under the Corporations 2001 Equity Participation Plan in February 2009 and thereafter; instead, dividend equivalents on these units will be accumulated and paid after the performance-based restricted share units vest, based on the actual number of shares that vest.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
.
Exhibit No. (10)n.  Form of Award Agreement
for Performance Restricted Stock Unit
 
under
the
2001 Equity Participation Plan.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No. (10)n.  Form of Award Agreement
for Performance Restricted Stock Unit
under
the
2001 Equity Participation Plan.
 
 
 

This Award, granted on the date approved by the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, and as reflected on the Merrill Lynch Benefits OnLine site, or any successor system, via the Grant Summary screen as the Grant Date, by Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation"), is subject to the terms and conditions of the 2001 Equity Participation Plan (the Plan) and the Award Agreement, including any country-specific terms contained in Appendix A to this Award Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Corporation has adopted the Plan to encourage those employees who materially contribute, by managerial, scientific or other innovative means, to the success of the Corporation or of an Affiliate, to acquire an ownership interest in the Corporation, thereby increasing their motivation for and interest in the Corporation's or the Affiliate's long-term success;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
2.           .
Transferability Restrictions
 
 
 
During each year in the Restricted Period, the Participant will not be paid dividend equivalents on the unvested PRSUs but the Participant will receive a credit equal to dividends declared on the Corporations Common Stock which will be reinvested in additional PRSUs at the then fair market value of the Corporations Common Stock on the date dividends are paid, and the additional PRSUs will be accumulated and paid if and when the PRSUs vest, based on the actual number of PRSUs that vestIn the case of dividends paid in property other than cash, the amount of the dividend shall be deemed to be the fair market value of the property at the time of the payment of the dividend, as determined in good faith by the Corporation.  The Corporation shall not be required to segregate any cash or other property of the Corporation.
.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I understand and acknowledge the following conditions with respect to the Award granted to me under Kimberly-Clark Corporations 2001 Equity Participation Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion and Acceptance
I accept this grant via electronic signature by clicking the "Accept" icon and certify that I have read, understand and agree to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the provisions of the applicable Award Agreement and all other applicable documents (including any country-specific terms applicable to my grant). I hereby authorize my Employer to furnish the Corporation (and any agent administering the Plan or providing recordkeeping services) with such information and data as it shall request in order to facilitate the grant of Awards and enable administration of the Plan and I understand that such information shall be used only as long and to the extent necessary to administer my participation in the Plan. I agree that my participation in the Plan and the Awards granted to me under the Plan will be governed solely by provisions of U.S. law.
1
 
 
 
 
This Appendix A includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Award granted to the Participant under the Plan if the Participant resides in one of the countries listed below.  Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Award Agreement.
The Appendix A also includes information regarding exchange controls and certain other issues of which the Participant should be aware with respect to the Participants participation in the Plan.  The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of February 2009.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently.  As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that the Participant not rely on the information noted herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of the Participants participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at vesting of the Award or the subsequent sale of the shares or receipt of any dividends.
In addition, the information is general in nature and may not apply to the Participants particular situation, and the Corporation is not in a position to assure the Participant of any particular result.  Accordingly, the Participant is advised to seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in the Participants country may apply to the Participants situation.
Finally, if the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to the Participant.
AUSTRALIA
Securities Law Notice
If the Participant acquires shares of the Corporations common stock pursuant to this Award and the Participant offers his or her shares of the Corporations common stock for sale to a person or entity resident in Australia, the offer may be subject to disclosure requirements under Australian law.  
The Participant should obtain legal advice on his or her disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.
Award Payable Only in Shares
Notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan, or any provision in the Award Agreement to the contrary, Awards granted to Participants in Australia shall be paid in shares of the Corporations common stock only and do not provide any right for Participant to receive a cash payment.
 
 
 
 
CANADA
Award Payable Only in Shares
Notwithstanding any discretion contained in the Plan, or any provision in the Award Agreement to the contrary, Awards granted to Participants in Canada shall be paid in shares of the Corporations Common Stock only and do not provide any right for Participant to receive a cash payment.
Securities Law Notice
The Participant is permitted to sell shares acquired through the Plan through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any, provided the resale of shares acquired under the Plan takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the shares are listed.  The Corporations shares are currently listed on New York Stock Exchange.
For Awards Granted to Participants in Quebec:  Language Consent
The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Award Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English.
Les parties reconnaissent avoir exig la rdaction en anglais de la convention, ainsi que de tous documents excuts, avis donns et procdures judiciaries intentes, directement ou indirectement, relativement  ou suite  la prsente convention.
Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information
The Participant hereby authorizes the Corporation and the Corporations representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  The Participant further authorizes the Corporation, any parent, subsidiary or Affiliate and the plan administrators to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  The Participant further authorizes the Corporation and any parent, subsidiary or Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in the Participants employee file.
CHINA
Vesting and Payment of Award Only After Exchange Control Approval
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Award Agreement, due to regulatory requirements in Chinathis Award, including any accrued dividend equivalents, shall be subject to forfeiture and no payment may be delivered under this Award, in whole or in part, until the exchange control consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained from the Chinese Central Bank and State Administration of Foreign Exchange or any other regulatory body as shall be necessary as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting, vesting or exercisability of the Award.
,
 
 
 
 
Exchange Control Notice
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Award Agreement, due to regulatory requirements in China, the Corporation reserves the right to force the Participant to immediately sell all of the shares upon vesting of the Award, upon notice to the Participant.
 
The Participant understands and agrees that due to exchange control laws in China, the Participant will be required to immediately repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of shares to China.  The Participant further understands that such repatriation of the cash proceeds may need to be effected through a special exchange control account established by the Corporation or a parent, subsidiary or Affiliate, and the Participant hereby consents and agrees that the cash proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to the Participant.  In addition, the Participant understands and agrees that the Corporation and its subsidiaries and Affiliates assume no liability for any currency fluctuations or delays in delivery of proceeds from the sale of shares.
FRANCE
 
Consent to Receive Information in English
 
By accepting the Award Agreement providing for the terms and conditions of the Participants option grant, the Participant confirms having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and this Award Agreement) which were provided in English language.  The Participant accepts the terms of those documents accordingly.
 
En acceptant le Contrat d'Attribution dcrivant les termes et conditions
de lattribution doptions, le participant confirme ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs  cette attribution (le Plan U.S. et ce
Contrat d'Attribution
) qui ont t communiqus en langue anglaise.
Le participant accepte les termes en connaissance de cause.
 
HONG KONG
 
Securities Law Notice
 
The offer of the option and the shares to be issued upon vesting are available only to eligible employees of the Corporation or its Affiliates participating in the Plan and is not a public offer of securities.  The Participant should be aware that the contents of this Award Agreement have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong.  The Participant is advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer.  If the Participant is in any doubt about any of the contents of the Award Agreement or the Plan, the Participant should obtain independent professional advice.
 
Sale of Shares
 
In the event the Award vests within six months of the date of grant, the Participant agrees that he or she will not dispose of the shares acquired prior to the six-month anniversary of the date of grant.
 
 
 
 
Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance Alert
 
The Corporation specifically intends that neither the Award nor the Plan will be an occupational retirement scheme for purposes of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance (
ORSO).
INDIA
Fringe Benefit Tax
By accepting this option and participating in the Plan, the Participant consents and agrees to assume any and all liability for fringe benefit tax that may be payable by the Participant or the Employer in connection with the Planupon request of the Corporation and at the Corporations sole discretion.  The Participant understands that the grant of the Award and participation in the Plan is contingent upon his or her agreement to assume liability for fringe benefit tax payable on the shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan if the Corporation so requests.
 
Further, by accepting this Award and participating in the Plan, the Participant agrees that the Corporation and/or the Employer may collect fringe benefit tax from the Participant by any of the means set forth in the section of the Award Agreement or any other reasonable method established by the Corporation.  The Participant also agrees to execute any other consents or elections required to accomplish the foregoing, promptly upon request of the Corporation.
Acknowledgment of Conditions
ITALY
Data Privacy Notice and Consent.
This provision replaces in its entirety the data privacy section in the Award Agreement:
The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use, processing and transfer, in electronic or other form, of his or her personal data as described in this section of this Appendix A by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Corporation and any Affiliate for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering, and managing the Participants participation in the Plan.
The Participant understands that the Employer, the Corporation and any Affiliate hold certain personal information about him or her, including, but not limited to, the Participants name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Common Stock or directorships held in the Corporation or any Affiliate, details of all Awards, or any other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participants favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, managing and administering the Plan (Data).
The Participant also understands that providing the Corporation with Data is necessary for the performance of the Plan and that his or her refusal to provide such Data would make it impossible for the Corporation to perform its contractual obligations and may affect the Participants ability to participate in the Plan.  The Controller of personal data processing is Kimberly-Clark Corporation  with registered offices at 351 Phelps Drive,
 
 
 
 
Irving, Texas  75038, United States of America, and, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, its representative in Italy is Kimberly-Clark s.r.l. at Via Della Rocca, 49, Torino, Italy.
The Participant understands that Data will not be publicized, but it may be transferred to banks, other financial institutions, or brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan.  The Participant understands that Data may also be transferred to the Corporations independent registered public accounting firm.  The Participant further understand that the Corporation and/or any Affiliate  will transfer Data among themselves as necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participants participation in the Plan, and that the Corporation and/or any Affiliate may each further transfer Data to third parties assisting the Corporation in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer of Data to a broker or other third party with whom the Participant may elect to deposit any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.  Such recipients may receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing the Participants participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that these recipients may be located in or outside the European Economic Area, such as in the United States or elsewhere.  Should the Corporation exercise its discretion in suspending all necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan, it will delete Data as soon as it has completed all the necessary legal obligations connected with the management and administration of the Plan.
The Participant understands that Data processing related to the purposes specified above shall take place under automated or non-automated conditions, anonymously when possible, that comply with the purposes for which Data is collected and with confidentiality and security provisions as set forth by applicable laws and regulations, with specific reference to Legislative Decree no. 196/2003.
The processing activity, including communication, the transfer of Data abroad, including outside of the European Economic Area, as herein specified and pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, does not require the Participants consent thereto as the processing is necessary to performance of contractual obligations related to implementation, administration, and management of the Plan.  The Participant understands that, pursuant to Section 7 of the Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, he or she has the right to, including but not limited to, access, delete, update, correct, or terminate, for legitimate reason, the Data processing.  Furthermore, the Participant is aware that Data will not be used for direct marketing purposes.  In addition, Data provided can be reviewed and questions or complaints can be addressed by contacting the Participants local human resources representative.
Plan Document Acknowledgment
In accepting the grant of this Award, the Participant acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan and the Award Agreement and has reviewed the Plan and the Award Agreement, including this Appendix A, in their entirety and fully understands and accepts all provisions of the Plan and the Award Agreement, including this Appendix A.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Participant acknowledges that he or she has read and specifically and expressly approves the following sections of the Award Agreement: Section 2(6) on Payment of Withholding Taxes; Section 5 on No Right of Continued Employment; Section 8 on Delaware Law to Govern; the section on Acknowledgment of Conditions; and the Data Privacy Notice and Consent section included in this Appendix A.
MALAYSIA
 
Insider Trading Notification
 
The Participant should be aware of the Malaysian insider trading rules, which may impact the Participant
s acquisition or disposal of shares acquired under the Plan.  Under Malaysian insider trading rules, the Participant is prohibited from acquiring or selling shares or rights to shares (
e.g.
, an Award) when in possession of information that is not generally available and that the Participant knows or should know will have a material effect on the price of shares once such information is generally available.
 
Director Notification Obligation
 
If the Participant is a director of the Corporation
s Malaysian Affiliate, the Participant is subject to certain notification requirements under the Malaysian Companies Act.  Among these requirements is an obligation to notify the Malaysian Affiliate in writing when the Participant receives or disposes of an interest (
e.g.
, an option or shares) in the Corporation or any related company.  Such notifications must be made within 14 days of receiving or disposing of any interest in the Corporation or any related company.
MEXICO
Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgment
In accepting the grant of this Award, the Participant expressly recognizes that Kimberly-Clark Corporation, with registered offices at 351 Phelps Drive, Irving, Texas  75038, United States of America, is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that the Participants participation in the Plan and acquisition of shares of Common Stock do not constitute an employment relationship between the Participant and the Corporation since the Participant is participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and his or her sole Employer is Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  Based on the foregoing, the Participant expressly recognizes that the Plan and the benefits that he or she may derive from participating in the Plan do not establish any rights between the Participant and the Employer, Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. and do not form part of the employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., and any modification of the Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of the Participants employment.
The Participant further understands that his or her participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary decision of the Corporation; therefore, Kimberly-Clark Corporation reserves the absolute right to amend and/or discontinue the Participants participation at any time without any liability to the Participant.
Finally, the Participant hereby declares that he or she does not reserve to him- or herself any action or right to bring any claim against Kimberly-Clark Corporation for any compensation or
 
 
 
 
 
 
damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived under the Plan, and the Participant therefore grants a full and broad release to the Corporation, its Affiliates, branches, representation offices, its shareholders, officers, agents, or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.
Poltica Laboral y Reconocimiento/Aceptacin
Al aceptar el otorgamiento de este Premio, el Empleado expresamente reconoce que Kimberly-Clark Corporation con oficinas registradas en 351 Phelps Drive, Irving, Texas  75038, U.S.A., es la nica responsable por la administracin del Plan y que la participacin del Empleado en el Plan y en su caso la adquisicin de las Opciones de Compra de Acciones o Acciones no constituyen ni podrn interpretarse como una relacin de trabajo entre el Empleado y Kimberly-Clark Corporation, ya que el Empleado participa en el Plan en un marco totalmente comercial y su nico Patrn lo es Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., con domicilio en Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico.  Derivado de lo anterior, el Empleado expresamente reconoce que el Plan y los beneficios que pudieran derivar de la participacin en el Plan no establecen derecho alguno entre el Empleado y el Patrn, Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. y no forma parte de las condiciones de trabajo y/o las prestaciones otorgadas por Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. y que cualquier modificacin al Plan o su terminacin no constituye un cambio o impedimento de los trminos y condiciones de la relacin de trabajo del Empleado.
Asimismo, el Empleado reconoce que su participacin en el Plan es resultado de una decisin unilateral y discrecional de Kimberly-Clark Corporation por lo tanto, Kimberly-Clark Corporation se reserva el absoluto derecho de modificar y/o terminar la participacin del Empleado en cualquier momento y sin responsabilidad alguna frente el Empleado.
Finalmente, el Empleado por este medio declara que no se reserva derecho o accin alguna que ejercitar en contra de Kimberly-Clark Corporation por cualquier compensacin o dao en relacin con las disposiciones del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del Plan y por lo tanto, el Empleado otorga el ms amplio finiquito que en derecho proceda a Kimberly-Clark Corporation , sus afiliadas, subsidiarias, oficinas de representacin, sus accionistas, funcionarios, agentes o representantes legales en relacin con cualquier demanda que pudiera surgir.
NETHERLANDS
 
Consent to Comply with Dutch Securities Law
 
The Participant has been granted Awards under the Plan, pursuant to which the Participant may acquire shares.  Participants who are residents of the Netherlands should be aware of the Dutch insider trading rules, which may impact the sale of such shares.  In particular, the Participant may be prohibited from effecting certain share transactions if the Participant has insider information regarding the Corporation.
 
Below is a discussion of the applicable restrictions.  The Participant is advised to read the discussion carefully to determine whether the insider rules apply to the Participant.  If it is uncertain whether the insider rules apply, the Corporation recommends that the Participant consult with his or her personal legal advisor.  Please note that the Corporation cannot be held liable if the Participant violates the Dutch insider rules.  The Participant is responsible for ensuring compliance with these rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
By entering into the Award Agreement and participating in the Plan, the Participant acknowledges having read and understood the notification below and acknowledges that it is his or her own responsibility to comply with the Dutch insider trading rules, as discussed herein.
 
Prohibition Against Insider Trading
 
Dutch securities laws prohibit insider trading.  Under Article 46 of the Act on the Supervision of the Securities Trade 1995, anyone who has inside information related to the Corporation is prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in or from the Netherlands.  Inside information is knowledge of a detail concerning the issuer to which the securities relate that is not public and which, if published, would reasonably be expected to affect the share price, regardless of the actual effect on the price.  The insider could be any employee of the Corporation or its Dutch Affiliate who has inside information as described above.
 
Given the broad scope of the definition of inside information, certain employees of the Corporation working at its Dutch Affiliate may have inside information and thus, would be prohibited from effectuating a transaction in securities in the Netherlands at a time when he or she had such inside information.
RUSSIA
Securities Law Notice
This Award Agreement, the Plan and all other materials the Participant may receive regarding participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia.  The issuance of shares of Common Stock under the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia and hence the shares described in any Plan-related documents may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.
Please note that, under the Russian law, the Participant is not permitted to sell the Corporations shares directly to other Russian individuals and the Participant is not permitted to bring share certificates into Russia.  All shares issued upon vesting of the Award will be maintained on the Participants behalf in the United States.
SOUTH AFRICA
Tax Acknowledgment
By accepting the Award, the Participant agrees to notify the Employer of the amount of any gain realized upon vesting of the Award.  If the Participant fails to advise the Employer of the gain realized upon vesting, the Participant may be liable for a fine.  The Participant will be responsible for paying any difference between the actual tax liability and the amount withheld.
 
 
 
 
 
SPAIN
Labor Law Acknowledgment
By accepting the Award, the Participant acknowledges that he or she understands and agrees to participation in the Plan and that he or she has received a copy of the Plan.
The Participant understands that the Corporation has unilaterally, gratuitously and discretionally decided to grant Awards under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Corporation or its Affiliates throughout the world.  The decision is a limited decision that is entered into upon the express assumption and condition that any grant will not economically or otherwise bind the Corporation or any of its Affiliates on an ongoing basis.  Consequently, the Participant understands that any grant is given on the assumption and condition that it shall not become a part of any employment contract (either with the Corporation or any of its Affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever.  Further, the Participant understands and freely accepts that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and discretionary grant since the future value of the Award and the underlying shares is unknown and unpredictable.  In addition, the Participant understands that this grant would not be made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus,  the Participant understands, acknowledges and freely accepts that should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for any reason, then the Award shall be null and void.
 
UNITED KINGDOM
Tax Acknowledgment
The following information supplements the information regarding Tax-Related Items in the Acknowledgment of Conditions section of the Award Agreement:
If payment or withholding of the income tax due is not made within 90 days of the event giving rise to the Tax-Related Items or such other period specified in section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the Due Date), the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items shall constitute a loan owed by the Participant to the Employer, effective on the Due Date.  The Participant agrees that the loan will bear interest at the then-current Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) official rate; it will be immediately due and repayable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is an officer or executive director (as within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), the terms of this provision will not apply to the Participant.  In the event that the Participant is an officer or director, as defined above, and Tax-Related Items are not collected from or paid by the Participant by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected Tax-Related Items may constitute a benefit to the Participant on which additional income tax and National Insurance Contributions may be payable.   The Participant acknowledges the Corporation or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to in the Award Agreement.  The Participant authorizes the Corporation to withhold the transfer of any shares unless and until the loan is repaid in full.
 
 
 
 
 
VIETNAM
Exchange Control Notice
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Award Agreement, due to regulatory requirements in Vietnam, the Corporation reserves the right to force the Participant to immediately sell all of the shares upon vesting of the Award, upon notice to the Participant.
 
The Participant understands and agrees that due to exchange control laws in Vietnam, the Participant will be required to immediately repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of shares to Vietnam.   The Participant further understand that such repatriation of the cash proceeds may need to be effected through a special exchange control account established by the Corporation or a parent, subsidiary or Affiliate, and the Participant hereby consents and agrees that the cash proceeds may be transferred to such special account prior to being delivered to the Participant.
 
 
 



