FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20100617155236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
 
(d)      On June 16, 2010, the Board of Directors of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Corporation) elected Nancy J. Karch to the Board of Directors, effective immediately. Ms. Karch is a retired Director of McKinsey & Co.  Ms. Karch also was appointed to the Audit Committee of the Corporations Board of Directors.  Ms. Karch will participate in the Corporations Outside Director Compensation Plan.
 
            A copy of the news release announcing the election of Ms. Karch to the Corporations Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d)      Exhibits
            Exhibit 99.1     News release issued by Kimberly-Clark Corporation on June 17, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                                                 &# 160;                                                           
Exhibit 99.1
 
Stephanie Anderson Forest
972-281-1389
stephanie.a.forest@kcc.com
 
 
 
DALLAS, TX (June 17, 2010)  Kimberly-Clark Corporation (NYSE: KMB) today announced that Nancy J. Karch, Director Emeritus of McKinsey & Company, was elected to its board of directors on June 16.
Ms. Karch, 62, served with McKinsey & Company, an independent management consulting firm, for 26 years until her retirement in 2000. She held several progressive leadership positions including managing partner of the Retail and Consumer Industries sector and managing partner of the companys southeast operations. Ms. Karch is Director Emeritus of McKinseys Stamford, Connecticut office, and serves on the board of directors for Genworth Financial, Inc., Liz Claiborne, Inc., MasterCard Worldwide, and The Corporate Executive Board. She also serves on the executive committee of the Westchester Land Trust and on the board of Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, NY.
Nancy is a great addition to our board given her strong corporate governance background with leading global companies, said Craig Sullivan, chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Kimberly-Clarks board of directors and retired chairman and chief executive officer of The Clorox Company.
Thomas J. Falk, chairman and chief executive officer of Kimberly-Clark said, Nancy is a recognized expert in general merchandise retailing, and has a strong background in corporate strategy, marketing and consumer packaged goods. This experience, combined with her management consulting background, will greatly benefit our company.
Ms. Karch earned her Masters in Business Administration from Harvard University and a Masters in Mathematics from Northeastern University. She received her bachelors degree in Mathematics from Cornell University.
About Kimberly-Clark
Kimberly-Clark and its well-known global brands are an indispensable part of life for people in more than 150 countries.  Every day, 1.3 billion people - nearly a quarter of the world's population - trust K-C brands and the solutions they provide to enhance their health, hygiene and well-being. With brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend, Kimberly-Clark holds No. 1 or No. 2 share positions in more than 80 countries.  To keep up with the latest K-C news and to learn more about the company's 138-year history of innovation, visit .
www.kimberly-clark.com
 
 
 


