FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20101026092236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Corporation), dated October 26, 2010, reporting the Corporations results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2010.
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
Exhibit No. 99.1. Press release issued by Kimberly-Clark Corporation on October 26, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Kay Jackson
972-281-1486
kay.jackson@kcc.com
DALLAS, October 26, 2010Kimberly-Clark Corporation (NYSE: KMB) today reported that net sales in the third quarter of 2010 increased 1.3 percent to $5.0 billion.  Organic sales rose 1 percent, driven by higher sales volumes of 1 percent, while net selling prices were even with year-ago levels.  The
I-Flow Corporation acquisition completed in 2009 added an additional point of sales growth, while changes in foreign currency rates reduced sales by 1 percent.  The growth in organic sales volumes was highlighted by a 5 percent gain for the companys personal care business, with broad-based strength in most regions of the world.  However, volumes declined in the companys K-C Professional business in a challenging economic environment, and in Kimberly-Clarks operations in Venezuela.
      Diluted net income per share for the quarter was $1.14 compared with all-time record results of $1.40 in 2009.  Although performance benefited from organic top-line volumegrowth and significant cost savings, bottom-line results declined, primarily due to cost inflation of $265 million.  Meanwhile, the company continued to invest to support its brands and future growth opportunities, as both strategic marketing and research and development spending increased faster than sales in the quarter.
 
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas J. Falk said, We continue to execute our Global Business Plan strategies in a difficult environment.  We leveraged innovation and targeted growth initiatives to deliver excellent volume performance in Personal Care, in most of K-C International and in higher-margin portions of Health Care and K-C Professional.  Our financial and cost discipline led to another quarter of significant cost savings and shareholder-friendly deployment of cash flow.  Finally, we continued to invest for the future, as we increased investment in strategic marketing and innovation again in the third quarter.  On the other hand, the challenging business environment weighed on our bottom-line results more than we pr eviously expected, with relatively soft market demand, cost inflation and slightly higher competitive spending.  That said, Im encouraged with our market positions and believe that we are doing the right things for the long-term success of our brands and our company.
 
 
- 2 -
Review of third quarter sales by business segment
     Sales of products increased 2.4 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009.  Sales volumes rose 5 percent, while changes in net selling prices, product mix and currency rates each reduced sales by approximately 1 percent.
personal care
     Personal care sales in North America increased 4 percent versus the third quarter of 2009.  Sales volumes were up more than 5 percent and changes in currency rates provided a slight benefit to sales.  On the other hand, net selling prices fell about 1 percent, driven by a planned increase in promotional activity, and changes in product mix reduced sales by approximately 1 percent.  Feminine care sales volumes grew at a double-digit rate for the third consecutive quarter as a result of the U by Kotex line extension.  Adult care volumes also increased double-digits, with benefits from recent innovation on the Poise and Depend brands and supporting marketing campaigns.  Child care volumes increased 6 percen t in conjunction with market share gains.  Huggies diaper volumes were up 1 percent and baby wipe volumes were even with the prior-year.
     In Europe, personal care sales fell 5 percent in the quarter, including a negative currency effect of 9 percent.  Sales volumes were up 6 percent, with mid-single digit growth in Huggies diapers and strong performance in baby wipes and child care, while changes in net selling prices reduced sales by 2 percent.
     In K-Cs international operations in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa, personal care sales increased 4 percent.  Sales volumes were up 6 percent, spurred by strong growth in China and most of Latin America, while volumes fell significantly in Venezuela in a difficult foreign currency exchange environment.  Overall net selling prices decreased 1 percent, as modest declines in several markets were mostly offset by increases in Venezuela.  Changes in currency rates reduced sales by 1 percent.
     Sales of products increased 1.1 percent in the third quarter.  Revenue realization strategies led to increased net selling prices of 2 percent and improved product mix of 1 percent, while changes in currency rates reduced sales 2 percent.  Sales volumes were even with year-ago levels.
consumer tissue
     In North America, sales of consumer tissue products increased 2 percent compared to the year-ago period.  Changes in product mix, including a shift to premium bathroom tissue products, benefited sales by 2 percent, and sales volumes advanced 1 percent.  On the other hand, net selling prices were off 1 percent, as increased promotional activity was mostly offset by the benefit from sheet count reductions taken earlier in the year.  The increased volumes included 4 percent growth in bathroom tissue, led by improved performance in Cottonelle, and benefits from the Kleenex Hand Towel innovation launched in the first quarter of 2010.  Despite improved market shares, Kleenex facial tissue volumes were even with year-ago , reflecting overall category weakness.  Paper towel volumes fell at a double-digit rate and continue to be impacted by consumer trade-down.
 
 
- 3 -
     In Europe, consumer tissue sales declined 5 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009, including unfavorable currency effects of 8 percent.  Net selling prices improved about 4 percent in response to input cost inflation, while sales volumes and product mix were essentially even with the year-ago period.  In K-Cs international operations in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa, consumer tissue sales increased 5 percent.  Net selling prices increased 6 percent, with improvements in Asia and Latin America, and product mix benefited sales by 1 percent.  Sales volumes fell 2 percent due to declines in Venezuela.
     Sales of products decreased 3.0 percent compared with the third quarter of 2009.  Sales volumes fell 3 percent, reflecting the challenging economic environment, and changes in currency rates reduced sales 2 percent.  On the other hand, net selling prices and product mix each increased 1 percent, reflecting the companys continued focus on increasing net realized revenue.
K-C Professional (KCP) & other
     In North America, KCP sales decreased 1 percent.  Sales volumes were down 3 percent, while net selling prices rose more than 1 percent and currency rates were slightly favorable.  Washroom product volumes declined as high unemployment and office vacancy levels continued to impact demand, while high-margin wiper and safety product volumes grew at a solid rate.
     In Europe, KCPs sales fell 12 percent, including a negative currency effect of 8 percent and a 4 percent decline in sales volumes.  In K-Cs international operations in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa, KCPs sales increased 6 percent.  Net selling prices rose 3 percent and sales volumes advanced 2 percent, with continued gains in Asia.  Changes in product mix benefited sales by 1 percent.
     Sales of products increased 4.6 percent in the third quarter.  The acquisition of I-Flow Corporation benefited sales by 11 percent, while organic sales volumes declined 4 percent and net selling prices fell 2 percent.  The organic volume comparison was adversely affected by approximately 6 points due to increased demand in 2009 for face masks as a result of the H1N1 flu virus.  In addition, overall supply volumes in North America this year were impacted by a modest slowdown in market demand.  Meanwhile, organic sales volumes for medical devices rose 9 percent globally in the quarter and supply volumes in Europe advanced at a mid-single digit rate.
health care
Other third quarter operating results
     Operating profit was $698 million in the third quarter of 2010, down 20 percent from $871 million in 2009.  In addition to the effect of higher net sales, there were a number of other significant factors affecting year-over-year operating profit comparisons.  Cost savings in the quarter from the companys FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) program totaled approximately $95 million.  Operating profit comparisons were aided by a $12 million charge for severance and related costs in the year-ago period to streamline the companys organization structure, along with benefits of approximately
 
 
- 4 -
$10 million in the current quarter from the initiative.Pension expense fell by about $20 million, as expected, with a majority of the decrease reflected in cost of sales.  Meanwhile, inflation in key cost inputs amounted to about $265 million overall versus 2009, including $170 million in higher fiber costs, $90 million for raw materials other than fiber, primarily polymer resin and other oil-based materials, and $5 million in distribution costs.  Lower production volumes as a result of production curtailment to manage inventory levels adversely affected third quarter operating profit comparisons by approximately $20 million.Stra tegic marketing increased $10 million and research and development spending advanced by a similar amount.  General expenses were higher than year-ago levels, driven by the I-Flow acquisition, activity to support growth in K-C International and low overhead spending last year.
 
 
     The companys effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2010 was 30.3 percent.  That was in line with the companys full-year guidance for an adjusted rate of 29 to 31 percent, which excludes the effects of the first quarter 2010 charge for the balance sheet remeasurement in Venezuela described below.  Last years third quarter effective tax rate was 29.6 percent.
     Kimberly-Clarks share of net income of equity companies in the third quarter of 2010 was $40 million, even with year-ago results.  Higher earnings at Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V., spurred by a mid-single digit increase in organic sales, were essentially offset by modestly lower results at other equity affiliates.
     Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $20 million in the third quarter of 2010 compared with $29 million in the prior year.  The decrease was primarily due to lower earnings at majority-owned subsidiaries in Asia and the Middle East.
Cash flow and balance sheet
     Cash provided by operations in the third quarter of 2010 totaled $745 million compared to $791 million in the prior year.  The decrease was driven by lower cash earnings and a smaller level of improvement in working capitalcompared to the prior year, mostly offset by lower pension plan contributions.  Third quarter contributions to the companys defined benefit pension plans totaled about $2 million in 2010 versus $223 million in 2009.
 
     Capital spending for the quarter was $248 million compared with $167 million in 2009.  The company now expects that full-year spending will be between $900 million and $1 billion, down slightly from the previous plan for spending at the low end, or potentially slightly below, the target range of $1.0 to $1.1 billion.  During the third quarter, the company repurchased approximately 3.1 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $200 million, bringing repurchases for the first nine months of the year to approximately $700 million.  Total debt and redeemable securities was $6.5 billion at September 30, 2010, essentially even with the end of 2009.
 
 
- 5 -
Year-to-date results
For the first nine months of 2010, sales of $14.7 billion increased 3.8 percent, including a favorable currency benefit of 1 percent.  Organic sales rose 2 percent, driven by higher net selling prices of 1 percent and increased sales volumes of approximately 1 percent, while the combined impact of the
     
 I-Flow Corporation and Jackson Safety acquisitions completed in 2009 added an additional point of sales growth.  Year-to-date operating profit of $2,074 million was down 2 percent compared to $2,108 million in 2009.  Adjusted operating profit in 2010 of $2,172 million increased 3 percent versus operating profit in the year-ago period.  Through nine months, diluted net income per share in 2010 was $3.25 and adjusted earnings per share were $3.48 compared with diluted net income per share of $3.35 in 2009.  Adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share in 2010 exclude a one-time charge in the first quarter for the remeasurement of the local currency balance sheet in Venezuela as a result of the adoption of highly inflationary a ccounting in that country in January 2010.  Additional detail on this item and further information about why the company uses these non-GAAP financial measures are provided later in this news release.
     Adjusted operating profit comparisons benefited from organic sales growth, FORCE cost savings of $280 million severance and related costs of $122 million in 2009 to streamline the organization and benefits of $80 million in 2010 from the streamlining initiative.  In addition, lower pension expense of $95 million and increased manufacturing volumes as a result of production curtailment in the year-ago period benefited comparisons by approximately $45 million.  These positive factors were partially offset by inflation in key cost inputs of about $575 million and increased marketing, research and general expenses, which included higher strategic marketing spending of about $110 millio n and increases related to the I-Flow acquisition and to support future growth in K-C International. 
,
Outlook
                The company updated several key planning and guidance assumptions for full-year 2010, as follows:
 
 
- 6 -
     Commenting on the outlook, Falk said, We remain committed to managing those factors we control in the short-term and doing whats right for the long-run health of our business.  We will continue to strengthen our brands, pursue our targeted growth initiatives and invest for future growth with higher levels of marketing and innovation spending.  We have no plans to cut back on these key investments, and we continue to expect that strategic marketing spending will rise at a faster pace than sales in 2010.  At the same time we will continue to leverage our strong financial discipline.  We are aggressively reducing costs, with ongoing cost savings expected to easily exceed $300 million this year, and tightly controlling disc retionary spending.  Moreover, we remain focused on cash generation and allocating it in shareholder-friendly ways, and we now expect to repurchase $800 million worth of KMB stock this year, at the high end of our previous target.
     Given our new sales and cost inflation assumptions, weve updated our outlook for 2010 adjusted earnings per share accordingly.  While the difficult environment has dampened our earnings growth this year, we are committed to improve performance going forward.  We expect earnings per share in the fourth quarter will be similar to, or potentially somewhat higher than, third quarter performance.  We anticipate benefits from improved net realized revenue, additional cost savings and somewhat lower pulp costs compared to third quarter levels.  At the same time, we are closely monitoring the overall economic environment, particularly market demand in North America.  We will continue to successfully execute our strategies to improve shareholder value over time.  
Non-GAAP financial measures
     This press release and the accompanying tables include the following financial measures that have not been calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP, and
 
 
- 7 -
are therefore referred to as non-GAAP financial measures.
                These non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following item included in the companys earnings, earnings per share, operating profit and effective
             tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 calculated in accordance with GAAP:
     In accordance with the SECs requirements, reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures are attached.
     
The company provides these non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental information to our GAAP financial measures.  Management and the companys Board of Directors use adjusted earnings, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating profit to (a) evaluate the companys historical and prospective financial performance and its performance relative to its competitors, (b) allocate resources and (c) measure the operational performance of the companys business units and their managers.
     Additionally, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the companys Board of Directors has used the non-GAAP financial measures when setting and assessing achievement of incentive compensation goals.  These goals are based, in part, on the companys adjusted earnings per share and improvement in the companys adjusted return on invested capital determined by excluding the charges that are used in calculating these non-GAAP financial measures.
     In addition, Kimberly-Clark management believes that investors understanding of the companys performance is enhanced by including these non-GAAP financial measures as a reasonable basis for comparing the companys ongoing results of operations.  Many investors are interested in understanding the performance of our businesses by comparing our results from ongoing operations from one period to the next.  By providing these non-GAAP financial measures, together with reconciliations, we believe we are enhancing investors understanding of our businesses and our results of operations.  Also, many financial analysts who follow our company focus on and publish both historical results and future
 
 
- 8 -
projections based on non-GAAP financial measures.  We believe that it is in the best interests of our investors for us to provide this information to analysts so that those analysts accurately report the non-GAAP financial information.
     
These non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measure.  There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded.  The company compensates for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to the GAAP measures and by providing reconciliations of the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP financial measures should be read only in conjunction with the companys consolidated financial statements prepared in acc ordance with GAAP.
Conference call
A conference call to discuss this news release and other matters of interest to investors and analysts will be held at 9 a.m. (CDT) today.  The conference call will be simultaneously broadcast over the World Wide Web.  Stockholders and others are invited to listen to the live broadcast or a playback, which can be accessed by following the instructions set out in the Investors section of the companys Web site (www.kimberly-clark.com).
About Kimberly-Clark
     
Kimberly-Clark and its well-known global brands are an indispensable part of life for people in more than 150 countries.  Every day, 1.3 billion people  nearly a quarter of the worlds population  trust K-C brands and the solutions they provide to enhance their health, hygiene and well-being.  With brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend, Kimberly-Clark holds No. 1 or No. 2 share positions in more than 80 countries.  To keep up with the latest K-C news and to learn more about the companys 138-year history of innovation, visit www.kimberly-clark.com.
     
Copies of Kimberly-Clarks Annual Report to Stockholders and its proxy statements and other SEC filings, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, are made available free of charge on the companys Web site on the same day they are filed with the SEC.  To view these filings, visit the Investors section of the companys Web site.
     
Certain matters contained in this news release concerning the business outlook, including anticipated raw material and energy costs, economic conditions, anticipated currency rates and exchange risk, anticipated impact of acquisitions, cost savings, changes in finished product selling prices, cash flow and uses of cash, capital spending, marketing and innovation spending, anticipated benefits related to the organization optimization initiative, anticipated financial and operating results, revenue realization strategies, contingencies and anticipated transactions of the company constitute forward-looking
 
 
- 9 -
statements and are based upon managements expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting the company.  There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that the companys results will be as estimated.  For a description of certain factors that could cause the companys future results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements, see Item 1A of the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 entitled Risk Factors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 10 -
 
 
Unaudited
 
 
 
- 11 -
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
- 12 -
 
Unaudited
 
 
- 13 -
Notes:
 
 
 
 
Unaudited
 
 
- 14 -
Supplemental Financial Information:
Unaudited
 
 
- 15 -
 
Description of Business Segments
The Corporation is organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into four reportable global business segments:  Personal Care; Consumer Tissue; K-C Professional & Other; and Health Care. The reportable segments were determined in accordance with how the Corporations executive managers develop and execute the Corporations global strategies to drive growth and profitability of the Corporations worldwide Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, K-C Professional & Other, and Health Care operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and developmen t programs, cost reductions including supply chain management, and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses. Segment management is evaluated on several factors, including operating profit. Segment operating profit excludes other income and (expense), net and income and expense not associated with the business segments
.
 
The principal sources of revenue in each of our global business segments are described below.
 
The Personal Care segment manufactures and markets disposable diapers, training and youth pants and swimpants; baby wipes; feminine and incontinence care products; and related products. Products in this segment are primarily for household use and are sold under a variety of brand names, including Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, Kotex, Lightdays, Depend, Poise and other brand names.
 
The Consumer Tissue segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products for household use. Products in this segment are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Hakle, Page and other brand names.
 
The K-C Professional & Other segment manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins, wipers and a range of safety products for the away-from-home marketplace. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech, KleenGuard, Kimcare and Jackson brand names.
The Health Care segment manufactures and markets disposable health care products such as surgical drapes and gowns, infection control products, face masks, exam gloves, respiratory products, pain management products and other disposable medical products.  Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Ballard, ON-Q and other brand names.
Unaudited
 
 
- 16 -
N.M.  Not meaningful
Unaudited
 
 
- 17 -
 
 
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES VERSUS PRIOR YEAR
Mix/Other includes rounding.
                                                 (2)  
  Volume related to the acquisition of Jackson Safety and I-Flow Corporation.
                                                 (3)
 
 
- 18 -
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION SCHEDULES
 
The tables on the following pages present the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.
EARNINGS SUMMARY:
 
OPERATING PROFIT SUMMARY:
 
 
 
- 19 -
OUTLOOK FOR 2010
Estimated Full-Year 2010 Diluted Earnings Per Share:
Estimated Full-Year Effective Tax Rate:
 
 
 
 



