FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20110426115714.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)           On April 21, 2011, stockholders of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Company) approved the Kimberly-Clark 2011 Outside Directors Compensation Plan (the 2011 Directors Plan), which is a renewal, amendment and restatement of Kimberly-Clark Outside Directors Plan (the 2001 Directors Plan).  The 2011 Directors Plan was approved by the Board of Directors on February 18, 2011, to be effective upon stockholder approval.  The key changes in the 2011 Directors Plan from the 2001 Directors Plan are:
The foregoing description of the 2011 Directors Plan is qualified by reference to the full text of the 2011 Directors Plan, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference.
Also on April 21, 2011, stockholders of the Company approved the Kimberly-Clark 2011 Equity Participation Plan (the 2011 Plan), which is a renewal, amendment and restatement of the Kimberly-Clark 2001 Equity Participation Plan (the 2001 Plan).  The 2011 Plan was approved by the Board of Directors on February 18, 2011, to be effective upon stockholder approval.  The key changes in the 2011 Plan from the 2001 Plan are:
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
The foregoing description of the 2011 Plan is qualified by reference to the full text of the 2011 Plan, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated by reference.
Item 5.07     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
(a) - (b)  The Companys 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on Thursday, April 21, 2011, at the Four Seasons Resort and Club, 4150 North MacArthur Boulevard, Irving, Texas.  
The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of security holders at the 2011 Annual Meeting are as follows:
 
 
                                                      
 
 
 
4
 
 
                                                                                         
(d)           On April 21, 2011, following the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the Board adopted a resolution providing that an advisory vote on the compensation of the Companys named executive officers would be held annually until the next required vote on the frequency of such votes.
5
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
No. 10.1     Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2011 Outside Directors Compensation Plan.
Exhibit
     
Exhibit No. 10.2
Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2011 Equity Participation Plan.
 
 6
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
7
 
 
No. 10.1           Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2011 Outside Directors Compensation Plan.
Exhibit
 
No. 10.2          
Exhibit
.
Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2011 Equity Participation Plan
 
 
 
8
 
 

 
 
Exhibit No. 10.1
1.         INTRODUCTION
The Kimberly-Clark Corporation Outside Directors Compensation Plan (the ) is intended to promote the interests of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the ) and its stockholders by enhancing the Corporations ability to attract, motivate and retain as Outside Directors persons of training, experience and ability, and to encourage the highest level of Outside Director performance. The Plan is intended to permit the Corporation maximum flexibility in implementing a compensation policy including aligning the Outside Directors economic interests closely with those of the Corporations stockholders by use of equity based compensation awards.
Plan
Corporation
2.         DEFINITIONS
Unless otherwise defined in the text of the Plan, capitalized terms herein shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 2.
 means any Corporation in which the Corporation owns 20 percent or more of the equity interest (collectively, the Affiliates).
Affiliate
 has the meaning set forth in Section 3 of the Plan.
Award
 means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
 means an event deemed to have taken place if: (i) a third person, including a group as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A, acquires shares of the Corporation having 30 percent or more of the total number of votes that may be cast for the election of Directors of the Corporation; or (ii) as the result of any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions (a Transaction), the persons who were Directors of the Corporation before the Transaction shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any successor to the Corporation.
Change of Control
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
Code
 means the Committee Rules for the Kimberly-Clark Corporation 2001 Equity Participation Plan or any successor plan.
Committee Rules
 means a member of the Board.
Director
 
1
 
 
 means April 21, 2011 for the amended and restated Plan, upon approval by the stockholders of the Corporation at its 2011 annual meeting. The Plan was originally adopted effective January 1, 2001.
Effective Date
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
 means the reported closing price of the Stock, on the relevant date as reported on the composite list used by for reporting stock prices or, if no such sale shall has been made on that day, on the last preceding day on which there was such a sale.
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
 means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Management Development and Compensation Committee
 means the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board.
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
 means a right to purchase a specified number of shares of Stock at a fixed Option price equal to no less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date the Option is granted. For purposes of this Plan, Options shall be issued either as , as described in subsection 8(a)(iii), or , as described in subsection 8(b).
Option
Annual Options
Additional Options
 means a Director who is not on the date of grant of an Award pursuant to the Plan, or within one year prior to the date of such grant, an employee of the Corporation or any of its Affiliates.
Outside Director
 shall mean the period of time during which the Transferability Restrictions applicable to Awards will be in force.
Restricted Period
 shall mean a share of Stock which may not be traded or sold, until the date the Transferability Restrictions expire.
Restricted Share
 means the right, as described in Section 10, to receive an amount, payable in either cash or shares of Stock, equal to the value of a specified number of shares of Stock. No certificates shall be issued with respect to such Restricted Share Unit, except as provided in subsection 10(d), and the Corporation shall maintain a bookkeeping account in the name of the Outside Director to which the Restricted Share Unit shall relate.
Restricted Share Unit
 means the annual retainer payable to an Outside Director for services rendered as a Director. As of the Effective Date, the amount of the cash portion of such Retainer shall be $85,000 per year, payable in quarterly installments in advance. The Board may, from time to time, establish a different retainer amount and/or the method of paying the retainer.
Retainer
 means Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Rule 16b-3
 
2
 
 
 and  means the separation from service as a Director on or after the date the Director has attained age 55.
Retirement
Retires
 means the shares of the Corporations common stock, par value $1.25 per share.
Stock
 has the meaning set forth in subsection 8(l)(i) of this Plan.
Stock Appreciation Right (SAR)
 means the restrictions on transferability imposed on Awards of Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units.
Transferability Restrictions
3.         COMPENSATION
The Outside Directors will be entitled to receive compensation for their services as a member of the Board, and any of its committees, as may be determined from time to time by the Board following a review of, and recommendation on, Outside Director compensation made by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The compensation paid to each Outside Director is referred to herein as an , and may be paid in cash, Stock, Options, SARs, Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, other forms of equity or any combination thereof as is determined by the Board.
Award
4.         PARTICIPATION AND FORM OF GRANT
Participation in the Plan is limited to Outside Directors. It is intended that all Outside Directors will be participants in the Plan.
All Awards under the Plan shall be made in the form of Options, SARs, Stock, cash, Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, other forms of equity or any combination thereof. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, any Awards shall contain restrictions on assignability to the extent required under Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act.
5.         ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
The Plan shall be administered by the Board, which shall have sole and complete discretion and authority with respect thereto, except as expressly limited by the Plan. All action taken by the Board in the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final and binding on all matters relating to the Plan. All questions of interpretation, administration and application of the Plan shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Board, except that the Board may authorize any Directors, officers or employees of the Corporation to assist the Board in the administration of the Plan and to execute documents on behalf of the Board. The Board also may delegate to a committee of the Board, or such other Directors, officers or employees, as the Board determines, such other ministerial and discretionary duties as it sees fit.
The Corporation or the Board may employ such legal counsel, consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the Plan, and may rely upon any advice or opinion received from any such counsel or consultant and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. No member of the Board shall be liable for any act done or omitted to be done by such member, or by any other member of the Board, in connection with the Plan, except for such members own willful misconduct or as otherwise expressly provided by statute.
The Board shall have the power to promulgate rules and other guidelines in connection with the performance of its obligations, powers and duties under the Plan, including its duty to administer and construe the Plan and the Awards.
All expenses of administering the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation.
 
3
 
 
6.         TERM OF PLAN
The Plan as amended and restated shall become effective as of the Effective Date. The Plan shall remain in effect until April 20, 2021, unless the Plan is terminated prior thereto by the Board. No Awards may be granted after the termination date of the Plan, but Awards theretofore granted shall continue in force beyond that date pursuant to their terms.
7.         SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN; ADJUSTMENTS
(a)     .   The aggregate maximum number of shares of Stock available for grant under the Plan shall be 1,000,000 shares, subject to the adjustment provision set forth in subsection 7(b) below. Shares of Stock subject to the Plan will be shares that were once issued and subsequently reacquired by the Corporation in the form of treasury stock. Shares subject to Awards which become ineligible for purchase, and Restricted Shares forfeited, will be available for Awards under the Plan to the extent permitted by Section 16 of the Exchange Act (or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) and to the extent determined to be appropriate by the Board. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, each grant of Awards under this Plan shall be subject to the availability of shares of Stock under this subsection 7(a).
Shares Subject to the Plan
 
(b)     .  In the event there are any changes in the Stock or the capitalization of the Corporation through a corporate transaction, such as any merger, any acquisition through the issuance of capital stock of the Corporation, any consolidation, any separation of the Corporation (including a spin-off or other distribution of stock of the Corporation), any reorganization of the Corporation (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Code), or any partial or complete liquidation by the Corporation, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split or other change in the corporate structure, appropriate adjustments and changes shall be made by the Board, to the extent necessary to preserve the benefit to the Outside Director contemplated hereby, to reflect such changes in (i) the aggregate number of shares of Stock subject to the Plan, (ii) the number of shares and the Award price per share of all shares of Stock subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) such other provisions of the Plan as may be necessary and equitable to carry out the foregoing purposes, provided, however, that no such adjustment or change may be made to the extent that such adjustment or change will result in the dilution or enlargement of any rights of any Outside Director.
Adjustments
8.         STOCK OPTIONS
(a)      .  Except to the extent that the Board determines otherwise, Options may be granted to Outside Directors under the Plan as follows:
Annual Grant of Options
 
 
(i)    The Board, by resolution, may provide that each Outside Director in office on January 1 of the calendar year may be automatically granted an Option to purchase a number of shares of Stock to be determined by the Board. The Board, by resolution, also may provide that each Outside Director who is first elected or appointed to the Board after January 1 of the calendar year, may be automatically granted a pro rata number of Options hereunder, without further action by the Board or the stockholders of the Corporation, on the earlier of the date of the first regular meeting during the calendar year of the Board or the Management Development and Compensation Committee after the date such Outside Director first becomes eligible for the grant of Options under this subsection 8(a). The Options to be pro rated will be the amount that would have been paid during the calendar year.
(ii)   In addition, the Board, by resolution, may provide that each Outside Director who during the calendar year is designated to serve as the Chair of any one or more of the Audit, Management Development and Compensation, or Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of the Board, or such other committee as may be determined by the Board, may be granted an Option to purchase an additional number of shares of Stock for each Chair to be determined by the Board.
 
4
 
 
(iii)  A grant of Options as payment of either the annual Retainer or for each applicable Chair of a Committee is referred to herein as Annual Options.
(iv)  Except as otherwise determined by the Board, Annual Options that may be granted to each Outside Director, and each Chair of the Audit, Management Development and Compensation, or Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, as of January 1 of the calendar year, shall be automatically granted, without further action by the Board or the stockholders of the Corporation, on the date of the regular February meeting of the Management Development and Compensation Committee.
(b)      .  To the extent determined by the Board, each Outside Director may elect to receive the cash portion of his or her annual Retainer in the form of an additional Option (hereinafter referred to as an ), in increments of 50 percent of such cash portion of the Retainer. Except as otherwise provided below, such election must be made prior to the date that services are rendered in the calendar year in which such Retainer otherwise would be paid and shall be irrevocable thereafter for such calendar year; provided, however, that an election by an Outside Director pursuant to this subsection for a calendar year (or portion thereof) shall be valid and effective for all purposes for all succeeding calendar years, unless and until such election is revoked or modified by such Outside Director prior to the date that services are rendered in such succeeding calendar year(s); and, provided further, that no such election, revocation or modification may be made within six months of another such election, revocation or modification if the exemption afforded by Rule 16b-3 would not be available as a result thereof.
Election of Additional Option
Additional Option
Notwithstanding the preceding, an individual who is first elected to the Board as an Outside Director during a calendar year may, to the extent determined by the Board, be permitted to make an election to receive the cash portion of his or her annual Retainer in the form of an Additional Option, in increments of 50 percent of such cash portion of the Retainer, during the thirty day period following his or her election date. An election under this paragraph shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Section.
The number of shares of Stock subject to this Additional Option shall be based on 85 percent of the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation of the cash portion of the Retainer elected to be received as an Additional Option as of the date of grant. To the extent Additional Options are authorized by the Board, each Outside Director as of January 1 of the calendar year, shall be automatically granted the Additional Options elected hereunder, without further action by the Board or the stockholders of the Corporation, on the date of the February Management Development and Compensation Committee meeting. To the extent Additional Options are authorized by the Board, each Outside Director who first becomes eligible for a grant after January 1 of the calendar year, shall be automatically granted the Additional Options elected hereunder, without further action by the Board or the stockholders of the Corporation, on the earlier of the date of the first regular meeting during the calendar year of either the Board or the Management Development and Compensation Committee after the date such Outside Director first becomes eligible and elects the grant of Additional Options under this subsection 8(b).
 
 
(c)      .  An election by an Outside Director to receive some or all of the cash portion of his or her Retainer as an Additional Option shall (i) be in writing, (ii) be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, and (iii) be irrevocable in all respects with respect to the calendar year(s) to which the election relates. If no election has ever been made by the Outside Director pursuant to subsection 8(b) above, he or she shall be deemed to have made an election to receive the entire cash portion of the Retainer in cash.
Form of Additional Option Election
 
5
 
 
 
(d)      .  The period of each Option shall be 10 years from the date it is granted.
Period of Option
(e)      .  The exercise price of an Option shall be the Fair Market Value of the Stock at the time the Option is granted.
Option Price
(f)       .  Each Option shall not be exercisable until at least one year has expired after the granting of the Option, during which time the Outside Director shall have been in the continuous service as a Director of the Corporation; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection 8(f) shall not apply and all Options outstanding under the Plan shall be exercisable in full if the Outside Director separates from service as a Director within the two (2) year period following the date a Change of Control of the Corporation occurs. Commencing one year after the date the Option was granted, the Outside Director may purchase the total number of shares of Stock covered by the Option; provided, however, that if the Director separates from service as a Director for any reason other than death, Retirement, a voluntary decision by the Outside Director not to stand for reelection to the Board or total and permanent disability, the Option shall be exercisable only for the number of shares of Stock which were exercisable on the date of such separation from service. In no event, however, may an Option be exercised more than 10 years after the date of its grant.
Limitations on Exercise
(g)      .  Options shall be exercised by delivering to the Corporation, as directed by the office of the Treasurer at the World Headquarters, written notice of the number of shares of Stock with respect to which Option rights are being exercised and by paying in full the Option Price of the shares at the time being acquired. Payment may be made in cash, a check payable to the Corporation or in shares of Stock transferable to the Corporation and having a Fair Market Value on the transfer date equal to the amount payable to the Corporation. The date of exercise shall be deemed to be the date the Corporation receives the written notice and payment for the shares being purchased. An Outside Director shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to shares covered by an Option until the Outside Director becomes the record holder of such shares.
Exercise; Notice Thereof
(h)      .  If a Director dies, retires, becomes totally and permanently disabled, or separates from service on the Board by reason of a voluntary decision by the Outside Director not to stand for reelection to the Board, without having exercised an Option in full, the remaining portion of such Option may be exercised, without regard to the limitations in subsection 8(f), within the remaining period of the Option. Upon an Outside Directors death, the Option may be exercised by the person or persons to whom such Outside Directors rights under the Option shall pass by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, if no such person has such rights, by his executor or administrator.
Exercise after Death, Retirement, Disability or Voluntary Separation of Service
(i)       .  During the Outside Directors lifetime, Options shall be exercisable only by such Outside Director. Options shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution upon the Outside Directors death. Notwithstanding anything in this subsection 8(i) to the contrary, Outside Directors shall have the right to transfer Options, to the extent allowed under Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to Options granted to the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation under Committee Rules.
Non-transferability
 
6
 
 
(j)       .  It is contemplated that the Corporation will register shares sold to Directors pursuant to the Plan under the Securities Act of 1933. In the absence of an effective registration, however, an Outside Director exercising an Option hereunder may be required to give a representation that he/she is acquiring such shares as an investment and not with a view to distribution thereof.
Purchase for Investment
(k)      .  In the case of any Option awarded to an Outside Director who is not a resident of the United States, the Board may (i) waive or alter the conditions set forth in subsections 8(a) through 8(j) to the extent that such action is necessary to conform such Option to applicable foreign law, or (ii) take any action, either before or after the award of such Option, which it deems advisable to obtain approval of such Option by an appropriate governmental entity; provided, however, that no action may be taken hereunder if such action would (1) increase any benefits accruing to any Outside Directors under the Plan, (2) increase the number of securities which may be issued under the Plan, (3) modify the requirements for eligibility to participate in the Plan, or (4) result in a failure to comply with applicable provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act or the Code.
Options for Nonresident Aliens
(l)       .
Election to Receive Cash Rather than Stock
(i)   At the same time as Options are granted the Board may also grant to designated Outside Directors the right to convert a specified number of shares of Stock covered by such Options to cash, subject to the terms and conditions of this subsection 8(l). For each such Option so converted, the Outside Director shall be entitled to receive cash equal to the difference between the Outside Directors Option Price and the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date of conversion. Such a right shall be referred to herein as a Stock Appreciation Right (). Outside Directors to whom a SAR has been granted shall be notified of such grant and of the Options to which such SAR pertains. A SAR may be revoked by the Board, in its sole discretion, at any time, provided, however, that no such revocation may be taken hereunder if such action would result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section.
SAR
(ii)   An Outside Director who has been granted a SAR may exercise such SAR during such periods as provided for in the rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The SAR shall expire when the period of the subject Option expires.
(iii)  At the time an Outside Director converts one or more shares of Stock covered by an Option to cash pursuant to a SAR, such Outside Director must exercise one or more Options, which were granted at the same time as the Option subject to such SAR, for an equal number of shares of Stock. In the event that the number of shares and the Option Price per share of all shares of Stock subject to outstanding Options is adjusted as provided in the Plan, the above SARs shall automatically be adjusted in the same ratio which reflects the adjustment to the number of shares and the Option Price per share of all shares of Stock subject to outstanding Options.
(m)     .  No Option or SAR may be re-priced, replaced, re-granted through cancellation, or modified without stockholder approval (except in connection with a change in the Common Stock or the capitalization of the Corporation as provided in Section 7 hereof) if the effect would be to reduce the exercise price for the shares underlying such Option or SAR. In addition, no Option or SAR may be repurchased or otherwise cancelled in exchange for cash (except in connection with a change in the Common Stock or the capitalization of the Corporation as provided in Section 7 hereof) if the Option Price or Grant Price of the SAR is equal to or less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock at the time of such repurchase or exchange. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Committee may take any such action set forth in this subsection 8(m) subject to the approval of the stockholders.
No Repricings
 
7
 
 
9.         RESTRICTED SHARES
The Board may from time to time designate those Outside Directors who shall receive Restricted Share Awards. Each grant of Restricted Shares under the Plan shall be evidenced by a notice from the Board to the Outside Director. The notice shall contain such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as shall be determined by the Board and shall indicate the number of Restricted Shares awarded and the following terms and conditions of the award.
(a)      .  The Board shall determine the number of Restricted Shares to be included in the grant and the period or periods during which the Transferability Restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares will be in force (the ). The Restricted Period may be the same for all Restricted Shares granted at a particular time to any one Outside Director or may be different with respect to different Outside Directors or with respect to various of the Restricted Shares granted to the same Outside Director, all as determined by the Board at the time of grant.
Grant of Restricted Shares
Restricted Period
(b)      .  During the Restricted Period, Restricted Shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of, or mortgaged, pledged or otherwise encumbered. Furthermore, Outside Directors right, if any, to receive Stock upon termination of the Restricted Period may not be assigned or transferred except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. In order to enforce the limitations imposed upon the Restricted Shares the Board may (i) cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates, and/or (ii) issue stop transfer instructions as it deems necessary or appropriate. Holders of Restricted Shares limited as to sale under this subsection 9(b) shall have rights as a shareholder with respect to such shares to receive dividends in cash or other property or other distribution or rights in respect of such shares, and to vote such shares as the record owner thereof. With respect to each grant of Restricted Shares, the Board shall determine the Transferability Restrictions which will apply to the Restricted Shares for all or part of the Restricted Period. By way of illustration but not by way of limitation, the Board may provide (i) that the Outside Director will not be entitled to receive any shares of Stock unless he or she still serves as a Director of the Corporation at the end of the Restricted Period, (ii) that the Outside Director will become vested in Restricted Shares according to a schedule determined by the Board, or under other terms and conditions determined by the Board, and (iii) how any Transferability Restrictions will be applied, modified or accelerated in the case of the Outside Directors death or total and permanent disability.
Transferability Restrictions
an
(c)      .  Each certificate issued for Restricted Shares shall be registered in the name of the Outside Director and deposited with the Corporation or its designee. These certificates shall remain in the possession of the Corporation or its designee until the end of the applicable Restricted Period or, if the Board has provided for earlier termination of the Transferability Restrictions following an Outside Directors death, total and permanent disability or earlier vesting of the shares of Stock, such earlier termination of the Transferability Restrictions. At whichever time is applicable, certificates representing the number of shares of Stock to which the Outside Director is then entitled shall be delivered to the Outside Director free and clear of the Transferability Restrictions; provided that in the case of an Outside Director who is not entitled to receive the full number of Restricted Shares evidenced by the certificates then being released from escrow because of the application of the Transferability Restrictions, those certificates shall be returned to the Corporation and canceled and a new certificate representing the shares of Stock, if any, to which the Outside Director is entitled pursuant to the Transferability Restrictions shall be issued and delivered to the Outside Director, free and clear of the Transferability Restrictions.
Manner of Holding and Delivering Restricted Shares
10.       RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS
The Board shall from time to time designate those Outside Directors who shall receive Restricted Share Unit Awards. The Board shall advise such Outside Directors of their Awards by a letter indicating the number of Restricted Share Units awarded and the following terms and conditions of the award.
(a)      .  The number of Restricted Share Units to be granted to each Outside Director and the Restricted Period shall be determined by the Board in its sole discretion.
Restricted Share Units may be granted to Outside Directors as of the first day of a Restricted Period
 
8
 
 
(b)      .  During the Restricted Period, Restricted Share Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of, or mortgaged, pledged or otherwise encumbered. Furthermore, an Outside Directors right, if any, to receive cash or Stock upon termination of the Restricted Period may not be assigned or transferred except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. With respect to each grant of Restricted Share Units, the Board shall determine the Transferability Restrictions which will apply to the Restricted Share Units for all or part of the Restricted Period. By way of illustration but not by way of limitation, the Board may provide (i) that the Outside Director will forfeit any Restricted Share Units unless he or she still serves as a Director of the Corporation at the end of the Restricted Period, (ii) that the Outside Director will become vested in Restricted Share Units according to a schedule determined by the Board or under other terms and conditions determined by the Board, and (iii) how any Transferability Restrictions will be applied, modified or accelerated in the case of the Outside Directors death or total and permanent disability.
Transferability Restrictions
(c)      .  During the Restricted Period, Outside Directors will be credited with dividends, equivalent in value to those declared and paid on shares of Stock, on all Restricted Share Units granted to them. These dividends will be regarded as having been reinvested in Restricted Share Units on the date of the Stock dividend payments based on the then Fair Market Value of the Stock thereby increasing the number of Restricted Share Units held by an Outside Director. Holders of Restricted Share Units under this subsection 10(c) shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares. Holders of Restricted Share Units are not entitled to receive dividends in cash or other property, nor other distribution of rights in respect of such shares, nor to vote such shares as the record owner thereof.
Dividends
(d)      .  The payment of Restricted Share Units shall be made in shares of Stock unless the Board determines at the time of grant that payment will be made in cash or a combination of both cash and shares of Stock. The payment of Restricted Share Units shall be made within 90 days following the end of the Restricted Period.
Payment of Restricted Share Units
11.       NOTICES; DELIVERY OF STOCK CERTIFICATES
Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Corporation or the Board pursuant to the Plan shall be deemed given when personally delivered or deposited in the United States mail, registered or certified, postage prepaid, addressed to the Outside Director at the last address shown for the Outside Director on the records of the Corporation.
12.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
The Board may at any time amend, suspend, or discontinue the Plan or alter or amend any or all Awards under the Plan to the extent (i) permitted by law, (ii) permitted by the rules of any stock exchange on which the Stock or any other security of the Corporation is listed, and (iii) permitted under applicable provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act (including Rule 16b-3 thereof); provided, however, that if any of the foregoing requires the approval by the stockholders of any such amendment, suspension or discontinuance, then the Board may take such action subject to the approval of the stockholders. Except as provided in subsection 7(b), no such amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the Director, adversely alter or change any of the rights or obligations under any Award granted to the Director. The Board may in its sole and absolute discretion, by written notice to a Director, (i) limit the period in which an Award may be exercised to a period ending at least three months following the date of such notice, and/or (ii) limit or eliminate the number of shares of Stock subject to Award after a period ending at least three months following the date of such notice. Except as provided in subsection 8(k) and this Section 12, no such amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the Director, adversely alter or change any of the rights or obligations under any Options or other rights previously the Director under the Plan.
granted
 
9
 
 
13.       TAXES
The Corporation shall require the withholding of all taxes as required by law. An Outside Director may elect, to the extent allowed by law, to have any portion of the federal, state or local income tax withholding required with respect to an Award satisfied by tendering Stock to the Corporation, which, in the absence of such an election, would have been issued to the Director in connection with the Award.
14.       GOVERNING LAW
The terms of the Plan shall be governed, construed, administered and regulated in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware and applicable federal law. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be determined to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the other provisions of the Plan shall continue in full force and effect as if such illegal or invalid provision had never been included herein.
15.       DIRECTORS SERVICE
Nothing contained in the Plan, or with respect to any grant hereunder, shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of stockholders of the Corporation to remove any Director from the Board, nor confer upon any Director any right to continue to serve on the Board as a Director.
 
10
 

 
Exhibit No. 10.2
1.           PURPOSE
This 2011 Equity Participation Plan (formerly the 2001 Equity Participation Plan) (the Plan) of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Corporation) is intended to aid in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and to encourage those employees who materially contribute, by managerial, scientific or other innovative means to the success of the Corporation or of an Affiliate, to acquire an ownership interest in the Corporation, thereby increasing their motivation for and interest in the Corporations or Affiliates long-term success.
2.           EFFECTIVE DATE
The Plan was originally adopted effective as of April 26, 2001, upon approval by the stockholders of the Corporation at its 2001 annual meeting. The Plan is renamed, amended and restated effective as of April 21, 2011, upon approval by the stockholders of the Corporation at its 2011 annual meeting.
3.           DEFINITIONS
 means any domestic or foreign corporation at least fifty percent (50%) of whose shares normally entitled to vote in electing directors is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation or other Affiliates (collectively, the Affiliates), provided, however, that at least twenty percent (20%) shall replace at least fifty percent (50%) where there is a legitimate business criteria for using such lower percentage.
Affiliate
 has the meaning set forth in subsection 14(b) of the Plan.
Average PRSU Payout
 has the meaning set forth in Section 6 of the Plan.
Award
 means an agreement entered into between the Corporation and a Participant setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Award granted to the Participant.
Award Agreement
 means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
 means any of the following: (i) the commission by the Participant of a felony; (ii) the Participants dishonesty, habitual neglect or incompetence in the management of the affairs of the Corporation; or (iii) the refusal or failure by the Participant to act in accordance with any lawful directive or order of the Corporation, or an act or failure to act by the Participant which is in bad faith and which is detrimental to the Corporation.
Cause
 means an event deemed to have taken place if: (i) a third person, including a group as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A, acquires shares of the Corporation having thirty percent (30%) or more of the total number of votes that may be cast for the election of directors of the Corporation; or (ii) as the result of any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions (a Transaction), within a twelve month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation before the Transaction shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board of the Corporation or any successor to the Corporation.
Change of Control
 
1
 
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
Code
 means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, provided that if the requisite number of members of the Management Development and Compensation Committee are not Disinterested Persons, the Plan shall be administered by a committee, all of whom are Disinterested Persons, appointed by the Board and consisting of two or more directors with full authority to act in the matter. The term Committee shall mean the Management Development and Compensation Committee or the committee appointed by the Board, as the case may be. Furthermore, the term Committee shall include any delegate to the extent authority is delegated pursuant to Section 4 hereunder.
Committee
 means the interpretative guidelines approved by the Committee providing the foundation for administration of the Plan.
Committee Rules
 means the common stock, par value $1.25 per share, of the Corporation and shall include both treasury shares and authorized but unissued shares and shall also include any security of the Corporation issued in substitution, in exchange for, or in lieu of the Common Stock.
Common Stock
 means a person who is a Non-Employee Director for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, or any successor provision, and who is also an outside director for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section.
Disinterested Person
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
 means (a) the reported closing price of the Common Stock, on the relevant date as reported on the composite list used by The Wall Street Journal for reporting stock prices, or if no such sale shall have been made on that day, on the last preceding day on which there was such a sale, or (b) if clause (a) is not applicable, the value determined by the Committee using such reasonable method of valuation that complies with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
Fair Market Value
 means an Option which is so defined for purposes of Section 422 of the Code or any successor section.
Incentive Stock Option
 means any Option which is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
 means a right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock at a fixed option price equal to no less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Award is granted.
Option
 has the meaning set forth in Section 12 of the Plan.
Other Stock-Based Award
 
2
 
 
 has the meaning set forth in subsection 7(b) of the Plan.
Option Price
 means an employee who the Committee selects to participate in and receive Awards under the Plan (collectively, the Participants).
Participant
 shall mean any right granted under Section 11 of the Plan.
Performance Award
 means the specific performance objectives as established by the Committee, which, if achieved, will result in the amount of payment, or the early payment, of the Award. The Performance Goal may consist of one or more or any combination of the following criteria: return on invested capital, stock price, market share, sales revenue, cash flow, earnings per share, return on equity, total stockholder return, gross margin, net sales, operating profit return on sales, costs and/or such other financial, accounting or quantitative metric determined by the Committee. The performance goals may be described in terms that are related to the individual Participant, to the Corporation as a whole, or to a subsidiary, division, department, region, function or business unit of the Corporation in which the Participant is employed. The Committee, in its discretion, may change or modify these criteria; however, in the case of any Award to any employee who is or may be a covered employee, as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee has no discretion to increase the amount of compensation that would otherwise be due upon attainment of the goal, and at all times the criteria must meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor section, to the extent applicable.
Performance Goal
 means the termination of a Participants employment with the Corporation and/or its Affiliates within the two (2) year period following a Change of Control of the Corporation for any reason unless such termination is by reason of death or disability or unless such termination is (i) by the Corporation for Cause or (ii) by the Participant without Good Reason. Subject to the definition of Termination by the Participant for Good Reason, transfers of employment for administrative purposes among the Corporation and its Affiliates shall not be deemed a Qualified Termination of Employment.
Qualified Termination of Employment
 shall mean the period of time during which the Transferability Restrictions applicable to Awards will be in force.
Restricted Period
 shall mean a share of Common Stock which may not be traded or sold, until the date the Transferability Restrictions expire.
Restricted Share
 means the right, as described in Section 10, to receive an amount, payable in either cash or shares of Common Stock, equal to the value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock. No certificates shall be issued with respect to such Restricted Share Unit, except as provided in subsection 10(d), and the Corporation shall maintain a bookkeeping account in the name of the Participant to which the Restricted Share Unit shall relate.
Restricted Share Unit
 and  for Awards granted after December 31, 2003 means the termination of employment on or after the date the Participant has attained age 55. For Awards granted prior to January 1, 2004  and  means the termination of employment on or after the date the Participant is entitled to receive immediate payments under a qualified retirement plan of the Corporation or an Affiliate; provided, however, if the Participant is not eligible to participate under a qualified retirement plan of the Corporation or its Affiliates then such Participant shall be deemed to have retired if his termination of employment is on or after the date such Participant has attained age 55.
Retirement
Retires
Retirement
Retires
 has the meaning set forth in Section 8 of the Plan.
Stock Appreciation Right (SAR)
 
3
 
 
 shall mean the separation from service during the two year time period following the initial existence (without the Participants express written consent) of any one of the following conditions:
Termination by the Participant for Good Reason
(a)           A material diminution in the Participants base compensation;
(b)           A material diminution in the Participants authority, duties, or responsibilities;
(c)           A material diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the supervisor to whom the Participant is required to report, including a requirement that a Participant report to a corporate officer or employee instead of reporting directly to the board of directors of the Corporation;
(d)           A material diminution in the budget over which the Participant retains authority;
(e)           A material change in the geographic location at which the Participant must perform the services; or
(f)           Any other action or inaction that constitutes a material breach by the Corporation of any agreement under which the Participant provides services.
The Participant must provide notice to the Corporation of the existence of any of the above conditions within a period not to exceed 90 days of the initial existence of the condition, upon the notice of which the Corporation must be provided a period of at least 30 days during which it may remedy the condition and not be required to pay the amount.
The Participants right to terminate the Participants employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Participants incapacity due to physical or mental illness. The Participants continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder.
 means Totally and Permanently Disabled as defined in the Kimberly-Clark Corporation Pension Plan.
Total and Permanent Disability
 means the restrictions on transferability imposed on Awards of Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units.
Transferability Restrictions
4.           ADMINISTRATION
The Plan and all Awards granted pursuant thereto shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee, in its absolute discretion, shall have the power to interpret and construe the Plan and any Award Agreements; provided, however, that no such action or determination may increase the amount of compensation payable that would otherwise be due in a manner that would result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section. Any interpretation or construction of any provisions of the Plan or the Award Agreements by the Committee shall be final and conclusive upon all persons. No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith.
The Committee shall have the power to promulgate Committee Rules and other guidelines in connection with the performance of its obligations, powers and duties under the Plan, including its duty to administer and construe the Plan and the Award Agreements.
 
4
 
 
The Committee may authorize persons other than its members to carry out its policies and directives subject to the limitations and guidelines set by the Committee, and may delegate its authority under the Plan. The foregoing delegation of authority shall be limited as follows: (a) with respect to persons who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the authority to grant Awards, the selection for participation, decisions concerning the timing, pricing and amount of a grant or Award and authority to administer Awards shall not be delegated by the Committee; (b) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock covered by Awards to newly hired employees, or to respond to special recognition or retention needs which may be granted by the Chief Executive Officer within any calendar year period shall not exceed 200,000, provided, however, this limitation shall not apply to any delegation by the Committee to the Chief Executive Officer with respect to any scheduled annual grant of Awards (subject, however, to the other limitations set forth in this Section 4); (c) the delegation of authority to grant Awards shall be limited to grants by the Chief Executive Officer subject to the requirements of Section 157(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (or any successor statute); (d) any delegation shall satisfy all applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, or any successor provision; (e) no such delegation shall result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section; and (f) the Chief Executive Officer shall not have the authority to grant Awards to himself or herself. Any person to whom such authority is granted shall continue to be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan.
5.           ELIGIBILITY
The Committee shall from time to time select the Participants from those employees whom the Committee determines either to be in a position to contribute materially to the success of the Corporation or Affiliate or to have in the past so contributed. Only employees (including officers and directors who are employees) of the Corporation and its Affiliates are eligible to participate in the Plan.
6.           FORM OF GRANTS
All Awards under the Plan shall be made in the form of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards, Other Stock-Based Awards or any combination thereof. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any Awards shall contain the restriction on assignability in subsection 20(f) of the Plan to the extent required under Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act.
7.           STOCK OPTIONS
The Committee or its delegate shall determine and designate from time to time those Participants to whom Options are to be granted, the number of shares of Common Stock to be granted/awarded to each and the periods the Option shall be exercisable. Such Options may be in the form of Incentive Stock Options or in the form of Nonqualified Stock Options. The Committee in its discretion at the time of grant may establish Performance Goals that may affect the grant, exercise and/or settlement of an Option. After granting an Option to a Participant, the Committee shall cause to be delivered to the Participant an Award Agreement evidencing the granting of the Option. The Award Agreement shall be in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve. The terms and conditions of all Options granted under the Plan need not be the same, but all Options must meet the applicable terms and conditions specified in subsections 7(a) through 7(i).
(a)           Period of Option. The Period of each Option shall be no more than 10 years from the date it is granted.
(b)           Option Price. The Option price shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not in any instance be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock at the time that the Option is granted (the Option Price).
 
5
 
 
(c)           Limitations on Exercise. The Option shall not be exercisable until at least one year has expired after the granting of the Option, during which time the Participant shall have been in the continuous employ of the Corporation or an Affiliate; provided, however, that the Option shall become exercisable immediately in the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment of a Participant, without regard to the limitations set forth below in this subsection 7(c). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee or its delegate at the time of grant, at any time during the period of the Option after the end of the first year, the Participant may purchase up to thirty percent (30%) of the shares covered by the Option; after the end of the second year, an additional thirty percent (30%); and after the end of the third year, the remaining forty percent (40%) of the total number of shares covered by the Option; provided, however, that if the Participants employment is terminated for any reason other than death, Retirement or Total and Permanent Disability, the Option shall be exercisable only for three months following such termination and only for the number of shares of Common Stock which were exercisable on the date of such termination. In no event, however, may an Option be exercised more than 10 years after the date of its grant.
(d)           Exercise after Death, Retirement, or Disability. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee or its delegate at the time of grant, if a Participant dies, becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled, or Retires without having exercised the Option in full, the remaining portion of such Option may be exercised, without regard to the limitations in subsection 7(c), as follows. If a Participant dies or becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled the remaining portion of such Option may be exercised within (i) three years from the date of any such event or (ii) the remaining period of the Option, whichever is earlier. Upon a Participants death, the Option may be exercised by the person or persons to whom such Participants rights under the Option shall pass by will or by applicable law or, if no such person has such rights, by his executor or administrator. If a Participant Retires the remaining portion of such Option may be exercised within (i) five years from the date of any such event or (ii) the remaining period of the Option, whichever is earlier.
(e)           No Repricings. No Option or SAR may be re-priced, replaced, re-granted through cancellation, or modified (except in connection with a change in the Common Stock or the capitalization of the Corporation as provided in Section 17 hereof) if the effect would be to reduce the exercise price for the shares underlying such Option or SAR. In addition, no Option or SAR may be repurchased or otherwise cancelled in exchange for cash (except in connection with a change in the Common Stock or the capitalization of the Corporation as provided in Section 17 hereof) if the Option Price or Grant Price of the SAR is equal to or less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock at the time of such repurchase or exchange. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Committee may take any such action set forth in this subsection 7(e) subject to the approval of the stockholders.
(f)           Exercise; Notice Thereof. Options shall be exercised by delivering to the Corporation, or an agent designated by the Corporation, subject to any applicable rules or regulations adopted by the Committee, notice of the number of shares with respect to which Option rights are being exercised and by paying in full the Option Price of the shares at the time being acquired. Exercise methods and processes for paying the Option Price shall be as determined by the Committee, or its delegate, and may include payment in cash, a check payable to the Corporation, or in shares of Common Stock transferable to the Corporation and having a fair market value on the transfer date equal to the amount payable to the Corporation or such other methods permitted by the Committee in its sole discretion. A Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to shares covered by such Option until the Participant becomes the record holder of such shares.
(g)           Purchase for Investment. It is contemplated that the Corporation will register shares sold to Participants pursuant to the Plan under the Securities Act of 1933. In the absence of an effective registration, however, a Participant exercising an Option hereunder may be required to give a representation that he/she is acquiring such shares as an investment and not with a view to distribution thereof.
 
6
 
 
(h)           Limitations on Incentive Stock Option Grants.
(i)           An Incentive Stock Option shall be granted only to an individual who, at the time the Option is granted, does not own stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation or Affiliates.
(ii)           The aggregate Fair Market Value of all shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any year shall not exceed $100,000. The aggregate Fair Market Value of such shares shall be determined at the time the Option is granted.
(i)           Tandem Grants.
(i)           At the same time as Nonqualified Stock Options are granted the Committee may also grant to designated Participants a tandem SAR, subject to the terms and conditions of this subsection 7(i) and Section 8. If Nonqualified Stock Options and a SAR are granted in tandem, as designated in the relevant Award Agreements, such tandem Option shall be cancelled to the extent that the shares of Common Stock subject to such Option are used to calculate amounts or shares receivable upon the exercise of the related tandem SAR. The tandem SAR shall expire when the period of the subject Option expires. Participants to whom a tandem SAR has been granted shall be notified of such grant and of the Options to which such SAR pertains. A tandem SAR may be revoked by the Committee, in its sole discretion, at any time, provided, however, that no such revocation may be taken hereunder if such action would result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section.
(ii)           At the time a Participant converts one or more shares of Common Stock covered by an Option to cash pursuant to a SAR, such Participant must exercise one or more Nonqualified Stock Options, which were granted at the same time as the Option subject to such SAR, for an equal number of shares of Common Stock. In the event that the number of shares and the Option Price per share of all shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Options is adjusted as provided in the Plan, the above SARs shall automatically be adjusted in the same ratio which reflects the adjustment to the number of shares and the Option Price per share of all shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Options.
8.           STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
The Committee or its delegate may from time to time designate those Participants who shall receive Awards of Stock Appreciation Rights. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, a SAR granted under the Plan shall confer on the holder thereof a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, the excess of the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock at the time the Participants SAR is granted and the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of conversion. A SAR may be revoked by the Committee, in its sole discretion, at any time, provided, however, that no such revocation may be taken hereunder if such action would result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section.
(a)           Grant. A SAR may be granted in addition to any other Award under the Plan or in tandem with or independent of a Nonqualified Stock Option.
 
7
 
(b)           Grant Price. The Grant Price shall be determined by the Committee, provided, however, that such price shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the SAR, except that if a SAR is at any time granted in tandem to an Option, the grant price of the SAR shall not be less than the exercise price of such Option.
(c)           Term. The term of each SAR shall be such period of time as is fixed by the Committee; provided, however, that the term of any SAR shall not exceed ten (10) years from the date of grant. The Committee in its discretion at the time of grant may establish Performance Goals that may affect the grant, exercise and/or settlement of a SAR.
(d)           Time and Method of Exercise. The Committee shall establish in the applicable Award Agreement the time or times at which a SAR may be exercised in whole or in part.
(e)           Form of Payment. Payment may be made to the Participant in respect thereof in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or any combination thereof, as the Committee in its sole discretion, shall determine and provide in the relevant Award Agreement. If stock-settled SARs are issued and paid, the gross amount of the Award shall be counted against the Plan.
9.           RESTRICTED SHARES
The Committee or its delegate may from time to time designate those Participants who shall receive Awards of Restricted Shares. Each grant of Restricted Shares under the Plan shall be evidenced by an agreement which shall be executed by the Corporation and the Participant. The agreement shall contain such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as shall be determined by the Committee and shall indicate the number of Restricted Shares awarded and the following terms and conditions of the award.
(a)           Grant of Restricted Shares. The Committee shall determine the number of Restricted Shares to be included in the grant and the period or periods during which the Transferability Restrictions applicable to the Restricted Shares will be in force (the Restricted Period). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, the Restricted Period shall be for a minimum of three years and shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant, as determined by the Committee at the time of grant. The Restricted Period may be the same for all Restricted Shares granted at a particular time to any one Participant or may be different with respect to different Participants or with respect to various of the Restricted Shares granted to the same Participant, all as determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
(b)           Transferability Restrictions. During the Restricted Period, Restricted Shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of, or mortgaged, pledged or otherwise encumbered. Furthermore, a Participants right, if any, to receive Common Stock upon termination of the Restricted Period may not be assigned or transferred except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. In order to enforce the limitations imposed upon the Restricted Shares the Committee may (i) cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates, and/or (ii) issue stop transfer instructions as it deems necessary or appropriate. Holders of Restricted Shares limited as to sale under this subsection 9(b) shall have rights as a stockholder with respect to such shares to receive dividends in cash or other property or other distribution or rights in respect of such shares, and to vote such shares as the record owner thereof. With respect to each grant of Restricted Shares, the Committee shall determine the Transferability Restrictions which will apply to the Restricted Shares for all or part of the Restricted Period. By way of illustration but not by way of limitation, the Committee may provide (i) that the Participant will not be entitled to receive any shares of Common Stock unless he or she is still employed by the Corporation or its Affiliates at the end of the Restricted Period, (ii) that the Participant will become vested in Restricted Shares according to a schedule determined by the Committee, or under other terms and conditions, including Performance Goals, determined by the Committee, and (iii) how any Transferability Restrictions will be applied, modified or accelerated in the case of the Participants death or Total and Permanent Disability.
 
8
 
(c)           Manner of Holding and Delivering Restricted Shares. Each certificate issued for Restricted Shares shall be registered in the name of the Participant and deposited with the Corporation or its designee. These certificates shall remain in the possession of the Corporation or its designee until the end of the applicable Restricted Period or, if the Committee has provided for earlier termination of the Transferability Restrictions following a Participants death, Total and Permanent Disability or earlier vesting of the shares of Common Stock, such earlier termination of the Transferability Restrictions. At whichever time is applicable, certificates representing the number of shares to which the Participant is then entitled shall be delivered to the Participant free and clear of the Transferability Restrictions; provided that in the case of a Participant who is not entitled to receive the full number of Shares evidenced by the certificates then being released from escrow because of the application of the Transferability Restrictions, those certificates shall be returned to the Corporation and canceled and a new certificate representing the shares of Common Stock, if any, to which the Participant is entitled pursuant to the Transferability Restrictions shall be issued and delivered to the Participant, free and clear of the Transferability Restrictions.
10.           RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS
The Committee or its delegate shall from time to time designate those Participants who shall receive Awards of Restricted Share Units. The Committee shall advise such Participants of their Awards by a letter indicating the number of Restricted Share Units awarded and the following terms and conditions of the award.
(a)           Restricted Share Units may be granted to Participants as of the first day of a Restricted Period. The number of Restricted Share Units to be granted to each Participant and the Restricted Period shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
(b)           Transferability Restrictions. During the Restricted Period, Restricted Share Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of, or mortgaged, pledged or otherwise encumbered. Furthermore, a Participants right, if any, to receive cash or Common Stock upon termination of the Restricted Period may not be assigned or transferred except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. With respect to each grant of Restricted Share Units, the Committee shall determine the Transferability Restrictions which will apply to the Restricted Share Units for all or part of the Restricted Period. By way of illustration but not by way of limitation, the Committee may provide (i) that the Participant will forfeit any Restricted Share Units unless he or she is still employed by the Corporation or its Affiliates at the end of the Restricted Period, (ii) that the Participant will forfeit any or all Restricted Share Units unless he or she has met the Performance Goals according to the schedule determined by the Committee, (iii) that the Participant will become vested in Restricted Share Units according to a schedule determined by the Committee, or under other terms and conditions, including Performance Goals, determined by the Committee, and (iv) how any Transferability Restrictions will be applied, modified or accelerated in the case of the Participants death or Total and Permanent Disability.
(c)           Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, (i) during the Restricted Period, Participants will be credited with dividend equivalents equal in value to those declared and paid on shares of Common Stock, on all Restricted Share Units granted to them, (ii) these dividends will be regarded as having been reinvested in Restricted Share Units on the date of the Common Stock dividend payments based on the then Fair Market Value of the Common Stock thereby increasing the number of Restricted Share Units held by a Participant, and (iii) such dividend equivalents will be paid only to the extent the underlying Awards vest. Holders of Restricted Share Units under this subsection 10(c) shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to such shares. Holders of Restricted Share Units are not entitled to receive distribution of rights in respect of such shares, nor to vote such shares as the record owner thereof.
(d)           Payment of Restricted Share Units. The payment of Restricted Share Units shall be made in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both, as determined by the Committee at the time of grant. The payment of Restricted Share Units shall be made within 90 days following the end of the Restricted Period.
 
9
 
 
11.           PERFORMANCE AWARDS
The Committee or its delegate may from time to time designate those Participants who shall receive Performance Awards. Performance Awards include arrangements under which the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or transferability of any Award is subject to such Performance Goals, Transferability Restrictions and such additional conditions or terms as the Committee may designate. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, a Performance Award granted under the Plan:
(a)           may be denominated or payable in cash, Common Stock (including, without limitation, Restricted Shares), other securities, or other Awards;
(b)           shall confer on the holder thereof rights valued as determined by the Committee and payable to, or exercisable by, the holder of the Performance Award, in whole or in part, upon the achievement of such Performance Goals during such performance periods as the Committee shall establish; and
(c)           as specified in the relevant Award Agreement, the Committee may provide that Performance Awards denominated in shares earn dividend equivalents. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, dividend equivalents for Performance Awards will accrue and will not be paid unless and until the underlying Awards vest.
12.           OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS
The Committee or its delegate may from time to time designate those Participants who shall receive such other Awards (Other Stock-Based Awards) that are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Common Stock), as are deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, provided, however, that such grants must comply with applicable law. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions, including Performance Goals and Transferability Restrictions, of such Awards. Common Stock or other securities delivered pursuant to a purchase right granted under this Section 12 shall be purchased for such consideration, which may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms, including, without limitation, cash, Common Stock, other securities, or other Awards, or any combination thereof, as the Committee shall determine, the value of which consideration, as established by the Committee shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of such Common Stock or other securities as of the date such purchase right is granted.
13.           VESTING
An Award (other than Awards subject to Performance Goals) may not vest in whole in less than three years from the date of grant (although individual Award shares may vest in annual installments over a period of not less than three years). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in certain limited situations such as for new hires, retirement and certain other limited situations warranting a shorter or no vesting period, as may be determined by the Committee, these Awards may vest in whole in less than three years from the date of grant; provided, however, that these Awards do not constitute more than ten percent (10%) of the shares of Common Stock covered by all Awards granted within any calendar year period. Awards subject to Performance Goals may not vest in whole in less than one year from the date of grant.
14.           GOVERNMENT SERVICE, LEAVES OF ABSENCE AND OTHER TERMINATIONS
(a)             In the event the Participants employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate is terminated by reason of a shutdown or divestiture of all or a portion of the Corporations or its Affiliates business, a proportion of the Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Unit Award shall be considered to vest as of the Participants termination of employment. The number of shares that shall vest shall be prorated for the number of full years of employment during the Restricted Period prior to the Participants termination of employment. In the event the number of Restricted Shares or Restricted Share Units was to be determined by the attainment of Performance Goals according to a schedule determined by the Committee the number of shares that are considered to vest shall be determined at the end of the Restricted Period, prorated for the number of full years of employment during the Restricted Period prior to the Participants termination of employment, and shall be paid within 90 days following the end of the Restricted Period.
 
10
 
(b)             In the event of a Qualified Termination of Employment of a Participant, all of the Awards that were not subject to Performance Goals shall be considered to vest immediately. For Awards subject to Performance Goals, (i) with respect to a grant prior to January 1, 2010, with a performance period starting on or before January 1, 2009, the number of shares that shall be considered to vest shall be the greater of the target level established or the number of shares which would have vested based on the attainment of the Performance Goal as of the end of the prior calendar year, and (ii) with respect to a grant on or after January 1, 2010, with a performance period starting after January 1, 2009, a severance amount shall be paid equal to the Average PRSU Payout multiplied by the number of annual applicable Awards subject to Performance Goals with a performance period starting after January 1, 2009 which are forfeited due to the Qualified Termination of Employment and the forfeited Awards determined by the attainment of Performance Goals according to a schedule determined by the Committee will not be paid. For purposes of this subsection 14(b), the Average PRSU Payout shall mean the three year average of the dollar amount of the restricted shares and/or restricted share units determined by the attainment of performance goals (the PRSUs) awards paid to the Participant under the Plan. The three year average of the PRSUs paid to the Participant will be determined based on the higher of two dollar amount averages computed during alternative three year periods consisting of either (i) the year in which the relevant date occurred (or, if the award is not yet paid as of the relevant date, for the preceding year) and the two preceding years or, (ii) the year of the Qualified Termination of Employment (or, if the award is not yet paid as of the Qualified Termination of Employment, for the preceding year) and the two preceding years. If a Participant has been paid less than three years of PRSUs, the three year average of the PRSUs paid to the Participant will be determined based on the average dollar amount of the PRSUs paid in prior years to the Participant under the Plan. If a Participant has not received any prior payment of PRSUs, the Average PRSU Payout will be determined as follows:
(1)           For a Participant classified at the Corporations Grade 1 through 6 level, as defined by the Corporations Compensation Department, the Average PRSU Payout shall be calculated based on the prior three year average PRSU payment to other employees at the same grade level.
(2)           For a Participant at the Global Senior Leadership Team level (except for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation), the Average PRSU Payout shall be calculated based on the prior three year average PRSU payment to Participants at GSLT level.
(3)           For the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, the Average PRSU Payout shall be calculated based on the prior three year average PRSU payment to the previous Chief Executive Officer(s) of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no severance amount shall be paid to any Participant with respect to any Awards to the extent that the Participant is entitled to receive payment under the Kimberly-Clark Executive Severance Plan. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, this definition may be amended at the discretion of the Committee to allow any amounts payable by the Corporation to comply with the definition of performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder).
(c)           If, pending a Change of Control, the Committee determines the Common Stock will cease to exist without an adequate replacement security that preserves Participants economic rights and positions, then, by action of the Committee, the following shall occur:
(i)           All Options and SARs, except for Incentive Stock Options, shall become exercisable immediately prior to the consummation of the Change of Control in such manner as is deemed fair and equitable by the Committee.
(ii)           The restrictions on all Restricted Shares shall lapse, and all Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards shall vest immediately prior to consummation of the Change of Control and shall be settled upon the Change of Control in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards at the time of the Change of Control. Provided, however, that any Restricted Share Units that are required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder shall be settled in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
 
11
 
 
(d)           A termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred while a Participant is on military leave or other bona fide leave of absence if the period of such leave does not exceed six months, or if longer, so long as the Participant retains a right to reemployment with the Corporation or an Affiliate under an applicable statute or by contract. For purposes of this subparagraph, a leave of absence constitutes a bona fide leave of absence only if there is a reasonable expectation that the Participant will return to perform services for the Corporation or an Affiliate. If the period of leave exceeds six months and the Participant does not retain a right to reemployment under an applicable statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first date immediately following such six-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, where a leave of absence is due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, where such impairment causes the Participant to be unable to perform the duties of his or her position of employment or any substantially similar position of employment, a 29-month period of absence is substituted for such six-month period in determining whether a termination of employment shall be deemed to have occurred. A termination of employment with the Corporation or an Affiliate to accept immediate reemployment with the Corporation or an Affiliate likewise shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan. A Participant who is classified as an intermittent employee shall be deemed to have a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a termination of employment with respect to any Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards that are required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder shall not be deemed to be a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan if it is anticipated that the level of bona fide services the Participant would perform after such date would continue at a rate equal to more than 20 percent (20%) of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period of services to the Corporation or an Affiliate if the Participant has been providing such services less than 36 months).
(e)           If any amounts payable under the Plan would constitute a parachute payment under Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code then such amounts shall be reduced to the extent necessary to provide the Participant with the greatest aggregate net after tax receipt as determined by applying the procedures set forth in the Committee Rules.
15.           SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
(a)           The number of shares of Common Stock available with respect to all Awards that may be issued under the Plan shall not exceed 67,000,000 in the aggregate, consisting of 17,000,000 newly authorized shares, plus up to 50,000,000 shares which on April 21, 2011 are previously authorized but not awarded under the Corporations original 2001 Equity Participation Plan.
(b)           In no event shall more than 23,000,000 shares of Common Stock be available for grant as Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards settled in shares of Common Stock, and all Other Stock-Based Awards settled in shares of Common Stock (the Stock Award Pool), in each case subject to the adjustment provision set forth in Section 17 hereof.
(c)           Shares subject to (i) Options and SARs which become ineligible for purchase, (ii) Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards which are retired through forfeiture or maturity, other than those which are retired through the payment of Common Stock, and (iii) Restricted Shares which are forfeited during the Restricted Period due to any applicable Transferability Restrictions will be available for Awards under the Plan to the extent permitted by Section 16 of the Exchange Act (or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) and to the extent determined to be appropriate by the Committee.
(d)           The total number of shares of Common Stock available for Awards under the Plan shall be reduced by the maximum number of shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise or settlement of Options and SARs granted, as well as shares of Common Stock retained or withheld by the Corporation in satisfaction of a Participants withholding (as defined in subsection 20(j) below). Shares that were subject to an Option or SAR and were not issued upon the net settlement or net exercised of such Option or SAR may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan. All other Awards (except Restricted Share Units subject to Performance Goals, Performance Awards, Other Stock-Based Awards subject to Performance Goals and dividend equivalents thereof) shall reduce the total number of shares available for Awards under the Stock Award Pool by the number of shares of Common Stock vested under the Award. Restricted Share Units subject to Performance Goals, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards subject to Performance Goals shall reduce the total number of shares available for Awards under the Stock Award Pool by the target number of shares of Common Stock to be issued under grants of Restricted Share Units subject to Performance Goals, grants of Performance Awards and grants of Other Stock-Based Awards, and the number of shares of Common Stock will then be adjusted accordingly upon actual vesting of such Awards. Dividend equivalents on Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards subject to Performance Goals shall reduce the total number of shares available for Awards under the Stock Award Pool by the number of shares of Common Stock vested upon vesting of the underlying Award. Any Award that may be settled only in cash shall reduce the number of shares available for Awards, including, as applicable, the Stock Award Pool.
 
12
 
(e)           The shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan may consist in whole or in part of authorized but unissued shares or of treasury shares, as the Board may from time to time determine.
16.           INDIVIDUAL LIMITS
The maximum number of shares of Common Stock covered by Awards which may be granted to any Participant within any calendar year period shall not exceed 1,500,000 in the aggregate, except that in connection with a newly-hired Participants initial service, a Participant may be granted Awards covering up to an additional 1,500,000 shares of Common Stock. If an Option which had been granted to a Participant is canceled, the shares of Common Stock which had been subject to such canceled Option shall continue to be counted against the maximum number of shares for which Options may be granted to the Participant. In the event that the number of Options which may be granted is adjusted as provided in the Plan, the above limits shall automatically be adjusted in the same ratio which reflects the adjustment to the number of Options available under the Plan.
17.           CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION
In the event there are any changes in the Common Stock or the capitalization of the Corporation through a corporate transaction, such as any merger, any acquisition through the issuance of capital stock of the Corporation, any consolidation, combination, or exchange of shares, any separation of the Corporation (including a spin-off, split-up or other distribution of stock of the Corporation), any reorganization of the Corporation (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Code), or any partial or complete liquidation by the Corporation, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend or other change in the corporate structure, appropriate adjustments and changes shall be made by the Committee, to the extent necessary to preserve the benefit to the Participant contemplated hereby, to reflect such changes in (a) the aggregate number of shares subject to the Plan, (b) the maximum number of shares subject to the Plan, (c) the maximum number of shares for which Awards may be granted to any Participant, (d) the number of shares and the Option Price per share of all shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Options, (e) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock covered by Awards which may be granted by the Chief Executive Officer within any calendar year period, (f) the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for option and sale and available for grant as Restricted Shares and Restricted Share Units, (g) the number of Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards awarded to Participants, and (h) such other provisions of the Plan and individual Awards as may be necessary and equitable to carry out the foregoing purposes, provided, however that no such adjustment or change may be made to the extent that such adjustment or change will result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section.
18.           EFFECT ON OTHER PLANS
All payments and benefits under the Plan shall constitute special compensation and shall not affect the level of benefits provided to or received by any Participant (or the Participants estate or beneficiaries) as part of any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or an Affiliate. The Plan shall not be construed to affect in any way a Participants rights and obligations under any other plan maintained by the Corporation or an Affiliate on behalf of employees.
19.           TERM OF THE PLAN
The term of the Plan, as amended and restated, shall be ten years, beginning April 21, 2011, and ending April 20, 2021, unless the Plan is terminated prior thereto by the Committee. No Award may be granted or awarded after the termination date of the Plan, but Awards theretofore granted or awarded shall continue in force beyond that date pursuant to their terms.
 
13
 
 
20.           GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a)           No Right of Continued Employment. Neither the establishment of the Plan nor the payment of any benefits hereunder nor any action of the Corporation, its Affiliates, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or its Affiliates, or the Committee shall be held or construed to confer upon any person any legal right to be continued in the employ of the Corporation or its Affiliates, and the Corporation and its Affiliates expressly reserve the right to discharge any Participant without liability to the Corporation, its Affiliates, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or its Affiliates or the Committee, except as to any rights which may be expressly conferred upon a Participant under the Plan.
(b)           Binding Effect. Any decision made or action taken by the Corporation, the Board or by the Committee arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation and effect of the Plan shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons. Notwithstanding anything in Section 3 to the contrary, the Committee may determine in its sole discretion whether a termination of employment for purposes of the Plan is caused by disability, retirement or for other reasons.
(c)           Modification of Awards. The Committee may in its sole and absolute discretion, by written notice to a Participant, (i) limit the period in which an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised to a period ending at least three months following the date of such notice, (ii) limit or eliminate the number of shares subject to an Incentive Stock Option after a period ending at least three months following the date of such notice, (iii) accelerate the Restricted Period with respect to the Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards granted under the Plan, (iv) subject any Performance-Based Award or any other Award subject to Performance Goals to any policy adopted by the Corporation relating to the recovery of such Award to the extent it is determined that the Performance Goals were not actually achieved and/or (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Common Stock, other securities or other Awards, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended, and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended. Notwithstanding anything in this subsection 20(c) to the contrary, the Committee may not take any action to the extent that such action would result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section. Provided however, that any Restricted Share Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards that are required to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder shall be settled in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. Except as provided in this subsection and in subsection 20(d) no amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan or any Awards under the Plan shall, without the consent of the Participant, adversely alter or change any of the rights or obligations under any Awards or other rights previously granted the Participant.
(d)           Nonresident Aliens. In the case of any Award granted to a Participant who is not a resident of the United States or who is employed by an Affiliate other than an Affiliate that is incorporated, or whose place of business is, in a State of the United States, the Committee may (i) waive or alter the terms and conditions of any Awards to the extent that such action is necessary to conform such Award to applicable foreign law, (ii) determine which Participants, countries and Affiliates are eligible to participate in the Plan, (iii) modify the terms and conditions of any Awards granted to Participants who are employed outside the United States, (iv) establish subplans, each of which shall be attached as an appendix hereto, modify Option exercise procedures and other terms and procedures to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable, and (v) take any action, either before or after the Award is made, which is deemed advisable to obtain approval of such Award by an appropriate governmental entity; provided, however, that no action may be taken hereunder if such action would (i) materially increase any benefits accruing to any Participants under the Plan, (ii) increase the number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan, (iii) modify the requirements for eligibility to participate in the Plan, (iv) result in a failure to comply with applicable provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act or the Code or (v) result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section.
(e)           No Segregation of Cash or Stock. The Restricted Share Unit accounts established for Participants are merely a bookkeeping convenience and neither the Corporation nor its Affiliates shall be required to segregate any cash or stock which may at any time be represented by Awards. Nor shall anything provided herein be construed as providing for such segregation. Neither the Corporation, its Affiliates, the Board nor the Committee shall, by any provisions of the Plan, be deemed to be a trustee of any property, and the liability of the Corporation or its Affiliates to any Participant pursuant to the Plan shall be those of a debtor pursuant to such contract obligations as are created by the Plan, and no such obligation of the Corporation or its Affiliates shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Corporation or its Affiliates.
 
 
14
 
 
(f)           Non-transferability. During the Participants lifetime, Options shall be exercisable only by such Participant. Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution upon the Participants death. Notwithstanding anything in this subsection 20(f) to the contrary, the Committee may grant to designated Participants the right to transfer Awards, to the extent allowed under Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, subject to the terms and conditions of the Committee Rules.
Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no benefit payable under or interest in the Plan shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any such attempted action shall be void and no such benefit or interest shall be in any manner liable for or subject to debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements, or torts of any Participant or beneficiary.
(g)           Delaware Law to Govern. All questions pertaining to the construction, interpretation, regulation, validity and effect of the provisions of the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
(h)           Purchase of Common Stock. The Corporation and its Affiliates may purchase from time to time shares of Common Stock in such amounts as they may determine for purposes of the Plan. The Corporation and its Affiliates shall have no obligation to retain, and shall have the unlimited right to sell or otherwise deal with for their own account, any shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to this paragraph.
(i)           Use of Proceeds. The proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of Options shall be used for general corporate purposes.
(j)           Withholding. The Committee shall require the withholding of all taxes as required by law. In the case of exercise of an Option or payments of Awards whether in cash or in shares of Common Stock or other securities, withholding shall be as required by law and the Committee Rules.
(k)           Amendments. The Committee may at any time amend, suspend, or discontinue the Plan or alter or amend any or all Awards and Award Agreements under the Plan to the extent (1) permitted by law, (2) permitted by the rules of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock or any other security of the Corporation is listed, (3) permitted under applicable provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act (including Rule 16b-3 thereof); and (4) that such action would not result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Corporation under Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor section (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder); provided, however, that if any of the foregoing requires the approval by stockholders of any such amendment, suspension or discontinuance, then the Committee may take such action subject to the approval of the stockholders. Except as provided in subsections 20(c) and 20(d) no such amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the Participant, adversely alter or change any of the rights or obligations under any Awards or other rights previously granted the Participant.
(l)           Section 409A of the Code. To the extent that any Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code, such Award and the Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and shall be limited, construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. Such Award shall be paid in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including the final treasury regulations or any other official guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto.
 
 
15
 


