FILE:KMB/KMB-8K-20110615103915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)           On June 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of Kimberly-Clark Corporation (the Corporation) elected Fabian T. Garcia to the Board of Directors, effective September 1, 2011. Mr. Garcia is Chief Operating Officer, Global Innovation and Growth, & Europe of Colgate-Palmolive Company.  Mr. Garcia was also appointed to the Management Development and Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, effective September 1, 2011.  Mr. Garcia will participate in the Corporations 2011 Outside Directors Compensation Plan.
 
A copy of the news release announcing the election of Mr. Garcia to the Corporations Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d)      Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1   News release issued by Kimberly-Clark Corporation on June 15, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Stephanie Anderson Forest
972-281-1389
stephanie.a.forest@kcc.com
DALLAS, TX (June 15, 2011)  Kimberly-Clark Corporation (NYSE: KMB) today announced that Fabian T. Garcia, chief operating officer, Global Innovation and Growth, & Europe for Colgate-Palmolive Company, was elected to its board of directors, effective September 1, 2011.
Mr. Garcia, 51, joined Colgate-Palmolive, a leading global consumer products company, in 2003. Since then, he has held several progressive leadership positions including president, Colgate Greater Asia, and executive vice president and president, Latin American and Global Sustainability. Prior to joining Colgate, Mr. Garcia was senior vice president of International Operations at the Timberland Company. Before that, Mr. Garcia served as president, Chanel Asia Pacific Pte Limited, Chanel S.A., and also in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company.
Fabian will be a great addition to our board given his broad range of multi-cultural experiences and strong leadership capabilities, said Craig Sullivan, chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Kimberly-Clarks board of directors and retired chairman and chief executive officer of The Clorox Company.
Thomas J. Falk, chairman and chief executive officer of Kimberly-Clark, said Fabian has a strong track record of brand building and delivering results. This experience, combined with his strong international background, will greatly benefit our company.
Mr. Garcia earned his Bachelors Degree in Chemical Engineering from Simon Bolivar University.
 
About Kimberly-Clark
 
Kimberly-Clark and its well-known global brands are an indispensable part of life for people in more than 150 countries.  Every day, 1.3 billion people - nearly a quarter of the world's population - trust K-C brands and the solutions they provide to enhance their health, hygiene and well-being. With brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend, Kimberly-Clark holds No. 1 or No. 2 share positions in more than 80 countries.  To keep up with the latest K-C news and to learn more about the company's 139-year history of innovation, visit www.kimberly-clark.com.


