FILE:KR/KR-8K-20030311115534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: March 11, 2003 THE KROGER CO. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) An Ohio Corporation No. 1-303 31-0345740 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File (IRS Employer of incorporation) Number) Number) 1014 Vine Street Cincinnati, OH 45201 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number: (513) 762-4000
Item 5. Other Events On March 11, 2003, the Company released its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2002 and for fiscal year 2002. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is the text of that release. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits (c) Exhibits: 99.1 Earnings release for fourth quarter 2002 and fiscal year 2002. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure 2003 Guidance: Economic and competitive environment - Unchanged Earnings per diluted share - $1.63, including $0.02 of expense for systems conversion and consolidation of Michigan and Columbus divisions Square footage growth - 2.5-3.0%, excluding acquisitions and operational closings Identical store sales growth goal (including supermarket fuel sales) - Positive for the year Capital expenditures - $2.0 billion, excluding acquisitions and the final synthetic lease buyout Depreciation - $1,175-1,200 million Interest expense - $575-595 million, based on the current interest rate environment Diluted shares outstanding - Beginning of 2003 = 770 million End of 2003 = 755 million Average outstanding for the year = 763 million OG&A - Increase 40-50 basis points FIFO gross profit - Increase 20-30 basis points LIFO - $35 million charge
Net operating working capital reduction - $100 million Tax rate - 37.5% Inflation estimate - 0% New, relocated or expanded stores - 100-110, excluding acquisitions Remodels - 160-200 Supermarket fuel stations - 100-110 Pension discount rate - 6.75% Pension assumed rate of return - 8.50% Labor: During fiscal 2003, UFCW collective bargaining agreements will expire in Toledo, Peoria, Portland, Memphis, Southern California, Charleston, WV, Arizona, and Indianapolis, among other labor agreements expiring this year. Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and earnings could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. In addition, increases in sales of our corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget. Our ability to meet working capital reduction targets could be adversely affected by increases in product costs, newly opened or consolidated distribution centers, our ability to achieve sales growth from new square footage, competitive activity in the markets in which we operate, changes in our product mix, and changes in laws and regulations. Square footage growth and the number of store projects completed during the year are dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. Depreciation and amortization may vary from our estimates due to the timing of new store openings. Interest expense will vary with changes in capital markets and the amount of debt that we have outstanding. LIFO will be affected by vendor promotions and changes in the cost of inventory. While we expect to achieve benefits through logistics and technology, development of new systems and integration of systems due to our merger with Fred Meyer carry inherent uncertainties, and we may not achieve the expected benefits. Unforeseen difficulties in integrating any acquired entity with Kroger could adversely affect our ability to meet our other expectations. The average diluted shares outstanding may vary based on the market price of our stock, the number of shares we repurchase and the number of stock awards made during the year. The amount and timing of future one-time, merger-related costs could be adversely affected by our ability to convert remaining systems as planned and on budget. The cost associated with implementation of our strategic growth plan, as well as the amount and timing of our expected cost reductions, could be affected by a worsening economy, increased competitive pressures, and any inability on our part to implement the strategic growth plan when expected. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized. THE KROGER CO. March 11, 2003 By: (Paul Heldman) Paul Heldman Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Exhibit - ---------- ------- 99.1 Earnings release for fourth quarter 2002 and fiscal year 2002.

Exhibit 99.1 KROGER REPORTS EARNINGS OF $0.49 PER DILUTED SHARE, BEFORE ONE-TIME ITEMS, FOR FOURTH QUARTER OF 2002 In 2002, Company Generated Record Free Cash Flow of $1.3 Billion and Reduced Net Total Debt by $414 Million CINCINNATI, OH, March 11, 2003 -- The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported earnings of $0.49 per diluted share, before one-time items, for the fourth quarter ended February 1, 2003. These results are equal to the year-ago quarter on the same basis. One-time items during the quarter included expenses of $7.6 million pre-tax associated with systems conversions and other merger-related items, and income of $15.2 million pre-tax from the mark-to-market of the excess energy contracts in California. Collectively, these one-time items increased Kroger's fourth quarter net earnings by $7.6 million pre-tax or $4.5 million after tax ($0.01 per diluted share). Including these items, net earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 were $381.0 million, versus $368.5 million a year ago. Net earnings per diluted share were $0.50, compared to $0.45 a year ago. The year-ago earnings figures have been adjusted for the elimination of goodwill as required by FASB 142. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on Issue 02-16 that addresses the method by which retailers account for allowances from vendors. Issue 02-16 became effective January 1, 2003. Net earnings were not affected by the adoption of Issue 02-16. The FIFO gross profit effect of adopting Issue 02-16, which affected less than 1% 1
of the annual vendor allowances earned by Kroger, was $27.6 million pre-tax. This expense was offset by a corresponding $27.6 million pre-tax LIFO credit. Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, LIFO, extraordinary and one-time items) for the fourth quarter of 2002 totaled $974.4 million, a decrease of 4.5% from a year ago. Total sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 increased 2.8% to $12.5 billion. Total food-store sales rose 2.4%. Identical food-store sales, including fuel, declined 1.0%. Identical food-store sales, excluding fuel, decreased 1.8%. Comparable food-store sales, which include relocations and expansions, decreased 0.3% for the quarter. Comparable food-store sales, excluding fuel, declined 1.2%. Kroger estimates that its product cost deflation, including fuel, was flat. Deflation, excluding fuel, was negative 0.5% in the quarter. "Sales during the holiday season were soft amid consumer concerns about the weak economy, high unemployment and uncertainty over a possible war. Competition remains intense and consolidation is continuing at a rapid pace," said Joseph A. Pichler, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "We continue to believe that the price reductions Kroger is making as part of our Strategic Growth Plan enable us to compete more effectively in this environment. Our identical food-store sales through the first five weeks of fiscal 2003 are trending higher than our results for the fourth quarter of 2002. We have benefited from both the weather and the continued implementation of our Plan." In the fourth quarter: . FIFO gross profit margin was 27.10%, a decrease of 61 basis points from a year ago, reflecting continued investment in the Strategic Growth Plan. For the year, FIFO gross profit margin declined by 33 basis points. FIFO gross profit margin excludes one-time expenses and the adoption of Issue 02-16. . Operating, general and administrative costs, before one-time expenses, increased 5 basis points to 18.10%. The fourth-quarter OG&A results reflect soft sales, rising health care and pension costs, and higher credit card fees. OG&A for the full year, excluding one-time 2
items, decreased 7 basis points. As in the past, Kroger's OG&A calculations exclude depreciation and rent. . Net operating working capital totaled $337 million, a reduction of $193 million from a year ago. Net operating working capital improved $367 million as compared to the fourth quarter of 1999. The Company continues to make progress toward its goal of reducing net operating working capital by $500 million from the benchmark announced in the third quarter of 1999. . Net total debt was $8.1 billion, a decrease of $414 million as compared to the fourth quarter of 2001. Net total debt improved to 2.16 times adjusted EBITDA, as compared to 2.27 times in the fourth quarter of 2001. This represents the best fourth-quarter coverage since Kroger's financial restructuring in 1988. The Company continues to make progress toward the goal of net total debt equal to 2.0 times adjusted EBITDA. . Kroger repurchased 7.4 million shares of common stock at an average price of $15.43 per share, for a total investment of $113.4 million. Since January 2000, Kroger has invested $2.1 billion to repurchase 101.7 million shares. At year-end, Kroger had $446 million remaining under the $500 million repurchase program authorized in the fourth quarter. At current prices, Kroger continues to repurchase shares. Mr. Pichler said that Kroger generated record free cash flow of $1.3 billion in 2002, well above the Company's third-quarter guidance of $900 million, as a result of the reduction in net operating working capital and lower capital expenditures. This performance enabled the Company to repurchase stock, reduce debt and execute a strong capital investment program, he said. During the fourth quarter of 2002, Kroger opened, expanded, relocated or acquired 49 food stores. Total food store square footage increased 4.3% over the prior year. Including acquisitions, capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $458 million. 3
For the full year, Kroger opened, expanded, relocated or acquired 151 food stores. The Company also completed 138 remodels. Capital expenditures for the year were $2.0 billion, including a synthetic lease buyout of $192 million and acquisitions of $119 million. In the second quarter of 1998, before the Fred Meyer merger, Kroger changed its method of accounting for certain store inventories from the retail method to the item cost method. The change improved the accuracy of product cost calculations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, Kroger adopted the item cost method for the former Fred Meyer divisions. As a result, Kroger incurred a non-cash charge of $90.7 million pre-tax. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles require that this change be reflected in the first quarter of the fiscal year in which the change was adopted. This change will be reflected in the quarterly information that will be provided in Kroger's 10-K for fiscal 2002. For fiscal 2002, sales increased 3.3% to $51.8 billion. Earnings from operations were $1.65 per diluted share, compared to $1.59 per diluted share in 2001. Earnings from operations for 2002 totaled $1.3 billion, equal to 2001. Results for both years exclude the items listed in Table 3 attached to this press release. Adjusted EBITDA totaled $3.749 billion for the year, as compared to $3.742 billion in 2001. Net earnings for 2002 were $1.52 per diluted share as compared to $1.37 in 2001. The 2001 earnings figure has been adjusted for the elimination of goodwill amortization as required by FASB 142. Looking ahead, the Company estimates that net earnings will be $1.63 per diluted share in fiscal 2003. This estimate is consistent with Kroger's previous guidance of $1.65, less $0.02 of expense in 2003 for systems conversions and the recently announced consolidation of Kroger's Michigan and Columbus divisions. The effect of any gain or expense from the mark-to-market of the excess energy contracts in California is excluded from Kroger's 2003 earnings guidance because it is not possible to estimate an effect at this time. Kroger expects identical food-store sales, including fuel, to be positive for 2003. These 4
estimates assume that inflation will be flat in 2003 and that the economic and competitive environment remains unchanged. Additional 2003 guidance will be included in Kroger's Form 8-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission today. "I believe that Kroger's Strategic Growth Plan is the appropriate response to the economic and competitive conditions in the food retail industry," said Mr. Pichler. "Through the end of fiscal 2002, Kroger had achieved cost savings of $306 million. We expect to exceed the Plan's original goal of $500 million in savings by the end of 2003. Kroger is narrowing the price gap with discount operators and extending our price advantage over traditional competitors in most markets. The Company expects to continue the implementation of the Plan in 2003 by improving our competitive price position on key items in selected categories and markets, offering better value for our customers. "Kroger's considerable financial strength is a competitive advantage. We have the financial resources to continue making the price investments necessary to build our business, remodel and expand our store base, and increase our market share. As a result, Kroger is well positioned to continue generating strong free cash flow and build shareholder value," he said. Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of fiscal 2002, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,488 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under approximately two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 784 convenience stores, 441 fine jewelry stores, 376 supermarket fuel centers and 41 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at www.kroger.com # # # This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of 5
the information currently available to it. Such statements relate to, among other things: projected sales and earnings per share; working capital reduction; a decline in net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio; reductions in OG&A; changes in cash flow; increases in health care, pension costs, credit card fees and changes in utility costs; and our Strategic Growth Plan; and are indicated by the words or phrases such as "comfortable," "committed," "expects," "estimate," and "goal." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our ability to achieve sales and earnings per share goals will be affected primarily by: pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including inflationary trends in certain commodities; and the success of our Strategic Growth Plan announced in December 2001. In addition to the factors identified above, our identical store sales growth could be affected by increases in Kroger private-label sales as well as the impact of "sister stores." Kroger's EPS goals could be affected by: sales performance; competitive actions; recessionary trends in the economy; our ability to achieve the cost reductions that we have identified, including those to reduce shrink and OG&A; continued increases in health care, pension and credit card fees; changes in utility costs; and the success of our capital investments. Our efforts to meet our working capital reduction targets could be adversely affected by: increases in product costs; newly opened or consolidated distribution centers; our ability to achieve sales growth from new square footage; competitive activity in the markets in which we operate; changes in our product mix; and changes in laws and regulations. Our ability to reduce our net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio could be adversely affected by: our ability to generate sales growth and free cash flow; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in capital market conditions; the Company's stock repurchase activity; unexpected increases in the cost of capital investments; acquisitions; and other factors. The results of our Strategic Growth Plan and our ability to generate free cash flow to the extent expected could be adversely affected if any of the factors identified above negatively impact our operations, or if any of our underlying strategies, including those to reduce shrink and OG&A and to increase productivity, are not achieved. In addition, the timing of the execution of the Plan could adversely impact our EPS and sales results. Our expected reduction in OG&A could be affected by increased costs, such as health care, pension, credit card fees and changes in utility costs. The cost associated with implementation of our Strategic Growth Plan, as well as the amount and timing of our expected cost reductions, could be affected by a worsening economy; increased competitive pressures; and any inability on our part to implement the Strategic Growth Plan when expected. Labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could affect our ability to achieve the goals outlined above. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EST) on March 11, 2003 at www.kroger.com and www.streetevents.com. An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EDT) on March 11, 2003 through March 21, 2003. # # # Media Contact: Gary Rhodes, The Kroger Co. (513) 762-1304 Investor Contact: Kathy Kelly, The Kroger Co. (513) 762-4969 6
Table 1. THE KROGER CO. CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS WITHOUT AND WITH ONE-TIME ITEMS (in millions, except per share amounts) Note: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. Fourth quarter 2001 amounts include the amortization of goodwill. For a comparison of 2002 to 2001 without the amortization of goodwill, refer to Table 2. (a) The pre-tax items excluded from the "without" presentation, but included in the "with" presentation, are summarized below. The "restructuring charges" primarily included expenses related to the implementation of Kroger's Strategic Growth Plan. "Merger-related" charges and credits resulted from issuing and revaluing restricted stock related to merger synergies. Other costs listed as "related to mergers" primarily included severance and system conversion costs. (b) Tax expense is affected by the non-deductibility of certain one-time items. (c) The extraordinary items resulted from the early retirement of debt. These amounts are net of tax.
Table 2. THE KROGER CO. ADJUSTED QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS WITHOUT AND WITH ONE-TIME ITEMS (in millions, except per share amounts) Note: The following table adjusts net earnings, earnings from operations, net earnings per basic common share, net earnings per diluted common share, earnings from operations per common share and earnings from operations per diluted common share for the adoption of SFAS No. 142. (a) For a description of items excluded from the "without" presentation, but included in the "with" presentation, refer to Table 1. (b) The extraordinary items resulted from the early retirement of debt. The amounts are net of tax. (c) Amounts may not sum accurately due to rounding.
Table 3. THE KROGER CO. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS WITHOUT AND WITH ONE-TIME ITEMS AND THE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES (in millions, except per share amounts) Note: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. 2001 amounts include the amortization of goodwill. For a comparison of 2002 to 2001 without the amortization of goodwill, refer to Table 4. (a) The pre-tax items excluded from the "without" presentation, but included in the "with" presentation, are summarized below. The "restructuring charges" primarily included expenses related to the implementation of Kroger's Strategic Growth Plan. "Merger-related" charges and credits resulted from issuing and revaluing restricted stock related to merger synergies. Other costs listed as "related to mergers" primarily included severance and system conversion costs. (b) Tax expense is affected by the non-deductibility of certain one-time items. (c) The extraordinary items resulted from the early retirement of debt. These amounts are net of tax. (d) Adoption of SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter 2002 resulted in a $16.5 million impairment charge, net of a $9.9 million tax benefit, for the write-down of the jewelry division goodwill. (e) Per share amounts may not sum accurately due to rounding.
Table 4. THE KROGER CO. ADJUSTED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS WITHOUT AND WITH ONE-TIME ITEMS AND THE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGES (in millions, except per share amounts) Note: The following table adjusts net earnings, earnings from operations, net earnings per basic common share, net earnings per diluted common share, earnings from operations per common share and earnings from operations per diluted common share for the adoption of SFAS No. 142. (a) Adoption of SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter 2002 resulted in a $16.5 million impairment charge, net of a $9.9 million tax benefit, for the write-down of the jewelry division goodwill. (b) For a description of items excluded from the "without" presentation, but included in the "with" presentation, refer to Table 3. (c) The extraordinary items resulted from the early retirement of debt. These amounts are net of tax. (d) Per share amounts may not sum accurately due to rounding.
Table 5. THE KROGER CO. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (in millions) Note: Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. (a) Balance sheet adjustments to reflect fair value interest rate hedges of fixed rate debt, pursuant to SFAS No. 133.
Table 6. Supplemental Food Store Sales Information IDENTICAL FOOD STORE SALES
Supplemental Financial Information (in millions) Table 7. GROSS PROFIT EXCLUDING ONE-TIME ITEMS AND LIFO CHARGE (CREDIT) (a) For a description of items excluded from the "without" presentation, but included in the "with" presentation, refer to Tables 1 and 3. Table 8. OPERATING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXCLUDING ONE-TIME ITEMS (a) For a description of items excluded from the "without" presentation, but included in the "with" presentation, refer to Tables 1 and 3. Table 9. NET TOTAL DEBT
Supplemental Financial Information (in millions) Table 10. NET OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL
Supplemental Financial Information (in millions) Table 11. ADJUSTED EBITDA (a) For a description of these items refer to Tables 1 and 3.
Supplemental Financial Information (in millions) Table 12. NET TOTAL DEBT TO ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO Table 13. FREE CASH FLOW 2002 ---------------- ROLLING FOUR QUARTERS TOTAL ADJUSTED EBITDA (Table 11) $ 3,748.7 SUBTRACT: ROLLING FOUR QUARTERS TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 2,010.3 ROLLING FOUR QUARTERS TOTAL CASH PAID FOR TAXES 268.0 ROLLING FOUR QUARTERS TOTAL CASH PAID FOR INTEREST 585.0 ROLLING FOUR QUARTERS NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL (Table 10) (192.7) ADDBACK: ROLLING FOUR QUARTERS TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDED TO PURCHASE ASSETS PREVIOUSLY FINANCED UNDER A SYNTHETIC LEASE 192.0 ---------------- FREE CASH FLOW $ 1,270.1


