FILE:KR/KR-8K-20030916095637.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Updated 2003 Guidance
 
Labor:
 
Collective bargaining agreements between the Company and the UFCW have expired in Portland, Oregon; and will expire during the remainder of 2003 in Memphis; Ralphs in Southern California; Charleston, WV; Arizona; and Indianapolis; among other labor agreements expiring this year. An agreement has been ratified in Toledo, and a one year extension of the Peoria contract has been negotiated.
 
:
Unchanged 2003 Guidance
 
:
Additional Guidance
 
Based on current interest rates and our expected rate of return, we estimate that contributions to our Company-sponsored pension plans over fiscal years 2004-2006 will have the net effect of reducing Kroger's cash flow by approximately $110 million annually.
 
Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and earnings could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. Our EPS goals could be affected by sales performance; competitive actions; recessionary trends in the economy; our ability to achieve the cost reductions that we have identified, including those to reduce shrink and OG&A; continued increases in health care and pension costs; changes in utility costs; and the success of our capital investments. In addition, increases in sales of our corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget. Our ability to meet working capital reduction targets could be adversely affected by increases in product costs, newly opened or consolidated distribution centers, our ability to achieve sales growth from new square footage, competitive activity in the markets in which we operate, changes in our product mix, and changes in laws and regulations. Square footage growth and the number of store projects completed during the year are dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. Depreciation and amortization may vary from our estimates due to the timing of new store openings. Interest expense will vary with changes in capital markets and the amount of debt that we have outstanding. LIFO will be affected by vendor promotions and changes in the cost of inventory. While we expect to achieve benefits through logistics and technology, development of new systems and integration of systems due to our merger with Fred Meyer carry inherent uncertainties, and we may not achieve the expected benefits. Unforeseen difficulties in integrating any acquired entity with Kroger could adversely affect our ability to meet our other expectations. The average diluted shares outstanding may vary based on the market price of our stock, the number of shares we repurchase and the number of stock awards made during the year. The amount and timing of future one-time, merger-related costs could be adversely affected by our ability to convert remaining systems as planned and on budget. The cost associated with implementation of our strategic growth plan, as well as the amount and timing of our expected cost reductions, could be affected by a worsening economy, increased competitive pressures, and any inability on our part to implement the strategic growth plan when expected. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Contributions to our pension plans, and the extent to which they affect our cash flow may vary from our expectations due primarily to the performance of our investments in our pension plans and the interest rate used to discount our liabilities. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the SEC for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
 
On September 16, 2003, the Company released its earnings for the second quarter of 2003. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, September 16, 2003  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings of $190.4 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, for the second quarter ended August 16, 2003. These results include a previously announced after-tax charge of $0.05 per diluted share to resolve disputes related to energy supply arrangements with Dynegy Inc. The results also include expense of $0.01 per diluted share, after tax, from the power blackout in parts of Ohio and Michigan last month. Additional detail on these and other items is provided in Table 2.
 
Net earnings in the year-ago period were $264.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share. Those results include an after-tax charge of $10.1 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, from the items shown in Table 2.
 
Total sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2003 increased 3.6% to $12.4 billion. Total food-store sales rose 3.3%. Identical food-store sales, including fuel, declined 0.1%. Identical food-store sales, excluding fuel, decreased 0.9%. Comparable food-store sales, which include relocations and expansions, increased 0.5% for the quarter. Comparable food-store sales, excluding fuel, declined 0.4%. Kroger estimates that product cost inflation, including fuel, was 0.5% and, excluding fuel, was 0.2%.
 
"We were encouraged by our sales performance in the second quarter, especially in the light of intense competition, continued economic uncertainty and the strength of our identical food-store sales in the year-ago period," said David
 
B. Dillon, Kroger chief executive officer. "In addition, Kroger's associates did a great job of managing costs in the second quarter in the face of challenging health care, pension and energy costs."
 
Also in the second quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Over the past four quarters, Kroger's cash flow has enabled the Company to repurchase $532 million in stock, reduce net total debt by $208 million, and invest $2.0 billion in capital projects, including the buyout of a synthetic lease.
 
During the second quarter of 2003, Kroger opened, expanded, relocated or acquired 36 food stores. Total food store square footage increased 3.9% over the prior year, including acquisitions. Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $449 million. Kroger now expects capital investment for the full year to be $1.9 billion, excluding acquisitions and the buyout of a synthetic lease.
 
For the first two quarters of fiscal 2003, sales increased 3.7% to $28.6 billion. Net earnings were $541.9 million, or $0.71 per diluted share. These results include after-tax expense of $37.9 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, from items detailed in Table 2. For the first half of fiscal 2002, net earnings were $569.3 million, or $0.71 per diluted share. These results include after-tax expense of $91.1 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, from items detailed in Table 2.
 
Kroger's previous earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2003 was $1.55 to $1.63. This estimate did not include annual net expense of $0.04 per diluted share for the Dynegy settlement and expense of $0.01 per share from the blackout. Including these expenses, the earnings per share range is $1.50 to $1.58.
 
The Company now believes that earnings per share for 2003 are more likely to be near the low end of this range, and could be as much as $0.05 below the range. This possibility arises from an increase in the Company's expected LIFO charge of $0.02 per share, an increasingly competitive environment that may require an additional investment of gross profit rate, and a tough economy.
 
Mr. Dillon said this cautious outlook may prove to be too conservative because:
 
 
 
 
 
"We remain committed to achieving earnings per diluted share of $1.50 or better, but the current environment remains very challenging," Mr. Dillon said. "The Strategic Growth Plan is the right approach to grow our market share by reducing the price gap with discount operators and widening our price advantage over traditional competitors in many markets. We have achieved $458 million in cost savings through the end of the second quarter. We expect to exceed our original goal of $500 million in savings by the end of 2003."
 
Kroger today will file a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission that includes updated guidance for 2003.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,519 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly, through its subsidiaries or franchise agreements) 794 convenience stores, 444 fine jewelry stores, 412 supermarket fuel centers and 41 food processing plants. The Company contributed $106 million last year to local communities and non-profit organizations. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements relate to, among other things: targeted earnings per share; net operating working capital reduction; uses of cash flow; improvement in competitive price position; cost savings; identical food-store sales; and our Strategic Growth Plan;
 
and are indicated by the words or phrases such as "committed," "plans," "expects," "estimate," "will" and "goal." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our ability to achieve earnings per share targets will be affected primarily by: pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including inflationary trends in certain commodities; the success of our Strategic Growth Plan announced in December 2001; the extent to which we are able to adjust retail prices to cover a portion of our product cost increases and cost increases for health care, pension and energy; sales performance; our ability to achieve the cost reductions that we have identified, including those to reduce shrink and OG&A; and the success of our capital investments. In addition to the factors identified above, our identical food-store sales could be affected by increases in Kroger private-label sales as well as the impact of "sister stores." Our efforts to meet our net operating working capital reduction targets could be adversely affected by: increases in product costs; newly opened or consolidated distribution centers; our ability to achieve sales growth from new square footage; competitive activity in the markets in which we operate; changes in our product mix; and changes in laws and regulations. The results of our Strategic Growth Plan and our ability to generate cash flow to the extent expected could be adversely affected if any of the factors identified above negatively impact our operations, or if any of our underlying strategies, including those to reduce shrink and OG&A and to increase productivity, are not achieved. In addition, the timing of the execution of the Plan could adversely impact our EPS and sales results. The cost associated with implementation of our Strategic Growth Plan, as well as the amount and timing of our expected cost reductions, could be affected by a worsening economy; increased competitive pressures; and any inability on our part to implement the Strategic Growth Plan when expected. Labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could affect our ability to achieve the goals outlined above. The proportion of cash flow used to reduce debt, repurchase stock, or pay a cash dividend, may be affected by the market price of Kroger common stock and the amount of outstanding debt available for pre-payment or repurchase. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EDT) on September 16, 2003 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EDT) on September 16, 2003 through September 26, 2003.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
Media Contact:         Gary Rhodes, The Kroger Co. (513) 762-1304
 
Investor Contact:      Kathy Kelly, The Kroger Co. (513) 762-4969
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum accurately due to rounding.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected Kroger's financial results during the periods presented. The items include restructuring charges, merger-related costs and the cumulative effect of an accounting change, all of which are shown separately in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Table 1). The items also include other charges and credits that were recorded as components of merchandise costs, operating, general and administrative expense (OG&A) and interest expense.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


