FILE:KR/KR-8K-20040309092611.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 9, 2004, the Company released its earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2003. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, March 9, 2004  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported a net loss of $337.4 million, or $(0.45) per diluted share, for the fourth quarter ended January 31, 2004. These results include several items described below that collectively reduced after-tax earnings by $663.1 million, or $0.89 per diluted share.
 
The Company estimates the recently resolved labor dispute affecting stores in southern California, as well as a work stoppage in West Virginia that ended in mid-December, reduced earnings by $156.4 million after tax during the quarter. Kroger also incurred a goodwill impairment charge of $444.2 million after tax related to its Smith's division, and a charge of $75.0 million after tax for an asset writedown related to 74 under-performing stores. In addition, Kroger had income of $12.5 million after tax related to the adjustment of a property tax allowance. Additional detail on these items, including the calculation used to estimate the effect of the labor disputes, is provided in Tables 2 and 3.
 
Net earnings in the year-ago period were $381.0 million, or $0.50 per diluted share. Those results include items detailed in Table 2.
 
Total sales for the 12-week fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 increased 4.5% to $13.0 billion, including stores affected by the labor disputes. On this basis, identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 1.8% and, excluding fuel, increased 1.2%. Excluding stores affected by labor disputes, identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 2.0%. On this basis, identical food-store sales, excluding fuel, increased 1.3% (Table 6). Kroger estimates that product cost inflation, including fuel, was 2.3% and, excluding fuel, was 2.1%.
 
"We are pleased with Kroger's fourth-quarter sales. This represents continued sequential improvement in both total and identical food-store sales," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chief executive officer. "In addition, we are happy to have a new contract in place in southern California and to have Ralphs team members back at work serving our customers. Ralphs has a comprehensive plan in place to build its business and will receive our full support."
 
Also in the fourth quarter:
 
 
 
For the full 52-week fiscal year in 2003, sales increased 3.9% to $53.8 billion. Net earnings were $314.6 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. These results include total charges of $801.3 million after tax, or $1.06 per diluted share, from: the effect of the labor disputes; asset writedown; goodwill impairment charge; a charge for resolving disputes related to energy supply arrangements; and other items shown in Tables 2 and 3. Net earnings for fiscal 2002 were $1.2 billion, or $1.52 per diluted share. These results include the items shown in Table 2.
 
In 2003, Kroger's cash flow enabled the Company to reduce total debt by $211 million, repurchase $301 million in stock and invest $2.1 billion in capital projects. This capital investment figure includes $202 million for the buyout of a synthetic lease and $78 million for acquisitions.
 
Kroger opened, expanded, relocated or acquired 116 food stores, and closed 44 stores in 2003. Total food store square footage increased 2.7% over the prior year.
 
Looking ahead, the Company expects identical food-store sales for 2004, excluding fuel, to be stronger than the fourth quarter of 2003. Strong sales related to inclement weather in many parts of the country during early 2003 will make comparisons difficult in the first quarter of this year, Mr. Dillon said.
 
Kroger expects earnings in 2004 to be lower than in 2003, excluding the effect of the labor disputes and unusual items. Mr. Dillon said it is not possible for Kroger to provide a more precise earnings estimate for 2004 because of the inherent uncertainties in: the cost of the labor dispute in southern California; the time and investment needed to build Ralphs' business; and the investment necessary to meet Kroger's plan to drive sales growth.
 
"We have achieved significant cost savings over the past two years. We believe that in 2004 there will be additional opportunities to reduce our costs in areas such as administration, labor, shrink, warehousing and transportation. These savings will be invested in our core business to drive profitable sales growth and offer improved value and shopping experiences for our customers. More than ever, Kroger's financial strength is an important competitive advantage. We have the financial resources and right team in place to continue building Kroger's business," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of fiscal 2003, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,532 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly, through its subsidiaries or franchise agreements) 802 convenience stores, 440 fine jewelry stores, 466 supermarket fuel centers and 41 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words or phrases such as "expects" and "believe." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties
 
and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Increased competition, weather and economic conditions, the success of programs designed to increase our sales, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our earnings. Although we anticipate that our identical food-store sales for fiscal 2004, excluding fuel, will be stronger than in the fourth quarter of 2003, results could be affected by increased competition, weather conditions, labor disputes, economic conditions, and the success of programs designed to increase our sales. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EST) on March 9, 2004 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EST) on March 9, 2004 through March 19, 2004.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principle ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below in the footnotes and in Table 3, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected Kroger's financial results during the periods presented. The items include a goodwill impairment charge, an asset impairment charge, restructuring charges, merger-related costs and the cumulative effect of an accounting change, all of which are shown separately in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Table 1). The items also include other charges and credits that were recorded as components of merchandise costs, operating, general and administrative expense ("OG&A") and interest expense. Additionally, items in 2003 include the estimated effects of the labor disputes.
 
 
 
 
The estimated effects of the labor disputes on the Ralphs stores in southern California and the Kroger stores in the West Virginia area are based on the following assumptions and estimates, the most significant of which are explained below. While we have endeavored to estimate the effect of the labor disputes on our business, the uncertainties inherent in such estimates could cause them to be inaccurate.
 
The effect of the labor disputes on FIFO Gross Margin (see Table 2):
 
For dispute-affected regions, management assumed that trends existing prior to the effect of the labor disputes would have continued. Based on those trends, the estimated effect includes the differences between reported sales and sales projections less reported merchandising costs and merchandising cost projections. The estimates include differences at the strike-affected stores as well as differences at Food 4 Less stores in southern California whose financial results were affected by the labor dispute in that region.
 
Differences in merchandising costs included incremental warehousing, distribution, advertising and inventory shrinkage expenses due to the labor disputes.
 
The effect of the labor disputes on operating, general and administrative expense ("OG&A"):
 
For dispute-affected regions, management assumed that trends existing prior to the effect of the labor disputes would have continued. The estimated effect includes the differences between reported OG&A and OG&A projections based on those trends. The estimates include differences at the strike-affected stores as well as differences at Food 4 Less stores in southern California whose financial results were affected by the labor dispute.
 
Differences in OG&A included: direct pre-strike expenses; costs associated with hiring and training replacement workers; costs associated with bringing in employees from other Kroger divisions to work on a temporary basis in the Ralphs stores; and expenses under the mutual strike assistance agreement entered into with Safeway Inc. and Albertson's, Inc. in southern California.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable food store sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
In southern California, sales results were negatively affected by picket lines established outside of our Ralphs stores. Picket lines generally dissuade potential customers from entering our stores. Additionally, we were forced to hire temporary employees and transfer current employees from other areas to southern California to staff the stores. Operating with fewer employees and, in most cases, less experienced replacement employees, our stores suffered sales losses due to increased inventory shortages and decreased customer service. These negative sales effects were partially offset by sales increases at Food 4 Less stores in the region that were not involved in the labor dispute. Also, sales at Ralphs stores were favorably affected during certain weeks when picket lines were removed from Ralphs stores.
 
Sales figures adjusted for effects of the labor disputes exclude stores involved in labor disputes, as well as Food 4 Less stores whose sales were favorably affected by the labor disputes in that region. Sales were excluded for the first six weeks of our fourth quarters for stores in the West Virginia area. Sales were excluded for our entire fourth quarters for the Ralphs and Food 4 Less stores.
 


