FILE:KR/KR-8K-20041207084936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
. .
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On December 7, 2004, the Company released its earnings for the third quarter 2004. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
 
. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, December 7, 2004  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today said total sales increased 5.9% to $12.9 billion for the third quarter ended November 6, 2004. Identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 3.2% and, excluding fuel, increased 1.8%. Ralphs and Food 4 Less stores in southern California together accounted for 0.1% of this increase.
 
Net earnings totaled $142.7 million, or $0.19 per fully diluted share, compared to $110.2 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2003.
 
"We are very pleased with our sales performance in the third quarter. Kroger's identical food-store sales showed strong improvement over the second quarter," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "Our continued focus on fulfilling our customers' needs is an important part of our strategy to increase earnings through strong, sustainable identical food-store sales growth."
 
Also in the third quarter:
 
 
 
Kroger opened, expanded, relocated or acquired 30 food stores; remodeled 33 stores; and closed 20 stores in the quarter. Total food store square footage increased 1.2% over the prior year. Capital expenditures totaled $429 million.
 
For 2004, the Company now expects capital investment to be in the range of $1.7 - $1.8 billion, excluding acquisitions. This represents a decline of $200-$300 million from the upper end of Kroger's original estimate for the year.
 
Total debt at the end of the third quarter was $7.8 billion, a decrease of $607.0 million compared to a year ago.
 
Kroger repurchased approximately 5.4 million shares of stock during the third quarter at an average price of $15.18 for a total investment of $82.6 million. There is approximately $422.1 million remaining under the new $500 million stock buyback announced in September. Since January 2000, Kroger has invested $2.7 billion to repurchase 136.7 million shares. The Company continues to buy back stock.
 
For the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, sales increased 4.9% to $42.7 billion. Net earnings were $548.0 million, or $0.73 per diluted share. For the first three quarters of fiscal 2003, net earnings were $652.0 million, or $0.86 per diluted share.
 
"Thanks to the hard work and tremendous contributions of the entire organization, Kroger has made considerable progress in a number of key areas during 2004. But there is still much work to be done. We will continue to focus on becoming more competitive in every aspect of our business so that we can provide a shopping experience that makes our customers want to return," Mr. Dillon said.
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,531 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 792 convenience stores, 439 fine jewelry stores, 520 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words "expects" or "will." The forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our capital expenditures could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or our logistics and technology projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected. The extent to which Kroger continues to focus on becoming more competitive may be affected by increased costs incurred; our inability to achieve productivity improvements and shrink reduction; failure of our technology projects to achieve desired results; our desire to maintain an appropriate balance between sales and earnings; and labor disputes. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EST) on December 7, 2004 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EST) on December 7, 2004 through December 17, 2004.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
Media Contact:         Gary Rhodes (513) 762-1304
 
Investor Contact:      Carin Fike (513) 762-4969
 
Note: Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to current presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below in the footnotes, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected Kroger's financial results during the periods presented. The items include charges and credits that were recorded as components of operating, general and administrative expense ("OG&A") and interest expense.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below, it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes the estimated effect of labor disputes on Kroger's financial results that were previously reported for the periods presented. In the third quarter of 2004 we discontinued reporting the strike effect.
 
Included in the estimated strike effect for prior periods were charges and credits that were recorded as components of merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative ("OG&A") expense. The estimated effect of the labor disputes is the difference between actual results and budgeted results for strike-affected stores. The 2003 calculation includes the effect of both the southern California and the West Virginia strikes. The estimated strike effect includes all costs associated with the work stoppages, including expenses under the mutual strike assistance agreement in southern California entered into with Safeway Inc. and Albertson's, Inc., and post-strike recovery expenses through the second quarter of 2004.
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable food store sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
 


