FILE:KR/KR-8K-20040622094629.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On June 22, 2004, the Company released its earnings for the first quarter 2004. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, June 22, 2004  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net income of $262.8 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, for the first quarter ended May 22, 2004.
 
The Company estimates the labor dispute affecting stores in southern California reduced net earnings by $71.6 million, or $0.10 per diluted share. Additional detail on the calculation used to estimate the effect of the labor dispute is provided in Table 2.
 
Net earnings in the year-ago period were $351.5 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. Those results include items that positively affected net earnings by $4.1 million, or $0.01 per diluted share (Table 2).
 
Total sales for the 16-week first quarter of fiscal 2004 increased 3.9% to $16.9 billion. Identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 1.3% and, excluding fuel, increased 0.3%. Excluding, for the entire quarter, the Ralphs and Food 4 Less stores affected by the work stoppage, identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 1.6% and, excluding fuel, increased 0.5% (Table 5). Kroger estimates that product cost inflation, including fuel, was 2.3% and, excluding fuel, was 1.6%.
 
"We are pleased that Kroger continues to grow our identical food-store sales in a challenging operating environment," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chief executive officer. "But there is more to be done. We plan to continue making investments in pricing, customer service and product variety to deliver strong, sustainable sales growth."
Also in the first quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
Kroger opened, expanded, relocated or acquired 32 food stores, and closed 22 stores in the quarter. Total food store square footage increased 2.4% over the prior year. Capital expenditures totaled $456.7 million.
 
Mr. Dillon said Kroger is pleased with Ralphs' sales and earnings following the end of the southern California labor dispute in late February. "Our associates in southern California did a great job of quickly getting our stores back in shape and providing our customers with outstanding service."
 
For 2004, Mr. Dillon said the Company continues to expect identical food-store sales, excluding fuel, to be stronger than in the fourth quarter of 2003. He also reiterated that Kroger expects earnings in 2004 to be lower than in 2003, excluding the effect of the labor disputes and unusual items, as the Company continues to invest in lower prices, improved customer service and product variety.
 
"Kroger is off to a good start with sales in 2004. We are squarely focused on providing customers with better service, selection and value each time they shop in our stores. We have a clear strategy in place to build our business profitably. We are reducing our costs and will continue to reinvest those savings in Kroger's core business to improve our customers' shopping experience and consistently deliver better value," Mr. Dillon added.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,536 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly, through its subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 794 convenience stores, 439 fine jewelry stores, 487 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words or phrases such as "expects" and "will." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Increased competition, weather and economic conditions, interest rates, the success of programs designed to increase our sales, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our earnings. Although we anticipate that our identical food-store sales for fiscal 2004, excluding fuel, will be stronger than in the fourth quarter of 2003, excluding fuel, and that earnings per diluted share in 2004 will be lower than 2003, results could be affected by changes in competition, weather conditions, labor disputes, economic conditions, interest rates, and the success of programs designed to increase our sales. The extent to which cost savings are invested in our core business will depend on Kroger's ability to generate those cost savings and to increase sales through such investment. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EDT) on June 22, 2004 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EDT) on June 22, 2004 through July 2, 2004.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principle ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below in the footnotes, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected Kroger's financial results during the periods presented. The items include charges and credits that were recorded as components of merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expense ("OG&A"). Additionally, items in 2004 include the estimated effects of the labor dispute.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable food store sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
 
 


