FILE:KR/KR-8K-20040914093341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
.
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On September 14, 2004, the Company released its earnings for the second quarter 2004. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, September 14, 2004  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings of $142.4 million, or $0.19 per fully diluted share, for the second quarter ended August 14, 2004.
 
Net earnings were reduced by $15.3 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, as a result of the premium paid on the early redemption of Kroger's $750 million, 7
 3
/
8
% Notes due March 2005. The Company expects the redemption to reduce Kroger's interest expense by approximately $0.02 per fully diluted share during the remainder of the 2004 fiscal year. Net earnings were $23.4 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, lower than what Kroger expected had the 141-day strike in southern California not occurred. Additional detail is provided in Table 2.
 
Net earnings in the year-ago period were $190.4 million, or $0.25 per diluted share. Those results include items that reduced net earnings by $42.0 million, or $0.06 per diluted share (Table 2).
 
Total sales for the second quarter of 2004 increased 5.1% to $13.0 billion. Identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 2.1% and, excluding fuel, increased 0.6%. Excluding the Ralphs and Food 4 Less stores affected by an earlier labor dispute, identical food-store sales, including fuel, increased 2.8% and, excluding fuel, increased 1.1%. Kroger estimates that product cost inflation, including fuel, was 3.6% and, excluding fuel, was 2.4%.
 
"We are pleased with the 60 basis point improvement in Kroger's identical food-store sales results over the first quarter, excluding the Ralphs and Food 4 Less stores affected by the labor dispute and excluding fuel," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. He said that Kroger expects improved identical food-store sales for the remainder of the year, as compared to
 
the 1.1% growth in the second quarter. But he noted that, based on year-to-date performance, it will be challenging to achieve the Company's previously announced identical food-store sales target of 1.3% for the full fiscal year, excluding fuel and stores affected by labor disputes.
 
Commenting on the post-strike environment in southern California, Mr. Dillon said, "The marketplace remains very competitive. Ralphs is focused on improving identical food-store sales to pre-strike levels. Based on current conditions in the market, we believe our efforts to return sales and earnings to pre-strike levels will continue for the foreseeable future. Ralphs is executing the plan to rebuild our business."
 
Also in the second quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
increased 1.5% over the prior year. Capital expenditures totaled $416.3 million.
 
 
"Kroger's cash flow enabled the Company to continue executing our financial triple play' of debt reduction, stock repurchase, and strong capital investment," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Mr. Dillon said that Kroger's strategy is to use one-third of cash flow for debt reduction and two-thirds for stock repurchase or payment of a cash dividend. He explained that, in accordance with this policy, Kroger expects cash flow for the year to support, at a minimum, the $168 million in stock repurchases made year to date and allow for debt reduction.
 
"Kroger's financial strength provides us with the resources necessary to continue building the Company's business for the future," he said.
 
For the first two quarters of fiscal 2004, sales increased 4.4% to $29.9 billion. Net earnings were $405.3 million, or $0.54 per diluted share. These results include the effect of the labor dispute, post-strike recovery in southern California, and other items shown in Table 2. For the first two quarters of fiscal 2003, net earnings were $541.9 million, or $0.71 per diluted share. These results include the items shown in Table 2.
 
Mr. Dillon reiterated Kroger's strategy. "As we have described over the past several quarters, our business model is driven by improving our customers' shopping experiences and growing top-line sales. Our strategy is producing these results in a sluggish retail environment, as shown by our identical food-store sales trend. During the quarter, we made incremental investments in pricing and promotions to stimulate sales. We continue to seek the proper balance between gross margin investments, sales and earnings. We remain squarely focused on offering our customers the service, variety and product quality they expect in order to drive sustainable and profitable sales growth for the Company."
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,530 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 792 convenience stores, 439 fine jewelry stores, 502 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "expects," "believe" and "will." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. The extent to which an early redemption of debt will reduce our interest expense during the remainder of 2004 will be affected by fluctuations in interest rates as well as our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our obligations without the need to issue additional debt beyond the amounts planned. Increased competition, weather and economic conditions, the success of programs designed to increase our sales, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our ability to increase our identical food-store sales as compared to our second quarter results. The extent to which growth in identical food-store sales reaches our previously announced target, likewise, will be affected by these factors. The recovery period in the southern California market will be affected primarily by competitive activity in that market. The extent to which our cash flow is sufficient to support our stock repurchases and debt reduction will depend on our ability to generate sales and to reduce costs, as well as our ability to reduce our working capital. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EDT) on September 14, 2004 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EDT) on September 14, 2004 through September 24, 2004.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principle ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below in the footnotes, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected Kroger's financial results during the periods presented. The items include charges and credits that were recorded as components of merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expense ("OG&A"). Additionally, items in 2004 include the estimated effects of the labor dispute.
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable food store sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
 


