FILE:KR/KR-8K-20050308094340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
. .
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On March 8, 2005, the Company released its earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2004. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 7Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
:
Labor
 
During fiscal 2005, UFCW collective bargaining agreements will expire in Roanoke, Atlanta, Portland, Columbus, and Dallas, among other labor agreements expiring this year. We also have various Teamsters contracts expiring, including southern California and several facilities in the Midwest.
 
Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and earnings could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. In addition, increases in sales of our
corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget. Square footage growth and the number of store projects completed during the year are dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. We anticipate expensing stock options during the fiscal year, as generally accepted accounting principles as currently in effect would require us to do so; however, if the accounting pronouncements change prior to our implementation, we may elect not to do so. Our estimated expense of $0.04-$0.05 per diluted share, from the adoption of stock option expensing, could vary if the assumptions that we used to calculate the expense prove to be inaccurate. The amount that we contribute to Company pension plans could vary if the amount of cash flow that we generate differs from that expected. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, March 8, 2005  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today announced preliminary results for the fourth quarter ended January 29, 2005. As previously announced, the Company will restate prior-year results to correct its accounting for leases. The results reported today exclude the effect of the correction.
 
Total sales for the fourth quarter of 2004 increased 5.1% to $13.7 billion. This growth resulted from strong sales at the Company's food stores, including fuel, as well as from the convenience and jewelry stores. Net square footage at the Company's food stores increased 1.2%.
 
Identical food-store sales were:
 
 
"We are very pleased with our sales performance in the fourth quarter. Kroger's identical food-store sales, without the effect of fuel and southern California, have shown sequential improvement for seven of the past eight quarters. This is a clear sign that Kroger's strategic focus on fulfilling the needs of our customers continues to generate positive results," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "This momentum has continued in
 
fiscal 2005, with identical food-store sales through the first five weeks running ahead of our fourth-quarter results."
 
Mr. Dillon said the successful execution of Kroger's strategy produced strong cash flow, enabling the Company to continue its "financial triple play" of reducing total debt by nearly $400 million, repurchasing $318.7 million in stock, and investing $1.6 billion in capital projects.
 
Kroger reported a net loss of $675.9 million, or $0.93 per share, for the fourth quarter. These results include a goodwill impairment charge of $884.0 million after tax, or $1.21 per share, related to the Ralphs and Food 4 Less operations.
 
In the year-ago period, Kroger reported a net loss of $337.4 million, or $0.45 per share. These results included several items that collectively reduced net earnings by $663.1 million, or $0.89 per share. Additional detail is provided in Tables 2 and 3.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2004, Kroger repurchased approximately 4.2 million shares of stock at an average price of $16.52 for a total investment of $69.2 million. There is approximately $353 million remaining under the new $500 million stock buyback announced in September. Since January 2000, Kroger has invested $2.7 billion to repurchase 140.8 million shares. The Company continues to buy back stock.
 
For the full 2004 fiscal year, sales increased 4.9% to $56.4 billion. Kroger reported a net loss of $128.0 million, or $0.17 per share. These results include several items that collectively reduced net earnings by $981.0 million, or $1.33 per share (Tables 2 & 3). For the full 2003 fiscal year, net earnings were $314.6 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. These results included items that reduced net earnings a total of $801.3 million after tax, or $1.06 per diluted share (Tables 2 & 3).
 
2005 Guidance
 
"Kroger's growth strategy is squarely focused on consistently meeting the needs of our customers through our associates providing improved service,
 
selection and value. We have made considerable progress, and in 2005, the successful execution of our strategy will be clearly evident in our financial performance," said Mr. Dillon.
 
Kroger expects 2005 net earnings to increase compared to 2004, excluding the effect of the goodwill impairment charge. Kroger expects this earnings growth to be fueled by improved results in southern California, growth in the balance of the Company, and lower interest expense. As a result, Kroger expects net earnings in 2005 to exceed $1.16 per diluted share.
 
Also included in this guidance for 2005, Kroger expects:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Kroger enters 2005 with improving sales momentum and a clear strategic vision that will drive sustainable, profitable sales growth and create value for our shareholders," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of fiscal 2004, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,532 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through
 
subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 795 convenience stores, 436 fine jewelry stores, 536 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "expects," "will" and "estimates." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Results anticipated in forward-looking statements regarding sales and earnings could be adversely affected by increased competition, weather and economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our sales, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs. Our ability to generate cost savings and productivity improvements, and to invest them to improve our customers' shopping experiences, will depend on the success of our cost savings programs and our ability to implement the systems identified to enhance productivity, as well as the reactions of our customers to those programs and systems. Our capital expenditures could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or our logistics and technology projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected. The extent to which our cash flow is sufficient to support our debt reduction and stock repurchases or cash dividend payment will depend on our ability to generate sales and to reduce costs and manage our gross margin, as well as our ability to manage our working capital. We anticipate expensing stock options during the fiscal year, as generally accepted accounting principles as currently in effect would require us to do so; however, if the accounting pronouncements change prior to our implementation, we may elect not to do so. Our estimated expense of $0.04-$0.05 per diluted share, from the adoption of stock option expensing, could vary if the assumptions that we used to calculate the expense prove to be inaccurate or are changed. Reductions in interest expense will depend on the interest rate environment and our ability to reduce or maintain current borrowing levels. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on March 8, 2005 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (ET) on March 8, 2005 through March 18, 2005.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to current presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below in the footnotes, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected Kroger's financial results during the periods presented. The items include charges and credits that were recorded as components of operating, general and administrative expense ("OG&A"), interest expense, asset impairment charge and goodwill impairment charge.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings, net cash provided by operating activities or any other Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") measure of performance or liquidity. These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes for Kroger's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. Due to the nature of these items, as further described below, it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes the estimated effect of labor disputes on Kroger's financial results that were previously reported for the periods presented. In the third quarter of 2004 we discontinued reporting the strike effect related to southern California.
 
Included in the estimated strike effect for prior periods were charges and credits that were recorded as components of merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative ("OG&A") expense. The estimated effect of the labor disputes is the difference between actual results and budgeted results for strike-affected stores. The 2003 calculation includes the effect of both the southern California and the West Virginia strikes. The estimated strike effect includes all costs associated with the work stoppages, including expenses under the mutual strike assistance agreement in southern California entered into with Safeway Inc. and Albertson's, Inc., and post-strike recovery expenses in southern California through the second quarter of 2004.
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable food store sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 


