FILE:KR/KR-8K-20050621084630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
.     .
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 21, 2005, the Company released its earnings for the first quarter 2005. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
 
.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, June 21, 2005  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings of $294.3 million, or $0.40 per fully diluted share, for the first quarter ended May 21, 2005. Net earnings in the year-ago period were $262.8 million, or $0.35 per fully diluted share.
 
Total sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 increased 6.2% to $17.9 billion. Identical supermarket sales increased 3.8% with fuel and 2.4% without fuel.
 
"Kroger's associates are focused on providing our customers with high levels of service, selection and value. That was the key to our performance in the first quarter," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "We're targeting the areas of our business that our customers have told us are most important to them. Whether it's speeding up the checkout process, making sure our stores have the right products in stock, or rewarding our best customers with special savings, we're committed to making sure that every decision we make positively influences the way our customers feel about Kroger."
 
He said Kroger's emphasis on placing the "customer first" generated increased customer traffic and higher average transaction size in identical supermarkets during the first quarter. Kroger's identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel and strike-affected stores, have shown sequential improvement for eight of the past nine quarters.
 
Other highlights of the first quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Dillon said Kroger continues to rebuild its business in southern California. Identical supermarket sales without fuel at both Ralphs and Food 4 Less were positive in the first quarter and, on a combined basis, increased 1.3% over the prior-year period. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) at Ralphs and Food 4 Less were in line with Kroger's expectations.
 
"We're pleased with our progress in southern California, particularly in light of the significant challenges we have faced. Our Ralphs and Food 4 Less associates are embracing the plan and are delivering against our strategy. We're seeing solid improvement," he said.
 
Kroger Raises Earnings Estimate for 2005
 
On the strength of its first-quarter financial performance, Kroger today raised its earnings estimate for fiscal 2005. Kroger said it now expects earnings for the full year to exceed $1.24 per fully diluted share, an increase of $0.03 from guidance provided in March. Kroger expects its 2005 earnings per share growth to be fueled by continued progress in southern California, improved results from the balance of the Company, lower interest expense, and fewer shares outstanding as a result of stock buybacks.
 
"We're off to a good start in 2005. Across the organization, our associates are working together to deliver the best possible shopping experience to our customers every day. Yet we also recognize that a lot of work remains. In this competitive environment, we must do an even better job of understanding and delivering what our customers need so that we can drive profitable sales growth and create the value that our shareholders expect from their investments," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,524 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen local banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's and Smith's Marketplace, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 793 convenience stores, 432 fine jewelry stores, 552 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the word "expects." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Results anticipated in forward-looking statements regarding earnings could be adversely affected
 
by increased competition, weather and economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (EDT) on June 21, 2005 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from 2 p.m. (EDT) on June 21, 2005 through July 1, 2005.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 


