FILE:KR/KR-8K-20050307085345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4Matters Related to Accountants and Financial Statements
 
 
(a) On February 25, 2005, management discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Audit Committee") the letter issued on February 7, 2005 by the Office of the Chief Accountant of the SEC, regarding certain operating lease accounting issues and their application under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). At a meeting held on March 6, 2005, management advised the Audit Committee that it had made a determination, similar to recent determinations by other publicly-held retail and restaurant companies, that its current methods of accounting for rent holidays and tenant improvement allowances, and of determining lives used in the calculation of depreciation of leasehold improvements and straight-line rent determination for certain leased properties, were not consistent with the SEC staff letter.
 
At the March 6, 2005 meeting, management and the Audit Committee, in consultation with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, discussed these operating lease accounting issues, and the Audit Committee concurred with management's determination and concluded that the Company's accounting for these items was incorrect and that the Company's previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2001, 2002 and 2003 should be restated.
 
As a result of the Company's determination to restate its consolidated financial statements as discussed above, the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, as well as its interim unaudited financial statements for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2004, should no longer be relied upon. Prior to April 14, 2005, the Company will file a Form 10-K/A amending its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, with restated consolidated financial statements. The Company's Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, to be filed on or before April 14, 2005, will reflect the restated information for the periods presented therein.
 
On March 7, 2005, the Company issued a press release describing the matters set forth above, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, March 7, 2005 -- The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today announced that it is reviewing its accounting practices with respect to leasing transactions as a result of a recent letter regarding United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") published by the SEC. The Company is working diligently to complete that review and to quantify the impact of the necessary adjustments on each of the affected prior periods. The Company currently estimates the cumulative effect on opening 2001 accumulated earnings to be a reduction of less than $25 million. Annual net earnings for any year affected by the change currently are estimated to be reduced by less than $0.01 per share. These adjustments will have no effect on historical or future cash flows or the timing of payments under the related leases.
 
On February 7, 2005, the Office of the Chief Accountant of the SEC issued a letter to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants expressing its views regarding certain operating lease accounting issues and their application under GAAP. In the ensuing weeks many retailers and restaurant companies have reviewed their previous interpretations of the lease accounting issues and have subsequently announced that they will be correcting their financial results.
 
Based on the current status of its review, as well as discussions with the Company's independent auditors and its Audit Committee, the Company determined that its accounting for leases was not in conformity with GAAP. On March 6, 2005, management and the Audit Committee concluded that the Company should restate its previously issued consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2001, 2002 and 2003. As a result of the Company's determination to restate its consolidated financial statements, the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, as well as its interim unaudited financial statements for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2004, should no longer be relied upon. Prior to April 14, 2005, the Company will file a Form 10-K/A amending its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, with restated consolidated financial statements. The Company's Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, to be filed on or before April 14, 2005, will reflect the restated information for the periods presented therein.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of fiscal 2004, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,532 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's, Fry's, Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 795 convenience stores, 436 fine jewelry stores, 536 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at www.kroger.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words "estimates" or "estimated." The forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. The impact of the adjustments on the periods for which our financial statements will be restated could change if the number of leases with "holiday periods" or "step rentals" differs from the number used in calculating the estimates. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Media Contact:         Gary Rhodes (513) 762-1304
Investor Contact:     Carin Fike (513) 762-4969


