FILE:KR/KR-8K-20050317165149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Determination of 2004 Bonus Payout
 
The Compensation Committee determined on March 15, 2005, the percentage of bonus payable under the 2004 bonus plan to the executive officers, including the named executive officers and, pursuant to authority of the board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer. The features of that plan are described in the Compensation Committee report in the Company's 2004 Proxy Statement. In making its determination, the Committee reviewed the extent to which the Company had achieved or failed to achieve targets established by the Committee for 2004 Sales and EBITDA. The Committee also determined the extent to which bonus would be payable based on the objective established by the Committee at the beginning of 2004 for the development of strategic plans. The Committee determined that for each of the named executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer, 55.174% of 2004 bonus potential was earned. As a result, bonuses will be paid as follows:
 
 
Establishment of 2005 Bonus Plan
 
At a meeting of the Compensation Committee on February 25, 2005, management described the 2005 bonus plan for eligible participants other than officers. The Committee determined on March 15, 2005, terms of the 2005 bonus plan for the executive officers, including the named executive officers and the Chief Executive Officer.
 
The Committee, and in the case of Mr. Dillon, the board of directors, has established bonus potentials for each executive officer including the following:
 
Under the 2005 bonus plan, the officers will earn a percentage of their bonus potentials based upon the extent to which the Company achieves 2005 targeted results in each of four areas. The areas, and the portion of bonus that will be determined by those results, are identical to the 2005 bonus plan for eligible participants other than officers. A description of the 2005 bonus plan is set forth on Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Committee established a target for identical stores sales growth in 2005, consistent with the Company's business plan, the achievement of which will result in a payout of 100% of this portion of the 2005 bonus plan. To the extent the Company performs below the target but above a minimum level also established by the Committee, a portion of the bonus related to Identical Sales will be earned. To the extent the Company performs above the target for 2005 Identical Sales, more than 100% of this portion of the bonus can be earned, but only if the Company achieves a specified level of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") also established by the Committee.
 
 
The Committee established a target for EBITDA, consistent with the Company's business plan, the achievement of which will result in a payout of 100% of this portion of the 2005 bonus plan. To the extent the Company performs below the target for EBITDA, but above a minimum level also established by the Committee, a portion of the bonus related to EBITDA will be earned. To the extent the Company exceeds the target for 2005 EBITDA, more than 100% of this portion of the bonus can be earned, but only if the Company achieves a specified level of 2005 Identical Sales also established by the Committee.
 
 
Pursuant to a capital investment process authorized by the Board of Directors, management establishes Sales and EBITDA budgets for certain capital projects, including new, expanded and relocated stores, as well as some remodeled stores and other capital projects. The Committee has determined that a portion of the 2005 bonus based on Capital Project Results will be earned based on the extent of which the sales and EBITDA results of the designated capital projects exceed a minimum threshold of the budgets for those projects.
 
 
The Committee has reviewed the Company's 2005 plans to implement and perform under its Strategic Plan. At the conclusion of the year, the Committee will evaluate the extent to which the 2005 plans actually were achieved based on specific measures and its own judgment. The Committee will then determine what portion of the 2005 bonus based on Strategic Plan Implementation will be earned.


