FILE:KR/KR-8K-20051206090316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
. .
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On December 6, 2005, the Company released its earnings for the third quarter 2005. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 8Other Events
 
.
Item 8.01
Other Events
 
The Company currently is in the process of completing its business plan for 2006. As in the past, Kroger expects to share details of its business plan when it releases fourth-quarter results in March. The Company's strategic focus will remain the same. The Company will continue to focus on driving sales growth and balancing investments in gross margin and improved customer service with operating cost reductions to provide a better shopping experience for Kroger customers. The Company expects operating margins in southern California to improve slightly due to continued recovery in that market, although the incremental improvement in 2006 will be less than in 2005. The Company expects operating margins in the balance of the company to hold steady. One thing to keep in mind is that fiscal 2006 will be 53 weeks, compared to fiscal 2005, which is a 52-week year. Also, the Company will begin expensing stock options in 2006, which it expects will affect fiscal 2006 earnings by 4  6 cents per diluted share.
 
The foregoing disclosure contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by words or phrases such as "will" and "expects." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our ability to achieve sales goals, for the entire Company and southern California in particular, may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; weather conditions; the lingering effects of the hurricanes in the Gulf region; stock repurchases; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins. Our ability to improve our operating profit margins in southern California and to maintain our operating profit margins in the balance of the Company may be adversely affected if our efforts to contain operating, general and administrative expenses fail, primarily if we are unsuccessful in generating contemplated sales or cost reductions in key areas of our business; or if our systems fail to deliver the productivity savings that we anticipate. Our ability to balance gross margin investments with operating cost reductions that can be used to fund lower prices and improved service may be affected by actions taken by our competition; cost increases that are not passed on to customers; and an inability to generate sales at desirable margins. Our ability to become more competitive may be affected by actions taken by our competitors to maintain or increase market shares; increased costs as a result of weather conditions; our efforts to control pension and health care costs; labor disputes; and continued industry consolidation. We anticipate expensing stock options during fiscal year 2006, as generally accepted accounting principles as currently in effect would require us to do so; however, if the accounting pronouncements change prior to our implementation, we may elect not to do so. Our estimated expense of $0.04-$0.06 per diluted share, from the adoption of stock option expensing, could vary if the assumptions that we used to calculate the expense prove to be inaccurate, which, because of the nature of the assumptions may well prove to be inaccurate. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CINCINNATI, OH, December 6, 2005  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings of $185.4 million, or $0.25 per fully diluted share, for the third quarter ended November 5, 2005. Net earnings in the year-ago period were $142.7 million, or $0.19 per fully diluted share.
 
Total sales for the third quarter increased 9.1% to $14.0 billion. Identical supermarket sales increased 6.6% with fuel and 3.7% without fuel. This represents Kroger's ninth consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel.
 
"Kroger's performance in the third quarter is a clear sign that our associates' focus on providing improved service, selection and value is being well-received by our customers," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "Thanks to this emphasis on placing the customer first,' Kroger posted its highest identical supermarket sales since the merger with Fred Meyer in 1999."
 
Other highlights of the third quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our financial performance in the third quarter reflects the consistent approach we have taken to managing our business. We continue to balance investments in gross margin and improved customer service with operating cost reductions to provide a better shopping experience for our customers," Mr. Dillon explained.
 
Sales and operating profit at Ralphs and Food 4 Less in southern California improved during the third quarter as compared to last year. In southern California, identical supermarket sales without fuel at both divisions, on a combined basis, increased 2.9% over the prior-year period.
"The pace of our recovery in southern California is slower than we would like. Clearly there are opportunities for growth, and our teams are focused on seizing those," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Over the first three quarters of fiscal 2005, sales increased 7.2% to $45.8 billion. Net earnings for the first three quarters of fiscal 2005 were $676.0 million, or $0.92 per diluted share. For the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, net earnings were $548.0 million, or $0.73 per diluted share.
 
"Thanks to the hard work and outstanding contributions of the entire organization, Kroger has made tremendous progress in several key areas this year. Our associates are offering improved shopping experiences for our customers in a variety of ways, and Kroger has been able to fund these by improving productivity and taking costs out of our business. Holiday sales are off to a strong start. We are focused on becoming more competitive in every aspect of our business so that we can take advantage of growth opportunities and generate value for our shareholders," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,510 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 32 states under two dozen local banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's and Smith's Marketplace, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 792 convenience stores, 431 fine jewelry stores, 567 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
 
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words "continue to balance" and "are focused." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our ability to balance gross margin investments with operating cost reductions that can be used to fund lower prices and improved service may be affected by actions taken by our competition; cost increases that are not passed on to customers; and an inability to generate sales at
desirable margins. Our ability to become more competitive may be affected by actions taken by our competitors to maintain or increase market shares; increased costs as a result of weather conditions; our efforts to control pension and health care costs; labor disputes; and continued industry consolidation. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on December 6, 2005 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through December 16, 2005.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity. Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity. Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the third quarter of 2005 to the balances in the third quarter of 2004 and the fourth quarter of 1999.
 


