FILE:KR/KR-8K-20050415153857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7Regulation FD
 
 
Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and earnings could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. In addition, increases in sales of our
corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget. Square footage growth and the number of store projects completed during the year are dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. We do not anticipate expensing stock options during the fiscal year, as the SEC recently delayed mandatory implementation until fiscal 2006. The amount that we contribute to Company pension plans could vary if the amount of cash flow that we generate differs from that expected, or if the Company voluntarily contributes more than required. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereto duly authorized.
 


