FILE:KR/KR-8K-20060620093204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and earnings could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. Increased competition, weather and economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our sales, the ultimate resolution of the legal proceedings arising from the hiring practices during the labor dispute at Ralphs, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth and earnings per share growth. Increases in sales of our corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate. Operating margins could fail to improve if our operations in southern California do not improve as expected or if we are unsuccessful in containing our operating costs. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget. Square footage growth and the number of store projects completed during the year are dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. We anticipate expensing stock options during the fiscal year, as generally accepted accounting principles as currently in effect would require us to do so. Our estimated expense of $0.06 per diluted share, from the adoption of stock option expensing, could vary if the assumptions that we used to calculate the expense prove to be inaccurate.  The amount that we contribute to Company pension plans could vary if the amount of cash flow that we generate differs from that expected. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
          CINCINNATI, OH, June 20, 2006 -- The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported total sales increased 8.2% to $19.4 billion for the first quarter ended May 20, 2006.  Identical supermarket sales increased 7.2% with fuel and 5.6% without fuel.  This represents Kroger's eleventh consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel.
          Net earnings in the first quarter totaled $306.4 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.  During the quarter, the Company increased its reserves associated with legal proceedings arising from hiring practices at its Ralphs subsidiary during the 2003-2004 labor dispute.  The current quarter charge reduced earnings by $0.03 per diluted share.
          Current quarter results also include $0.02 per diluted share for stock option expense to reflect the Company's adoption of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), .
Share-Based Payment
          Net earnings in the year-ago period were $294.3 million, or $0.40 per diluted share.
          "Kroger associates continue to focus on delivering improved service, selection and value to our customers and this has translated into another quarter of impressive identical sales growth.  Our associates' commitment to our Customer 1 strategy enabled Kroger to pay  for the first time in 18 years  a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer.
st
          Other highlights of the first quarter included:
          Kroger now expects identical supermarket sales growth, excluding fuel sales, to exceed 4.0% for the balance of the year.  The Company originally forecasted identical supermarket sales growth, excluding fuel sales, in excess of 3.5% for fiscal 2006.
          Kroger's original guidance for earnings per share growth in 2006 of 6  8% did not contemplate the need to increase legal reserves.  Based on first quarter results, the Company's guidance for earnings per share growth in 2006 remains at 6  8%, including the increase in legal reserves.  Absent the need to increase these reserves, Kroger's projected earnings per share growth rate would be 9  11% for fiscal 2006.
          "Our results this quarter can be tied directly to the contributions of our 290,000 associates.  We appreciate their hard work and thank them for making strides in several key areas, including continually improving our customers' shopping experience," Mr. Dillon said.
          Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains.  At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,483 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banners including Kroger and Kroger Marketplace, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's and Smith's Marketplace, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 783 convenience stores, 423 fine jewelry stores, 593 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants.  For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at www.kroger.com.
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company.  These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it.  Such statements are indicated by the words "expects," "projected," and "remains." Increased competition, weather and economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our sales, the ultimate resolution of the legal proceedings arising from the hiring practices during the labor dispute at Ralphs, and future labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth and earnings per share growth. The extent to which we are able to repurchase stock in accordance with our financial strategy of using one-third of cash flow for debt reduction and two-thirds for stock repurchase and cash dividends depends primarily on the price at which our stock trades and the availability of debt for repurchase.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.  We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein.  Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on June 20, 2006 at and .  An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through June 30, 2006.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
Media Contact:          Meghan Glynn (513) 762-1304
Investor Contact:        Carin Fike (513) 762-4969
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance.  Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity.  Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity.  Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the first quarter of 2006 to the balances in the first quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 1999.
 


