FILE:KR/KR-8K-20060323103549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On March 19, 2006, the Company's warrant dividend plan expired. The Company's Board of Directors authorized, effective March 19, 2006, the amendment of the Amended Articles of Incorporation to delete Article FOURTH, Section C.7. and Appendix A thereof, which amendment will have the effect of removing the designation of the Series A Preferred Shares.
The form of the Company's Amended Articles of Incorporation, as amended, to be filed with the Secretary of State of Ohio, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549
Re: Form 8-K Filed March 23, 2006
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Enclosed herewith for filing is the Company's Form 8-K. Should you have any questions regarding this filing please call me at (513) 762-1482.
 
Enc.

Exhibit 3.1
The Kroger Co., a corporation for profit, heretofore organized and now existing under the laws of the State of Ohio, makes and files these Amended Articles of Incorporation and states:
FIRST. The name of the Corporation is THE KROGER CO.
SECOND. The principal office of the Corporation is located at Cincinnati, in Hamilton County, Ohio.
THIRD. The purpose of said Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be formed under Sections 1701.01 to 1701.98, inclusive, of the Ohio Revised Code.
FOURTH. SECTION A. The maximum number of shares which the Corporation is authorized to have outstanding is one billion five million (1,005,000,000), classified as follows: five million (5,000,000) Cumulative Preferred Shares of the par value of $100.00 each; and one billion (1,000,000,000) Common Shares of the par value of $1.00 each.
The express terms and provisions of the shares of the foregoing classes of stock of the Corporation shall be as follows:
SECTION B. The holders of Common Shares shall have no pre-emptive rights to subscribe for or purchase any shares of any class.
SECTION C. 1. The authorized shares of Cumulative Preferred Shares may be issued in series from time to time. All shares of any one series of Cumulative Preferred Shares shall be alike in every particular and all shares of Cumulative Preferred Shares shall rank equally. The express terms and provisions of shares of different series shall be identical except that there may be variations in respect of the dividend rate, dates of payment of dividends and dates from which they are cumulative, redemption rights and price, liquidation price, sinking fund requirements, conversion rights, and restrictions on issuance of shares of the same series or of any other class or series. The Board of Directors of the Corporation is authorized to fix, by the adoption of an amendment to the Articles creating each such series of the Cumulative Preferred Shares, (a) the designation and number of shares of such series, (b) the dividend rate of such series, (c) the dates of payment of dividends on shares of such series and the dates from which they are cumulative, (d) the redemption rights of the Corporation with respect to shares of such series and the price or prices at which shares of such series may be redeemed, (e) the
amount or amounts payable to holders of shares of such series on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, which may be different for voluntary and involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, (f) the amount of the sinking fund, if any, to be applied to the purchase or redemption of shares of such series and the manner of its application, (g) whether or not the shares of such series shall be made convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of the same class of stock of the Corporation, and if made so convertible or exchangeable, the conversion price or prices, or the rates of exchange, and the adjustments, if any, at which such conversion or exchange may be made, and (h) whether or not the issue of any additional shares of such series or any future series in addition to such series or any other class of stock shall be subject to any restrictions and, if so, the nature of such restrictions.
2. Dividends on Cumulative Preferred Shares of any series shall be payable at rates and on dates to be fixed by the Board of Directors at the time of the creation of such series. Dividends of the Cumulative Preferred Shares of all series shall be cumulative, and no dividends shall be declared or paid upon or set apart for the Common Stock unless and until full dividends on the outstanding Cumulative Preferred Shares of all series shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment with respect to all past dividend periods and the current dividend period. In case of any series of Cumulative Preferred Shares, dividends shall accrue from and be cumulative from such dates as may be fixed by the Board of Directors at the time of the creation of such series. In the event of the issue of additional Cumulative Preferred Shares of any series after the initial issue of shares of such series all dividends paid on Cumulative Preferred Shares of such series prior to the issue of such additional Cumulative Preferred Shares and all dividends declared and payable to holders of record of Cumulative Preferred Shares of such series on a date prior to such additional issue shall be deemed to have been paid on the additional shares so issued.
3. If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the assets distributable among the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Shares of all series shall be insufficient to permit the payment of the full preferential amounts to which they shall be entitled, then the entire assets of the Corporation shall be distributed among the holders of the Cumulative Preferred Shares of all series then outstanding, ratably in proportion to the full preferential amounts to which they are respectively entitled. Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to prevent the purchase, acquisition or other retirement by the Corporation of any shares of its outstanding stock as now or in the future authorized or permitted by the laws of Ohio. A consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or corporations, or a sale or transfer of all or substantially all of its property, shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
 
4. Notice of any proposed redemption of Cumulative Preferred Shares of any series shall be given by the Corporation by publication at least once in one daily newspaper printed in the English language and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, State of New York, and in the City of Cincinnati, State of Ohio, the first publication to be at least sixty (60) days, and not more than ninety (90) days, prior to the date fixed for such redemption. Notice of any proposed redemption of Cumulative Preferred Shares of any series also shall be given by the Corporation by mailing a copy of such notice, at least sixty (60) days, and not more than ninety (90) days, prior to the date fixed for such redemption, to the holders of record of the Cumulative Preferred Shares to be redeemed, at their respective addresses then appearing upon the books of the Corporation; but no failure to mail such notice, or defect therein or in the mailing thereof shall affect the validity of the proceedings for such redemption. In case of the redemption of a part only of the Cumulative Preferred Shares of any series at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected by lot or pro rata, as the Board of Directors may determine. The Board of Directors shall have full power and authority, subject to the limitations and provisions herein contained, to prescribe the manner in which, and the terms and conditions upon which, the shares of the Cumulative Preferred Shares of any series shall be redeemed from time to time. On or at any time before the redemption date specified in such notice, the Corporation shall deposit in trust, for the holders of the shares to be redeemed, funds necessary for such redemption with a bank or trust company organized under the laws of the United States of America or the State of New York and doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, or organized under the laws of the United States of America or of the State of Ohio and doing business in the City of Cincinnati, Ohio; and designated in such notice of redemption. Upon the publication of the notice of redemption as above provided, or upon the making of such deposit, whichever is later, all shares with respect to the redemption of which such notice and deposit shall have been given and made shall, whether or not the certificates therefor shall have been surrendered for cancellation, be deemed to be no longer outstanding for any purpose, and all rights with respect to such shares shall thereupon cease and terminate, except only the rights of the holders of the certificates for such shares to receive, out of the funds so deposited in trust, from and after the date of such deposit, the amount payable upon the redemption thereof, without interest; provided, however, that no right of conversion, if any, belonging to such shares, if such right of conversion is, by its terms, to exist for a period beyond the date of the publication of such notice or the making of such deposit, shall be impaired by the publication of such notice or the making of such deposit. At the expiration of six (6) years after the date of such deposit, such trust shall terminate. Any such moneys then remaining on deposit with such bank or trust company shall be paid over to the Corporation, and thereafter the holders of the certificates for such shares shall have no claims against such bank or trust company, but only claims as unsecured creditors against the Corporation for the amount payable upon the redemption thereof without interest.
 
5. At all meetings of the shareholders, every holder of record of shares of Cumulative Preferred Shares and every holder of record of Common Stock shall be entitled to vote and shall have one vote for each share outstanding in his name on the books of the Corporation on the record date fixed for such purpose, or if no record date is fixed, on the date next preceding the day of such meeting, provided that (1) in the event that the Corporation should have failed to pay dividends on any series of Cumulative Preferred Shares for six or more quarterly dividends, the holders of Cumulative Preferred Shares of all series, voting as a single class, shall be entitled to elect two directors, each for a one-year term, whether or not the board is otherwise divided into classes with each director elected for a term longer than one year, at the meeting of shareholders for the election of directors next succeeding the time such failure to pay these six dividends first occurs, and (2) no amendment to the Articles of Incorporation or Regulations shall be made which would be substantially prejudicial to the holders of outstanding Cumulative Preferred Shares or any series thereof without the favorable vote of the holders of two-thirds of the Cumulative Preferred Shares, voting as a single class, then outstanding, unless such amendment shall not equally affect all series, in such case the favorable vote of the holders of two-thirds of the adversely affected series shall also be required. The right of holders of Cumulative Preferred Shares to elect these two directors shall terminate when all such unpaid dividends on Cumulative Preferred Shares have been paid and the directors then in office and elected by the holders of Cumulative Preferred Shares shall forthwith cease to hold office upon such payments.
6. The holders of the Cumulative Preferred Shares shall have no pre-emptive rights to subscribe for or purchase any shares of any class.
FIFTH. (a) 1. In addition to any affirmative vote or approval required by law, these Amended Articles of Incorporation, or the Regulations of the Corporation:
(A) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) with or into (i) any Interested Shareholder (as hereinafter defined) or (ii) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Shareholder) which, after such merger or consolidation, would be an Affiliate (as hereinafter defined) of an Interested Shareholder, or
(B) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) to or with any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate fair market value of $15,000,000 or more, or
(C) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of any securities or options, warrants or rights to acquire securities, of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, to any
 
Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate fair market value of $15,000,000 or more, or
(D) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the complete or partial liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation as a result of which an Interested Shareholder would receive any assets of the Corporation other than cash, or
(E) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries, or any similar transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Shareholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or indirectly beneficially owned by any Interested Shareholder, or
(F) any agreement, contract or other arrangement which upon consummation will result in any of the transactions described in this paragraph
(a) 1. shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the outstanding Voting Shares (as hereinafter defined).
2. The term "Business Combination", as used in this Article Fifth, shall mean any transaction which is referred to in any one or more of clauses (A) through (F) of paragraph (a)(1).
(b) 1. The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this Article Fifth shall not be applicable if either of the following conditions shall have been satisfied:
(A) the aggregate amount of the cash and fair market value (as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination) of consideration other than cash to be received per share of Common or Cumulative Preferred or other Preferred Stock or Capital Stock in such Business Combination by holders thereof shall be at least equal to the highest of the following:
(i) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by such Interested Shareholder for any shares of such class or series of stock acquired by it within the three-year period prior to the Business Combination (such price to be appropriately adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reclassification of securities and other similar events);
(ii) the per share book value of the shares of such class or series of stock as reported at the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the public announcement of the terms of the Business Combination;
 
(iii) an amount per share which, at a minimum, bears the same percentage relationship to the market price per share of the shares of such class or series of stock immediately prior to the announcement of the intention to effect the Business Combination as the highest per share price determined in (i) above bears to the market price per share of the shares of such class or series of stock immediately prior to the acquisition by the Interested Shareholder of beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the shares of such class or series of stock but in no event in excess of two times the highest per share price determined in (i) above;
provided that (i) no Extraordinary Event (as hereinafter defined) occurs after the Interested Shareholder has become an Interested Shareholder and prior to the consummation of the Business Combination, and (ii) if the highest preferential amount per share of a series of Cumulative Preferred or other Preferred Stock to which the holders thereof would be entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation (regardless of whether the Business Combination to be consummated constitutes such an event) is greater than such aggregate amount, holders of such series of Cumulative Preferred or other Preferred Stock shall receive an amount for each such share at least equal to the highest preferential amount applicable to such series of Cumulative Preferred or other Preferred Stock; or
(B) Either (i) the Business Combination was approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder acquired beneficial ownership of in excess of 10% of the outstanding Voting Shares, (ii) the Interested Shareholder seeking to effect such Business Combination sought and obtained the prior approval of the Board of Directors of the Corporation to such Interested Shareholder's acquisition of beneficial ownership of 10% of the outstanding Voting Shares or (iii) the Business Combination was approved by at least two-thirds of the Continuing Directors of the Corporation.
(c) For the purposes of this Article Fifth:
1. A "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, or other entity. When two or more Persons act as a partnership, syndicate, association or other group for the purpose of acquiring, voting or disposing of Voting Shares, such partnership, syndicate, association or other group will be deemed a "Person" for the purposes of this Article.
2. "Interested Shareholder" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any profit sharing, employee stock ownership or other employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary or any trustee of or fiduciary with respect to any such plan acting in such capacity) who or which, together with its Affiliates and Associates (as hereinafter defined) and any other
 
Person acting in concert with such Person is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 10% of the Voting Shares as of the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote on any Business Combination.
3. A Person shall be the "beneficial owner" of any Voting Shares:
(A) which such Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates would be deemed to beneficially own under Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act as in effect on May 17, 1985, or
(B) which such Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates has (i) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (ii) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or
(C) which are beneficially owned (as defined in (A) or (B) of this paragraph 3) directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such first mentioned Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any Voting Shares.
4. A "Continuing Director" shall mean any member of the Board of Directors who is not affiliated with an Interested Shareholder and who was a member of the Board of Directors immediately prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder first beneficially owned more than 5% of the outstanding Voting Shares, and any successor to a Continuing Director who is not affiliated with an Interested Shareholder and is recommended to succeed a Continuing Director by two-thirds of the Continuing Directors.
5. "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings given those terms in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on May 18, 1984.
6. "Subsidiary" means any corporation, a majority of the voting shares of which is beneficially owned by the Corporation.
7. "Voting Shares" shall mean shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally for the election of directors (excluding any shares or series of capital stock entitled to vote only upon the occurrence of certain contingencies such as the nonpayment of dividends on Cumulative Preferred Stock or other Preferred Stock), considered for the purposes of this Article as a single class.
 
8. The term "Extraordinary Event" shall mean, as to any Business Combination and Interested Shareholder, any of the following events that is not approved by two-thirds of the Continuing Directors:
(A) any failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividend (whether or not cumulative) on outstanding Cumulative Preferred Stock or on any other Preferred Stock then outstanding; or
(B) any reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock); or
(C) any failure to increase the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction that has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the Common Stock; or
(D) the receipt by the Interested Shareholder, after such Interested Shareholder has become an Interested Shareholder, of a direct or indirect benefit (except proportionately as a shareholder) from any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation, whether in anticipation of or in connection with the Business Combination or otherwise.
(d) Two-thirds of the Continuing Directors (or, if there are no Continuing Directors, two-thirds of the Outside Directors) shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article Fifth on the basis of information known to them (1) the number of Voting Shares beneficially owned by any Person, (2) whether a Person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (3) whether the assets subject to any business combination or the consideration received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary has an aggregate fair market value of $15,000,000 or more, (4) whether the proposed transaction is subject to this Article Fifth, and (5) such other matters with respect to which a determination is required under this Article Fifth. Any such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this Article. For purposes of this paragraph (d), an Outside Director shall mean a Director of this Corporation who is not (i) an employee or officer of this Corporation or of any Interested Shareholder (or any Affiliate of such Interested Shareholder) seeking to propose or effect a Business Combination, or (ii) a Director, Associate or Affiliate of an Interested Shareholder or of any Affiliate of such Shareholder (other than by reason of being a Director of the Corporation) or (iii) any relative by blood, marriage or adoption (excluding relationships more remote than first cousin) of any of the foregoing.
(e) Nothing contained in this Article Fifth shall be construed to relieve any Interested Shareholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
 
(f) Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Amended Articles of Incorporation or of the Regulations of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that some lesser percentage may be specified by law, these Amended Articles of Incorporation or the Regulations of the Corporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the Voting Shares shall be required to amend, repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this Article Fifth.
SIXTH. The following provisions are hereby agreed to for the purpose of defining, limiting and regulating the exercise of the authority of the Corporation or of its shareholders, or of any class of its shareholders, or of its directors, or for the purpose of creating and defining rights and privileges of the shareholders among themselves.
(a) This Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in these Amended Articles of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by law, and all rights conferred on officers, directors, and shareholders herein, including but not limited to the rights of dissenting shareholders conferred by Ohio law, are granted subject to this reservation.
(b) Action on any matter at any shareholders' meeting, or without such meeting, regarding which the statutes of Ohio provide that unless otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation or regulations of a corporation, there shall be the affirmative vote or consent of a larger portion than the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereon or consent thereto, may be taken by the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of a majority of shares entitled to vote thereon or consent thereto, but in the event that the vote or consent is required to be by classes, then, except as otherwise provided herein, action may be taken on such matter by the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of a majority of each class of shares entitled to vote by classes on such matter.
 
(c) The Corporation may, when authorized by the Board of Directors and without any action by the shareholders, purchase, hold, sell and reissue any of its shares in such manner and under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the directors.
(d) The Board of Directors shall have the power and authority to determine the fair value of any property other than money to be received by the Corporation in payment of its shares.
(e) The foregoing clauses shall be construed both as objects and powers, and it is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing enumeration of specific powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any manner the powers of this Corporation, and are in furtherance of and in addition to, and not in limitation of, the general powers conferred by the laws of the State of Ohio.
SEVENTH. These Amended Articles of Incorporation supersede and take the place of the existing Amended Articles of Incorporation.
 


