FILE:KR/KR-8K-20060307090619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales and earnings could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. Increases in sales of our corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate. Operating margins could fail to improve if our operations in southern California do not improve as expected or if we are unsuccessful in containing our operating costs. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget. Square footage growth and the number of store projects completed during the year are dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. We anticipate expensing stock options during the fiscal year, as generally accepted accounting principles as currently in effect would require us to do so. Our estimated expense of $0.05-$0.06 per diluted share, from the adoption of stock option expensing, could vary if the assumptions that we used to calculate the expense prove to be inaccurate. The amount that we contribute to Company pension plans could vary if the amount of cash flow that we generate differs from that expected. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CINCINNATI, OH, March 7, 2006  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported total sales increased 7.5% to $14.7 billion for the fourth quarter ended January 28, 2006. Identical supermarket sales increased 6.2% with fuel and 4.7% without fuel. This represents Kroger's tenth consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel.
"The continued focus of Kroger's associates on delivering improved service, product selection, and value to our customers has generated another quarter of impressive identical sales growth. These results reflect the Company's highest identical supermarket sales growth since the merger with Fred Meyer in 1999," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "Sustainable identical sales growth is a key driver of Kroger's financial objective to increase earnings and generate value for our shareholders."
Net earnings totaled $282.1 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter. In the year-ago period, Kroger reported a net loss of $652.1 million, or $0.89 per diluted share. The year-ago results included a goodwill impairment charge of $903.8 million, pre-tax, that affected net earnings by $860.8 million, or $1.17 per diluted share.
Other highlights of the fourth quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2005 Results
For the full 2005 fiscal year, sales increased 7.3% to $60.6 billion. Identical supermarket sales increased 5.3% with fuel and 3.5% without fuel.
Net earnings for fiscal 2005 were $958.0 million, or $1.31 per diluted share. For fiscal 2004, Kroger reported a net loss of $104.2 million, or $0.14 per diluted share.
"Thanks to the hard work and dedication of our associates, Kroger delivered a strong performance in 2005 that exceeded our original expectations, including both sales and earnings," said Mr. Dillon.
 
Guidance
Over the past several years, Kroger has been transitioning its business model to meet the changing needs and expectations of our customers. This strategic plan requires a balance among several elements  including sales, earnings, and capital investment  and is driven by strong, sustainable identical sales growth. Kroger plans to grow identical sales through merchandising and operating initiatives that improve the shopping experience and build customer loyalty. These initiatives will be funded by operating cost reductions and productivity improvements. As a result of this strategy, Kroger expects to deliver earnings per share growth in 2006 and 2007 of 6 - 8% per year. In addition, shareholder value will be enhanced by the yield associated with the cash dividend announced earlier today.
The estimated range for earnings per share growth in fiscal 2006 includes the effect of beginning to recognize stock option expense, which is largely offset by the benefit of a 53rd week in fiscal 2006. Kroger's earnings per share growth will be driven by strong identical sales, slightly improving operating margins, and share repurchases.
For fiscal 2006, Kroger also expects:
 
 
 
"We believe that Kroger's 2006 strategic plan is a balanced approach that will allow Kroger to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of customers. This, in turn, will position the Company to deliver value to our shareholders in the form of a strong business model that produces solid, sustainable growth in both earnings and the dividend announced earlier today," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Initiation of Cash Dividend
Kroger today announced that its Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy and declared the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.065 per share. The Company reiterated its commitment to Kroger's long-term financial strategy of using one-third of free cash flow for debt reduction and two-thirds for share repurchase and the payment of a cash dividend.
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. At the end of fiscal 2005, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,507 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's and Smith's Marketplace, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 791 convenience stores, 428 fine jewelry stores, 579 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at /.
http://www.kroger.com
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words "plans," "will," "expects," and "commitment." These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our ability to achieve the expected increases in sales, earnings and dividends could be adversely affected by the competitive environment in which we operate. In addition any labor dispute, delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. In addition, increases in sales of our corporate brand products and the "sister store" impact of our new store openings, could adversely affect identical store sales. Our ability to increase same store sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as the success of our merchandising and operating initiatives geared, among other things, at reducing costs and improving productivity. The payment of future dividends is dependent upon the Company's financial condition permitting the payment under Ohio law; its operations continuing to generate sufficient free cash flow to warrant the payment of a dividend and market conditions and applicable laws and regulations making payment of a dividend appropriate. Any future dividend payments will depend upon the judgment of the Board, based upon the best interests of the Company, its shareholders and other constituents, and will be made only at the Board's discretion. Our capital expenditures could vary if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted, or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame
 
expected or on budget. We anticipate expensing stock options during the fiscal year, as generally accepted accounting principles as currently in effect would require us to do so. Our estimated expense of $0.05-$0.06 per diluted share, from the adoption of stock option expensing, could vary if the assumptions that we used to calculate the expense prove to be inaccurate. The Company's long-term strategy of using one-third of free cash flow for debt reduction and two-thirds for share repurchase and the payment of a dividend will depend on our ability to generate sales and to reduce costs and manage our gross margin, as well as our ability to manage our working capital. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on March 7, 2006 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through March 17, 2006.
http://www.thekrogerco.com/finance/financialinfo_investorconferencecalls.htm
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity. Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity. Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the fourth quarter of 2005 to the balances in the fourth quarters of 2004 and 1999.
 

Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549
Re: Form 8-K Filed March 7, 2006
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Enclosed herewith for filing is the Company's Form 8-K. Should you have any questions regarding this filing please call me at (513) 762-1482.
 
Enc.


