FILE:KR/KR-8K-20070313094835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Our ability to achieve sales and earnings per share goals may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; weather conditions; stock repurchases; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel. Operating margins could fail to improve if our operations do not continue to improve as expected or if we are unsuccessful in containing our operating costs. In addition any delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets. Our capital expenditures could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected. Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products. Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects. Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. The amount of our contribution to Company-sponsored retirement plans will depend primarily on the success of our strategic plan and the extent to which we are able to generate free cash flow.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
     CINCINNATI, Ohio, March 13, 2007  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported total sales increased 14.5% to $16.9 billion for the fourth quarter ended February 3, 2007. After adjusting for the extra week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, total sales increased 5.7% over the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.
     Identical supermarket sales increased 5.6% with fuel and 5.3% without fuel, based on a 13-week period in both years.
     "Kroger's strong fourth quarter results demonstrate once again that our associates understand the importance of offering customers improved service, product quality and selection, and value," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer. "Our Company delivered another quarter of impressive identical sales growth  the key driver of our objective to increase earnings and create value for our shareholders."
     Net earnings in the fourth quarter totaled $384.8 million, or $0.54 per diluted share. The current quarter benefited by $0.03 per diluted share from the adjustments of certain deferred tax balances. This was not contemplated in the Company's guidance.
     Net earnings in the same period last year were $282.1 million, or $0.39 per diluted share.
     Other highlights of the fourth quarter included:
FIFO gross margin declined 37 basis points to 24.48% of sales. Excluding the effect of retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin declined 29 basis points. Kroger continued to invest in lower prices for customers.
Operating, general and administrative (OG&A) costs as a percentage of sales decreased 32 basis points to 17.65%. Excluding the effect of retail fuel operations and stock option expense, OG&A declined 34 basis points.
1
Total debt was $7.1 billion, a reduction of $172.9 million from a year ago.
Kroger repurchased 4.6 million shares of stock at an average price of $23.13 for a total investment of $105.8 million. At the end of the fourth quarter, $233.0 million remained under the $500 million stock buyback announced in May 2006.
     Since January 2000, Kroger has invested $5.6 billion to repurchase shares and to reduce debt. Of this total, $3.6 billion was used to repurchase 184.7 million shares at an average price of $19.56 per share. Debt was reduced by $2.0 billion.
Fiscal Year 2006 Results
     For the full 2006 fiscal year, total sales increased 9.2% to $66.1 billion. After adjusting for the extra week in fiscal 2006, total sales increased 7.0% over fiscal 2005. Identical supermarket sales increased 6.4% with fuel and 5.6% without fuel, based on a 53-week period in both years.
     Net earnings for fiscal 2006 were $1.11 billion, or $1.54 per diluted share. Fiscal 2006 included a 53 week that benefited the year by an estimated $0.07 per diluted share. It also included $0.03 of expense per diluted share for legal reserves recorded in the first quarter. Both of these items were contemplated in the Company's December guidance of 8  10% growth in earnings per diluted share. Additionally, fiscal 2006 benefited by $0.03 per diluted share from the adjustments of certain deferred tax balances that were not contemplated in the Company's guidance.
rd
     In fiscal 2005, net earnings were $958.0 million, or $1.31 per diluted share.
     "Kroger delivered consistently strong results during 2006, exceeding our original guidance for both identical supermarket sales and earnings per share," said Mr. Dillon. "These results and the gains we have made in market share throughout the year indicate that Kroger continues to compete effectively in this challenging environment. Our associates' commitment to our plan will continue to enable us to deliver the service and value our customers expect."
 
2
Fiscal 2007 Guidance
     Based on the momentum of its fiscal 2006 performance, Kroger anticipates earnings of $1.60  $1.65 per diluted share in fiscal 2007. This equates to 9  12% growth from the adjusted fiscal 2006 earnings per diluted share shown in Table 5. Shareholder return will be further enhanced by the Company's dividend.
     Kroger's earnings per share growth in fiscal 2007 will be driven by strong identical sales, slightly improving operating margins, and fewer shares outstanding. This growth rate assumes a stable labor environment. The Company expects identical supermarket sales growth of 3 - 5%, excluding fuel sales, for fiscal 2007.
     "Our performance last year is the result of the hard work and dedication of our associates. We appreciate their continued efforts on behalf of our customers and look forward to their contributions in 2007," Mr. Dillon said.
     Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger is one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains. The Company focuses its charitable efforts on hunger relief, K-12 education, women's health initiatives and local organizations in the communities it serves. At the end of fiscal 2006, the Company operated (either directly or through its subsidiaries) 2,468 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banners including Kroger and Kroger Marketplace, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith's and Smith's Marketplace, Fry's and Fry's Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market. Kroger also operated (either directly or through subsidiaries, franchise agreements, or operating agreements) 779 convenience stores, 412 fine jewelry stores, 631 supermarket fuel centers and 42 food processing plants. For more information about Kroger, please visit our web site at .
www.kroger.com
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. Such statements are indicated by the words "anticipates," "will," "guidance," and "expects." Increased competition, weather and economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel, and labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, operating margin, earnings per share, and earnings per share growth.
 
3
 
These same factors could affect the extent to which our strategic plan is successful. Earnings per share and earnings per share growth also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and our success in reducing the number of shares outstanding. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on March 13, 2007 at and . An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through March 23, 2007.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
4
Note: Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
The adjusted earnings per diluted share amount illustrated below should not be considered as a GAAP measure of performance. It is included for purposes of calculating anticipated fiscal year 2007 earnings per diluted share.


