FILE:KR/KR-8K-20080916091611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
 
:
Labor
 
We have negotiations this year covering store associates in Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Portland.  Negotiations this year will be challenging as we must have competitive cost structures in each market while meeting our associates' needs for good wages and affordable health care.
 
Effect of Hurricane Ike
:
 
Hurricane Ike and its remnants have affected Kroger's operations in Texas and several other states particularly Indiana, Kentucky, and Ohio.
The effect on the Texas market will include physical property damage, product loss due to power outages, and the effect of stores closed either as a result of physical damage or power outages.  The Company cannot yet predict when power will be fully restored in the Texas market.
 
On Sunday, September 14, 2008, hurricane-force winds caused widespread power outages in Indiana, Kentucky, and Ohio.  These outages have affected power supply to the Company's stores, distribution centers, and manufacturing plants. The effect on these markets will include physical property damage, product loss due to power outages, and the effect of closed stores, distribution centers and manufacturing plants.  The Company cannot yet predict when power will be fully restored in these markets.
 
We continue to work diligently to reopen affected facilities with generator power. Full operation of these facilities is dependent on power being restored. The timing of this restoration can not yet be determined.
 
Additionally, it is not yet clear the extent to which oil refineries in the Gulf Coast area have been damaged or will have power restored to resume gasoline production.  It is to early to predict the magnitude of the disruption to supply.
 
Kroger's property insurance programs provide comprehensive coverage for wind damage and business interruption above a $25 million retention up to $725 million.  This coverage includes a sub-limit of $475 million for flood losses above the $25 million retention.
 
It is too early to determine what effect these conditions will have on Kroger's fiscal 2008 guidance  including identical supermarket sales growth (excluding fuel sales), net earnings per diluted share, operating margin, capital projects, and supermarket square footage growth.
 
Kroger anticipates discussing its third quarter and fourth quarter results for fiscal 2008 when appropriate, both including and excluding any material effects from Hurricane Ike and its remnants to facilitate transparent communication with investors regarding the Company's operations that did not experience adverse weather-related effects.
 
Our ability to achieve sales and earnings per share goals may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; weather conditions; stock repurchases; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel.  In addition, any delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products.  Our guidance assumes that the Company's fuel
margins in 2008 will be comparable to those achieved in 2007.  Our capital expenditures, and the number of projects that we complete, could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected.    Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, September 16, 2008  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported total sales of $18.1 billion for the second quarter ended August 16, 2008, an increase of 11.9% over the same period last year.  Identical supermarket sales increased 9.7% with fuel and 4.7% without fuel compared with the same quarter last year.
 
Net earnings in the second quarter totaled $276.5 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.  Net earnings in the same period last year were $267.3 million, or $0.38 per diluted share.
 
"Kroger's second quarter results were strong.  Our Customer 1 strategy allows us to create value for our shareholders and deliver a value proposition that servesour customers," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer.  "We continue to generate cash flow to sustain our strong capital program and reduce outstanding shares.  At the same time, we are investing in improving our customers' overall shopping experience.  Our ability to balance these objectives is fundamental to our success, particularly in today's challenging economic environment."
st
 
FIFO Gross Margin
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin (Table 1) was 22.31% of sales, a decline of 163 basis points compared to the second quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin declined 51 basis points.
 
LIFO
 
The Company recorded a $46.2 million LIFO charge during the quarter, an increase of $6.5 million over the prior year.  Excluding retail fuel sales, the LIFO charge increased 3 basis points as a rate of sales compared to the prior year.
 
Operating, General & Administrative (OG&A) Costs
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, OG&A costs were 16.37% of sales, a decline of 114 basis points compared to the second quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, OG&A decreased 28 basis points.  The prior year OG&A rate included pre-opening and transition costs associated with the Scott's and Farmer Jack acquisitions.  The current year rate benefited from the absence of these costs.  The current year rate also benefited from strong sales leverage and lower incentive compensation, which offset inflationary pressures in several areas, including credit card fees, utilities, and store supplies.
 
Rent and Depreciation
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, rent and depreciation expense were 2.65% of sales, a decrease of 20 basis points compared to the second quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, rent and depreciation expense declined 6 basis points as a rate of sales.
 
Capital Investment
 
million for the second quarter, compared with $480.9 million in the prior year.  Capital projects during the second quarter included 9 new, expanded, or relocated stores and 51 remodels.  The Company is on track to open, expand or relocate 70 to 80 stores and complete between 175 and 200 store remodels during fiscal 2008.
Capital investment, excluding acquisitions, totaled $478.1
 
Free Cash Flow
 
The Company manages its use of free cash flow to maintain a leverage ratio that supports its solid investment grade rating.  On a rolling four-quarters basis, Kroger's net total debt (Table 5) to EBITDA ratio was 1.90, compared with 1.81 during the same period last year.  Total debt was $7.6 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion from a year ago. Total debt decreased $176.2 million from the first quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
During the quarter, Kroger repurchased 5.6 million shares of stock at an average price of $28.14 per share for a total investment of $157.7 million.  At the end of the second quarter, approximately $540.9 million remained under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in January 2008.
 
Fiscal 2008 Year-to-Date Results
 
During the first two quarters of fiscal 2008, total sales increased 11.7% to $41.2 billion.  For the same period, identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel, increased 5.3%.
 
a flat to slightly improved operating margin.
The Company's operating margin for the first two quarters of fiscal 2008 decreased 14 basis points.  Excluding fuel and charges for labor unrest in the first quarter of 2007, Kroger's operating margin for the first two quarters of fiscal 2008 decreased 8 basis points, of which 6 basis points is a result of the higher LIFO charge.  For fiscal year 2008, the Company expects
 
Net earnings for the first two quarters of fiscal 2008 were $662.5 million, or $1.00 per diluted share.  Net earnings for the same period last year were $603.8 million, or $0.85 per diluted share.
 
"Our year-to-date performance demonstrates Kroger's ability to deliver sustainable results today while we continue to invest for the future," said Mr. Dillon.  "We know market conditions will continue to be a challenge and we believe our strategy works well in good times and bad.  Kroger's team and our overall strategy clearly stand out in the current environment."
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Guidance  Before Effect of Hurricane Ike
 
Based on Kroger's year-to-date results and management's outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year, the Company raised the low end of its range for annual identical sales guidance to 4.5%.  Kroger now expects identical sales growth of 4.5% to 5.5%, excluding fuel, for fiscal 2008.
 
The Company confirmed its fiscal 2008 earnings guidance of $1.85 to $1.90 per diluted share.  This range reflects 9% to 12% growth over fiscal 2007 earnings of $1.69 per diluted share.  Kroger expects that its full-year earnings per share growth will be driven by a combination of strong identical sales, a flat to slightly improved operating margin, excluding fuel, and fewer shares outstanding.  Kroger's dividend yield of more than 1% further enhances shareholder return.
 
For the second half of fiscal 2008, Kroger expects solid results from its core grocery operations.  As stated in previous guidance, the Company anticipates that its lowest year-over-year earnings per share growth rate will occur in the third quarter.  Third quarter results in fiscal 2007 included a $40 million tax benefit that was somewhat offset by low fuel margins and incremental investments in Kroger's Customer 1st strategy, resulting in a net benefit of approximately $0.02 to $0.03 per diluted share.  As a result, the Company anticipates its third quarter 2008 earnings per share results will range from slightly below to slightly above prior year results.  After adjusting for the prior year net benefit, this would represent an increase in this year's expected third quarter earnings per share.
 
As stated in previous guidance, Kroger expects its fourth quarter earnings per share growth rate will be higher than its annual growth rate.
 
The Company's expectations for the second half of 2008 exclude any impact from Hurricane Ike.  The hurricane and its remnants affected Kroger operations in Texas and several inland states particularly Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio.  The financial impact of the hurricane will not be significant enough to cause Kroger to alter its strategy.  The final result of thedamage and disruption from the storm could affect much of the guidance contained in this release.  A more detailed description of the potential impact on Kroger's guidance is included in the 8-K the Company filed today.
 
"Associates in every area of our business are focused on executing our Customer 1 strategy to meet the changing needs of today's shoppers.  As a Company, we are committed to delivering the results we have forecasted for the year," Mr. Dillon said.
st
 
Kroger, one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains, is honored to celebrate its 125th anniversary in 2008.  The Company's more than 320,000 associates serve customers in 2,476 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, Fry's, King Soopers, Smith's, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  Kroger associates also serve customers in 779 convenience stores, 393 fine jewelry stores and 737 supermarket fuel centers the
 
Company operates.  The Company also operates 41 food processing plants in the U.S.  Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger focuses its charitable efforts on supporting hunger relief, health and wellness initiatives, and local schools and grassroots organizations in the communities it serves.  For more information about the Company, please visit our web site at www.kroger.com.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company.  These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it.  Such statements are indicated by words such as "anticipates," "on track" and "expects."  Increased competition, weather, including Hurricane Ike, and economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel, and labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per share, and earnings per share growth.  These same factors could affect the extent to which we are successful in generating free cash flow to maintain a leverage ratio that supports a solid investment grade rating.  Earnings per share and earnings per share growth also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding, our success in reducing the number of shares outstanding, and volatility in the Company's fuel margins.  The number of store projects that we complete could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores or store projects are not completed in the time frame expected due to weather, including Hurricane Ike.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.  We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein.  Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on September 16, 2008 at and .  An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through September 26, 2008.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
Kroger Contacts:
 
 
 
 
Note:  Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.  Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Note:  The Company defines FIFO gross margin as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the Last-In First-Out (LIFO) charge.  This measure is included to reflect trends in current cost of product.
 
Merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses exclude depreciation expense and rent expense which are included in separate expense lines.
(a)
         
 
LIFO charges of $46.2 and $39.7 were recorded in the second quarter of 2008 and 2007, respectively.  For the year-to-date period, LIFO charges of $86.2 and $60.0 were recorded for 2008 and 2007, respectively.
(b)
        
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
(a) Cash - Temporary investments represent Euros held to settle Euro - denominated contracts, and escrow deposits.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance.  Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
Kroger defines a supermarket as identical when it has been open without expansion or relocation for five full quarters.
(a)
         
 
Kroger defines a supermarket as comparable when it has been open for five full quarters, including expansions and relocations.
(b)
        
 
OTHER INFORMATION
 
Note: Fuel sales have a very low FIFO gross margin rate, OG&A rate, and operating margin rate, as compared to corresponding rates on non-fuel sales. As a result, the Company discloses such rates excluding the effect of retail fuel operations.
 
 
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity.  Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity, and a primary component of measuring compliance with the financial covenants under the Company's credit facility.  Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the second quarter of 2008 to the balances in the second quarter of 2007 and the fourth quarter of 1999.
 
 


