FILE:KR/KR-8K-20090625161027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
CINCINNATI, Ohio, June 25, 2009  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today announced President and Chief Operating Officer Don McGeorge's decision to retire and the election by Kroger's Board of Directors of W. Rodney McMullen as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.
 
"Don is a rare executive who combines strong strategic and merchandising skills with a deep respect for his fellow associates," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Mr. McGeorge, 55, began his distinguished 32-year career with Kroger as a store co-manager in Louisville.  He went on to serve as President of Kroger's Michigan and Columbus Divisions and was later named Executive Vice President, responsible for all sales and merchandising, before being elected to his current role in 2003.
 
During his career, Mr. McGeorge spearheaded the development of Kroger's three-tier corporate brands strategy and was an integral part of the team that led the centralization of procurement, merchandising and category management to leverage Kroger's economies of scale.
 
Both Mr. McGeorge and Mr. McMullen have been part of the leadership team that has helped create Kroger's success, Mr. Dillon said.  In order to facilitate a smooth transition, Mr. McGeorge will work closely with Kroger until late in the year.  He has been elected Special Advisor to the CEO and will remain on Kroger's Board of Directors during that time.
 
Mr. McMullen will assume the responsibilities of President and Chief Operating Officer on August 1, 2009.  He was elected to his current role as Vice Chairman in 2003.
 
"Rodney has played a key role in developing Kroger's Customer 1
st
 and Associate 1
st
 strategies," Mr. Dillon said. "We look forward to his insightful leadership of Kroger's diverse operations as he assumes his new role."
 
Mr. McMullen joined Kroger in 1978 as a part-time store clerk.  He has since held positions of increasing responsibility, including Corporate Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Strategy, Planning and Finance.  In his current role, Mr. McMullen's responsibilities include strategic initiatives, business planning, customer research, finance, corporate technology, real estate, logistics, fuel initiatives and the Company's convenience and jewelry stores.
 
"I consider it a privilege to work with the great team of associates we have in all areas of our Company.  I appreciate Don's support as we make this transition and I look forward to working with Dave and our entire team as we build on Kroger's success," said Mr. McMullen, 48.
 
Kroger, one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains, employs more than 326,000 associates who serve customers in 2,475 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states. Kroger operates stores under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, Fry's, King Soopers, Smith's, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  In
 
 
addition, Kroger associates serve customers in 764 convenience stores, 387 fine jewelry stores and 798 supermarket fuel centers the Company operates.  Kroger also operates 40 food processing plants in the U.S.  Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger focuses its charitable efforts on supporting hunger relief, health and wellness initiatives, and local schools and grassroots organizations in the communities it serves.  For more information about the Company, please visit www.kroger.com.
 
 
Kroger Contacts:
 


