FILE:KR/KR-8K-20090310092946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02
                                              
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 10, 2009, the Company released its earnings for fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008.  Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01
                                              
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Labor
:
 
We have negotiations this year covering store associates in Albuquerque, Arizona, Atlanta, Dallas, Dayton, Denver and Portland.  Negotiations this year will be challenging as we must have competitive cost structures in each market while meeting our associates' needs for good wages and affordable health care, and we must address the underfunding of Taft-Hartley pension plans.
 
Our ability to achieve sales and earnings per share goals may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; weather conditions; stock repurchases; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel. In addition, any delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products. Our guidance for identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel and LIFO assumes product cost inflation of 1  2%.  Our estimate of product cost inflation could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control.  Our non-fuel operating margin could fail to expand if we are unable to pass on any cost increases, if our strategies fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated, or if changes in the cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differs from our expectations.  Our LIFO charge and the timing of our recognition of LIFO expense will be affected primarily by food inflation during the year.  Our fuel margins could fail to normalize at 11% if the current pattern of rapid decreases in fuel costs continues.  Our capital expenditures, and the number of projects that we complete, could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected.  Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Should asset values in the multi-employer pension funds further deteriorate, or if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our contributions could increase more than we have anticipated. The actual amount of cash contributions to our 401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of employees who participate and the level of their participation.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
                                              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
           
Exhibits
.
 
99.1
                                               
Earnings release for fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008, filed herewith.
 SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, March 10, 2009  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings totaled $349.2 million, or $0.53 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 ended January 31, 2009, compared with net earnings of $322.9 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, in the same period last year.
 
Total sales in the fourth quarter were $17.3 billion compared with $17.2 billion for the same period last year.  Excluding fuel sales at the Company's supermarket fuel centers and convenience stores, total sales increased 4.4% over the prior year.  Identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel, increased 3.8% over the same period last year.
 
"Kroger offered real value to customers when they needed it most through lower prices, led by our high-quality Kroger brands.  The Kroger team did a remarkable job during the quarter and throughout the entire year of consistently delivering results in an increasingly difficult economic environment," said David B. Dillon, Kroger chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Details of Fourth Quarter Results
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin (Table 1) was 24.41% of sales, an increase of 85 basis points compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin declined 8 basis points and supermarket selling gross margin declined 36 basis points.  Improvements in shrink as well as warehouse and transportation expenses funded a portion of Kroger's continued investment in lower prices for customers.
 
The Company recorded a $40.9 million LIFO charge during the quarter, a decrease of $13.3 million from the prior year.  Excluding retail fuel sales, the LIFO charge decreased 10 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, operating, general, and administrative (OG&A) costs were 17.47% of sales, an increase of 66 basis points compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, the OG&A rate decreased 3 basis points.
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, rent and depreciation expense was 2.88% of sales, an increase of 8 basis points compared to the fourth quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, rent and depreciation expense declined 4 basis points as a percent of sales.
 
Financial Strategy
 
million for the fourth quarter, compared to $468.6 million in the prior year.
Capital investment, excluding acquisitions, totaled $434.0
 
Net total debt was $7.7 billion, a decrease of $24.1 million from a year ago.  On a rolling four-quarters basis, Kroger's net total debt (Table 5) to EBITDA ratio was 1.89 compared with 2.03 during the same period last year.  Kroger expects to continue to improve its debt coverages.
 
During the fourth quarter, Kroger repurchased 0.5 million shares of stock at an average price of $25.55 per share for a total investment of $11.5 million.  At the end of the quarter, $492.8 million remained under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in January 2008.
 
Kroger Brand Performance
 
Approximately 27% of Kroger's fourth quarter grocery revenue came from sales of its exclusive Kroger brands and Kroger brands reached a record-high 35% of grocery unit sales.  All three tiers of the Company's $12.5 billion Kroger brand portfolio experienced strong growth during the quarter.  Growth was exceptionally strong for the Value and Private Selection tiers.  Kroger banner brands experienced their strongest year-over-year growth during the quarter.
 
Fiscal Year 2008 Results
 
For fiscal year 2008, total sales increased 8.2% to $76.0 billion over the same period last year.  Identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel, rose 5.0% compared with the same period a year ago.
 
dividend added over 1% to total shareholder return.
Net earnings for fiscal year 2008 were $1.25 billion, or $1.90 per diluted share.  Net earnings in fiscal 2007 were $1.18 billion, or $1.69 per diluted share.  Current year results include expenses for damage and disruption caused by Hurricane Ike in the third quarter.  Excluding these hurricane-related expenses, fiscal year 2008 net earnings were $1.27 billion, or $1.92 per diluted share (Table 6).  These results represent year-over-year growth of 13.6%.  On top of that growth, Kroger's quarterly
 
 
"Kroger's ability to adapt quickly to the changing needs of today's shoppers served customers, shareholders and associates well last year.  Our company's Customer 1
st
 strategy and the business model that supports it continue to be powerful competitive advantages," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Market Share
 
Kroger made significant gains in market share during 2008.  In its major markets, the Company gained 61 basis points of additional market share, according to the internal methodology Kroger has used consistently to estimate its market share.  This is the fourth consecutive year Kroger has achieved significant market share gain.  Over the past four years combined, Kroger's share in its major markets has increased roughly 225 basis points.
 
"These market share gains are impressive, and there is still plenty of market share opportunity out there for us," Mr. Dillon said.  "We estimate that approximately 45% of the share in our major markets  as much as $100 billion  is still held by competitors who do not have Kroger's economies of scale.  Our economies of scale allow Kroger to deliver increasing value to customers, which is a competitive edge, particularly in today's operating environment."
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Guidance
 
Kroger is forecasting identical supermarket sales and earnings per share growth in 2009.
 
The Company now expects full-year identical supermarket sales growth, excluding fuel, of 3% to 4% for fiscal 2009.  This guidance reflects the Company's outlook for product cost inflation of 1% to 2% compared to its earlier forecast of 2% to 3%.
 
Kroger believes its strong identical sales growth and operating margin expansion  both excluding fuel sales  will produce full-year 2009 earnings of $2.00 to $2.05 per diluted share.  This guidance reflects Kroger's commitment to deliver solid near-term financial results while investing for the future growth of its business.  Kroger's dividend enhances total shareholder return by over 1%.
 
"Kroger is positioned well to win with customers in 2009 and beyond by building on the unique combination of values we offer customers that no other competitor can match.  Our strategy allows us to consistently deliver solid results for shareholders in the near-term and, at the same time, it enables us to invest in Kroger's future growth," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Kroger, one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains, employs more than 326,000 associates who serve customers in 2,481 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states. Kroger operates stores under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, Fry's, King Soopers, Smith's, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  In addition, Kroger associates serve customers in 771 convenience stores, 385 fine jewelry stores and 781 supermarket fuel centers the Company operates.  Kroger also operates 41 food processing plants in the U.S.  Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Kroger focuses its charitable efforts on supporting hunger relief, health and wellness initiatives, and local schools and grassroots organizations in the communities it serves.  For more information about the Company, please visit www.kroger.com.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company.  These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it.  Such statements are indicated by words such as "expects," "forecasting," "outlook," "believe," and "will."  Increased competition, weather, economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel, and labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per share, and earnings per share growth.  Earnings per share and earnings per share growth also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and volatility in the Company's fuel margins.  Our ability to continue to improve our debt coverage could be affected by unanticipated increases in net total debt, our inability to generate free cash flow at the levels anticipated, and our failure to generate expected earnings.  Our estimate of product cost inflation could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.  We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein.  Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live via the Internet at 10 a.m. (ET) on March 10, 2009 at and .  An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through March 20, 2009.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
Kroger Contacts:
 
Media:    Meghan Glynn (513) 762-1304
 
Investors:              Carin Fike (513) 762-4969
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.  Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Note:  The Company defines FIFO gross margin, as described in the earnings release, as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the Last-In First-Out (LIFO) charge.  This measure is included to reflect trends in current cost of product.
 
Merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses exclude depreciation expense and rent expense which are included in separate expense lines.
(a)
                 
 
LIFO charges of $40.9 and $54.2 were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 2007, respectively.  For the year-to-date period, LIFO charges of $195.9 and $154.2 were recorded for 2008 and 2007, respectively.
(b)
                
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
(a) Cash - Temporary investments represent Euros held to settle Euro - denominated contracts, and escrow deposits. Decline in balance resulted primarily from payments made on the Euro - denominated contracts.
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance. Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
 
 
(a)   Kroger defines a supermarket as identical when it has been open without expansion or relocation for five full quarters.
 
(b)   Kroger defines a supermarket as comparable when it has been open for five full quarters, including expansions and relocations.
 
 
OTHER INFORMATION
 
Note: Fuel sales have historically had a low FIFO gross margin rate, OG&A rate, and operating margin rate, as compared to corresponding rates on non-fuel sales. As a result, the Company discloses such rates excluding the effect of retail fuel operations.
 
 
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity. Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity, and a primary component of measuring compliance with the financial covenants under the Company's credit facility. Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the fourth quarter of 2008 to the balances in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the fourth quarter of 1999.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain per share amounts may not calculate due to rounding.
 


