FILE:KR/KR-8K-20091208081005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02
            
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On December 8, 2009, the Company released its earnings for third quarter 2009.  Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01
           
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Labor
:
 
We have negotiations this year covering store associates in Atlanta, Dallas and Portland.  Negotiations this year will be challenging as we must have competitive cost structures in each market while meeting our associates' needs for good wages and affordable health care, and we must address the underfunding of Taft-Hartley pension plans.
 
Other Guidance
:
 
The Company anticipates current operating conditions will extend at least through the first half of fiscal 2010.  Deflation is expected to moderate throughout the year, and Kroger will be cycling many of the price investments put in place during the first half of 2009.  The Company believes that the combination of these factors will produce 2010 identical sales growth, excluding fuel, and earnings per share growth, both above the forecasted 2009 full-year results, excluding the southern California impairment charges.
 
Given the current environment, Kroger now anticipates investing less than $2 billion annually, on average, in capital projects during the next three fiscal years, which is approximately $1 billion less than the Company's original plan for that time period.
 
In 2010, we will negotiate contracts covering store associates in Houston, Toledo, Seattle, Michigan, Little Rock, and Cincinnati.  We will also negotiate a Teamster contract in southern California.
 
Our ability to achieve sales and earnings per share goals may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; the extent to which our customers exercise caution in their purchasing in response to economic conditions; weather conditions; stock repurchases; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; unexpected changes in product costs; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel. In addition, any delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products. Our guidance for identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel assumes that the third quarter trends including persistent deflation, increased competitive activity and cautious spending behavior of customers continue for the remainder of the fiscal year. The extent to which the adjustments we are making to our strategy creates value for our shareholders will depend primarily on the reaction of our customers and our competitors to these adjustments, as well as operating conditions, including persistent deflation, increased competitive activity, and cautious spending behavior of our customers. Although we believe that deflation will moderate in 2010, it could fail to do so, or could increase and could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings and capital expenditures.  Our guidance for LIFO is based on our forecast of cost changes for products in our inventory. Our estimate of product cost changes could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control. Our non-fuel operating margin guidance could change if we are unable to pass on any cost increases, if our strategies fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated, or if changes in the cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differ from our expectations.  Our LIFO charge and the timing of our recognition of LIFO expense will be affected by changes in product costs during the year.  Our fuel margins could fail to normalize at 11 per gallon if the pattern of rapid changes in fuel costs continues.  Our capital expenditures, and the number of projects that we complete, could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs vary from those budgeted; or our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected; or if current operating conditions fail to improve, or worsen.  Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Should asset values in the multi-employer pension funds further deteriorate, or if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our contributions could increase more than we have anticipated. The actual amount of cash contributions to our 401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of employees who participate and the level of their participation.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
           
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
   
Exhibits
.
 
99.1            Earnings release for third quarter 2009, filed herewith.
 
 SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, December 8, 2009  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported identical supermarket sales increased 1.3% without fuel in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 ended November 7, 2009, compared with the same period last year.
 
Total sales, including fuel, in the third quarter were $17.7 billion compared with $17.6 billion for the same period last year.  Excluding fuel sales, total sales increased 2.2% over the prior year.
 
Kroger reported a net loss for the third quarter of $874.9 million, or $1.35 per diluted share.  These results include non-cash asset impairment charges totaling $1.05 billion, after-tax, that primarily resulted from a goodwill write-down at the Company's Ralphs division in southern California.  Excluding these impairment charges, net earnings for the quarter would have been $176.7 million, or $0.27 per diluted share (Table 6).
 
Net earnings in the same period last year were $237.7 million, or $0.36 per diluted share.
 
"The operating environment we saw during the third quarter was more challenging than we anticipated, obscuring some otherwise strong fundamentals in our performance such as exceptional tonnage growth, market share gains, increases in loyal household count, and good cost control.  These fundamentals are important to our long-term success," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's chairman and chief executive officer.  "In the near-term, our financial results are being pressured by factors including persistent deflation, unusually intense competition and the cautious mindset of customers.  We are making adjustments to balance the challenges of the current environment with Kroger's long-term objective for sustainable identical sales and earnings growth, which we believe will create value for shareholders."
 
Details of Third Quarter Results
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin (Table 1) was 22.71% of sales, a decrease of 79 basis points compared to the third quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel
operations, FIFO gross margin decreased 88 basis points.  Supermarket selling gross margin on non-fuel sales decreased 109 basis points.
 
T
he Company recorded a $9.9 million LIFO charge during the quarter, a decrease of $58.9 million from the same period in the prior year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, the LIFO charge decreased 40 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the same period in the prior year.
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, operating, general, and administrative (OG&A) costs were 17.77% of sales, an increase of 15 basis points compared to the third quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, the southern California impairment charges and the effect of Hurricane Ike in 2008, OG&A would have declined 18 basis points compared with the same period last year as a result of lower utility costs and lower incentive pay.
 
Financial Strategy
 
Capital investment, excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities, totaled $552.1
million for the third quarter, compared with $603.9 million for the same period last year.  Given the current environment, Kroger now anticipates investing less than $2 billion annually, on average, in capital projects during the next three fiscal years, which is approximately $1 billion less than the Company's original plan for that time period.
 
Net total debt (Table 5) was $7.7 billion, a decrease of $257.7 million from a year ago.  On a rolling four-quarters basis, Kroger's net total debt to EBITDA ratio, adjusted for the southern California impairment charges in 2009, was 1.93 compared with 1.95 during the same period last year.  Kroger expects to continue to maintain its debt coverages on a year-over-year basis.
 
During the third quarter, Kroger repurchased 2.4 million shares of stock at an average price of $21.35 per share for a total investment of $50.5 million.  At the end of the quarter, $386.3 million remained under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in January 2008.
 
Fiscal 2009 Year-to-Date Results
 
For the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, total sales were $58.2 billion compared with $58.9 billion for the same period last year.  Excluding fuel sales, total sales increased 3.3% over the
same period in the prior year.  For the same period, identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel, increased 2.4%.
 
Kroger reported a net loss of $185.4 million for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, or $0.28 per diluted share.  Excluding the southern California impairment charges, net earnings would have been $866.2 million, or $1.33 per diluted share (Table 6).
 
Net earnings for the same period last year were $900.2 million, or $1.36 per diluted share.
 
Kroger's operating margin for the first three quarters of fiscal 2009 decreased 204 basis points compared to the year-ago period.  Excluding retail fuel operations, LIFO expense, the southern California impairment charges and the effect of Hurricane Ike in 2008, operating margin would have declined 34 basis points compared to the same period last year.
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Guidance
 
Kroger said several factors influenced its performance during the quarter, including persistent
deflation, increased competitive activity and the cautious spending behavior of customers.
  The Company expects these factors to continue to affect its business for the remainder of the year.  As a result, Kroger now expects full-year identical supermarket sales growth of 2.0% to 2.5%, without fuel, for fiscal 2009.
 
Kroger also said it now expects full-year fiscal 2009 earnings of $1.60 to $1.70 per diluted share.  This guidance excludes the southern California impairment charges recorded in the third quarter.
 
"While these revised forecasts are well below what we had expected to deliver for the year, we believe they appropriately reflect the challenges of the current operating environment.  Kroger's continued growth in tonnage and loyal households and our competitive advantages position Kroger and our shareholders to benefit once operating conditions begin to normalize," Mr. Dillon said.
 
Looking ahead to fiscal 2010, Kroger anticipates current operating conditions will extend at least through the first half of the year.  Deflation is expected to moderate throughout the year, and Kroger will be cycling many of the price investments put in place during the first half of
2009.  The Company believes that the combination of these factors will produce identical sales growth, excluding fuel, and earnings per share growth, both above forecasted 2009 full-year results, excluding the southern California impairment charges.
 
Kroger, the nation's largest traditional grocery retailer, employs more than 326,000 associates who serve customers in 2,469 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, City Market, Dillons, Jay C, Food 4 Less, Fred Meyer, Fry's, King Soopers, QFC, Ralphs and Smith's.  The Company also operates 773 convenience stores, 392 fine jewelry stores, 850 supermarket fuel centers and 40 food processing plants in the U.S.  Kroger, headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, focuses its charitable efforts on supporting hunger relief, health and wellness initiatives, and local organizations in the communities it serves.  For more information about Kroger, please visit www.kroger.com.
 
Note:  Fuel sales have historically had a low FIFO gross margin rate and OG&A rate as compared to corresponding rates on non-fuel sales.  As a result, Kroger discloses such rates, both including and excluding the effect of retail fuel operations.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company.  These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it.  Such statements are indicated by words such as "assumes," "guidance," "believe," "anticipates," "will," "expected," and "expects."  Increased competition, weather, economic conditions, interest rates, unexpected changes in product costs, goodwill impairment, the extent to which our customers exercise caution in their purchasing behavior in response to economic conditions, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel, and labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per share, and earnings per share growth.  Earnings per share and earnings per share growth also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and volatility in the Company's fuel margins.  The extent to which the adjustments we are making to our strategy creates value for our shareholders will depend primarily on the reaction of our customers and our competitors to these adjustments, as well as operating conditions, including persistent deflation, increased competitive activity, and cautious spending behavior of our customers.  Our estimate of product cost inflation or deflation could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control.  Our capital expenditures could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; our logistics and technology or store projects are
not completed on budget or in the time frame expected; or if current operating conditions fail to improve or worsen.  Although we believe that deflation will moderate in 2010, it could fail to do so, or could increase and could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings, capital expenditures, and debt coverages.  Our ability to continue to improve our debt coverages could be affected by unanticipated increases in net total debt, our inability to generate free cash flow at the levels anticipated, and our failure to generate expected earnings.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.  We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein.  Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live online at 10 a.m. (ET) today at and .  An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through December 18, 2009.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Note: The Company defines FIFO gross margin, as described in the earnings release, as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the Last-In First-Out (LIFO) charge. This measure is included to reflect trends in current cost of product.
 
Note: The Company defines selling gross margin, as described in the earnings release related to the Company's supermarkets, as gross margin before incurring expenses directly related to distributing and merchandising the products on its store shelves. These expenses include advertising, warehousing, transportation, and shrink. Selling gross margin is a measure of how competitively the Company is pricing the products it sells.
 
(a)
         
Merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses exclude depreciation and amortization expense and rent expense which are included in separate expense lines.
 
(b)
        
LIFO charges of $9.9 and $68.8 were recorded in the third quarter of 2009 and 2008, respectively. For the year-to-date period, LIFO charges of $47.7 and $155.0 were recorded for 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
(c)
         
In the first quarter of 2009, the Company adopted the amended standards for noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. As a result, for those entities the Company consolidates but that are not wholly-owned, Net Earnings (Loss) Including Noncontrolling Interests includes the entire amount of net earnings (loss) from those entities. The portion of those entities' earnings (loss) not attributable to The Kroger Co. is then removed from Net Earnings (Loss) Including Noncontrolling Interests in order to determine Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to The Kroger Co. The tenets of this new accounting pronouncement have
been retroactively applied to all periods presented, which changed income statement line amounts, but did not change Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to The Kroger Co. (Dollar amounts for prior periods previously presented as Net Earnings, which are now presented as Net Earnings (Loss) Attributable to The Kroger Co., have not changed as a result of the amended standards for noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements.)
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance.  Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
 
 
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity.  Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity, and a primary component of measuring compliance with the financial covenants under the Company's credit facility.  Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the third quarter of 2009 to the balance in the third quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings (loss) attributable to The Kroger Co. or any other GAAP measure of performance.  These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes of the Company's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP.  Due to the nature of these items, as further described below in the footnotes, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with the Company's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected the Company's financial results during the periods presented.  The items include charges that were recorded as components of asset impairment charge and goodwill impairment charge.
 
 
 


