FILE:KR/KR-8K-20090915085914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
 
 
Labor
:
 
We have negotiations this year covering store associates in Arizona, Atlanta, Dallas, Denver and Portland.  Negotiations this year will be challenging as we must have competitive cost structures in each market while meeting our associates' needs for good wages and affordable health care, and we must address the underfunding of Taft-Hartley pension plans.
 
Our ability to achieve sales and earnings per share goals may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; weather conditions; stock repurchases; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; unexpected changes in product costs; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel. In addition, any delays in opening new stores, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales could be adversely affected by increased competition and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products. Our guidance for identical supermarket sales growth excluding fuel assumes product costs for the remainder of fiscal 2009 are consistent with or slightly lower than they were in the second half of fiscal 2008. Our guidance for LIFO is based on our forecast of 1% to 2% inflation for the year, which inflation forecast is based on cost changes for products in our inventory. Our estimate of product cost changes could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control.
Our non-fuel operating margin guidance could change if we are unable to pass on any cost increases, if our strategies fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated, or if changes in the cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differ from our expectations.  Our LIFO charge and the timing of our recognition of LIFO expense will be affected by changes in product costs during the year.  Our fuel margins could fail to normalize at 11
per gallon if the pattern of rapid changes in fuel costs continues. 
Our capital expenditures, and the number of projects that we
complete, could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs exceed those budgeted; or our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or in the time frame expected.  Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Should asset values in the multi-employer pension funds further deteriorate, or if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our contributions could increase more than we have anticipated. The actual amount of cash contributions to our 401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of employees who participate and the level of their participation.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, September 15, 2009  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported identical supermarket sales increased 2.6% without fuel in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 ended August 15, 2009, compared with the same period last year. 
 
Total sales, including fuel, in the second quarter were $17.7 billion compared with $18.1 billion for the same period last year.  Excluding fuel sales, total sales increased 3.5% over the prior year. 
 
Net earnings totaled $254.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, for the second quarter, compared with net earnings of $276.5 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, in the same period last year.
 
"We remain confident in our strategy.  The number of loyal households we serve and the number of items they are buying in our stores grew during the quarter.  As a result, we experienced exceptional tonnage growth," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's chairman and chief executive officer.  "Kroger's customer-focused strategy is generating and will continue to generate long-term value for our shareholders."
 
Details of Second Quarter Results
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin (Table 1) was 23.11% of sales, an increase of 59 basis points compared to the second quarter last year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin decreased 60 basis points.  Supermarket selling gross margin on non-fuel sales decreased 88 basis points.
 
T
he Company recorded a $14.7 million LIFO charge during the quarter, a decrease of $31.5 million from the prior year.  Excluding retail fuel sales, the LIFO charge decreased 21 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
 
Including Kroger's retail fuel operations, operating, general, and administrative (OG&A) costs were 17.41% of sales, an increase of 81 basis points compared to the second quarter last
 
 
year.  Excluding retail fuel operations, the OG&A rate decreased 7 basis points relative to the same period last year as a result of strong cost controls.
 
Financial Strategy
 
Capital investment, excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities, totaled $518.0
million for the second quarter, compared to $461.1 million for the same period last year.  During the quarter, the Company spent $83.6 million to purchase leased facilities.
 
Net total debt (Table 5) was $7.3 billion, a decrease of $198.5 million from a year ago.  On a rolling four-quarters basis, Kroger's net total debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.78 compared with 1.90 during the same period last year.  Kroger expects to continue to improve its debt coverages on a year-over-year basis.
 
During the second quarter, Kroger repurchased 2.8 million shares of stock at an average price of $21.58 per share for a total investment of $60.1 million.  At the end of the quarter, $424.9 million remained under the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in January 2008.
 
Fiscal 2009 Year-to-Date Results
 
For the first two quarters of fiscal 2009, total sales were $40.5 billion compared with $41.2 billion for the same period last year.  Excluding fuel sales, total sales increased 3.7% over the prior year.  For the same period, identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel, increased 2.9%.
 
Kroger's operating margin for the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 increased 12 basis points.  Excluding fuel and the benefit of a lower LIFO charge, the Company's operating margin decreased 17 basis points year-to-date.
 
Net earnings for the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 were $689.5 million or $1.05 per diluted share.  Net earnings for the same period last year were $662.5 million, or $1.00 per diluted share.
 
Fiscal Year 2009 Guidance
 
Kroger confirmed its expectations for full-year identical supermarket sales growth of 3% to 4%, without fuel, for fiscal 2009. 
This guidance assumes product costs for the remainder of
 
 
fiscal 2009 are consistent with or slightly lower than they were in the second half of fiscal 2008.
 
Kroger now expects full-year fiscal 2009 earnings of $1.90 to $2.00 per diluted share.  This reduced guidance reflects changes in customer behavior and other factors related to the economic environment that Kroger expects to influence its business for the remainder of the year.
 
Kroger remains committed to delivering solid near-term financial results while investing for the future growth of its business.  In addition, Kroger's dividend enhances total shareholder return by over 1% on annual basis.
 
"W
e remain on our plan.  Our approach and the investments we are making continue to strengthen Kroger today and position us well for future growth," Mr. Dillon said.  "Our customers are increasingly turning to Kroger's family of stores to meet even more of their everyday household needs."
 
Kroger, one of the nation's largest retail grocery chains, employs more than 326,000 associates who serve customers in 2,470 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, Fry's, King Soopers, Smith's, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  The Company also operates 768 convenience stores, 388 fine jewelry stores, 818 supermarket fuel centers and 40 food processing plants in the U.S.  Kroger, headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, focuses its charitable efforts on supporting hunger relief, health and wellness initiatives, and local organizations in the communities it serves.  For more information about Kroger, please visit www.kroger.com.
 
Note:  Fuel sales have historically had a low FIFO gross margin rate and OG&A rate as compared to corresponding rates on non-fuel sales.  As a result, Kroger discloses such rates, both including and excluding the effect of retail fuel operations.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the Company.  These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it.  Such statements are indicated by words such
 
 
as "confirmed," "expectations," "guidance," and "expects."  Increased competition, weather, economic conditions, interest rates, unexpected changes in product costs, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel, and labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per share, and earnings per share growth.  Earnings per share and earnings per share growth also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and volatility in the Company's fuel margins.  Our estimate of product cost inflation or deflation could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control.  Our ability to continue to improve our debt coverage could be affected by unanticipated increases in net total debt, our inability to generate free cash flow at the levels anticipated, and our failure to generate expected earnings.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.  We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein.  Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live online at 10 a.m. (ET) today at and .  An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) today through September 25, 2009.
www.kroger.com
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.  Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Note:  The Company defines FIFO gross margin, as described in the earnings release, as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the Last-In First-Out (LIFO) charge.  This measure is included to reflect trends in current cost of product.
 
Note:  The Company defines selling gross margin, as described in the earnings release related to the Company's supermarkets, as gross margin before incurring expenses directly related to distributing and merchandising the products on its store shelves.  These expenses include advertising, warehousing, transportation, and shrink.  Selling gross margin is a measure of how competitively the Company is pricing the products it sells.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance.  Identical and comparable supermarket sales are industry-specific measures and it is important to review them in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies in our industry may calculate identical or comparable sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of these measures.
 
 
 
Net total debt should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity.  Management believes net total debt is an important measure of liquidity, and a primary component of measuring compliance with the financial covenants under the Company's credit facility.  Net total debt should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the second quarter of 2009 to the balance in the second quarter of 2008.
 


