FILE:KR/KR-8K-20101108163858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
.
 
On November 8, 2010, The Kroger Co. (the "Company") executed a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") among the Company, the initial lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents.  The Company entered into the Credit Agreement to replace its existing credit facility.  The Credit Agreement provides for a $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. The Company has the ability to increase the size of the facility by up to an additional $500 million, subject to certain conditions.   Unless extended, the Credit Agreement will terminate and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on May 15, 2014.  Certain parties to the Credit Agreement, and affiliates of those parties, provide banking, investment banking and other financial services to the Company from time to time. A copy of the Credit Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
1.02 Termination of a Material Agreement.
 
On November 8, 2010, in connection with the entry into the Credit Agreement described in Item 1.01, the Company terminated and replaced its Five-Year Credit Agreement dated November 15, 2006, among the Company, the initial lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and as paying agent, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Bank of America, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Union Bank of California, N.A., and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, UFJ, Ltd., Chicago Branch, as co-syndication Agents.  The Five-Year Credit Agreement providing for a $2.5 billion unsecured credit facility, had a termination date of November 15, 2011, and was filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 22, 2010.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
                                                
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
.
 
Credit Agreement dated November 8, 2010, among The Kroger Co., the initial lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
THE KROGER CO., an Ohio corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") listed on Schedule I hereto, and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. (""), as an Issuing Bank (as defined below) and as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined) and the Issuing Banks, CITIBANK, N.A., as syndication agent, and THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC, U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agents for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, agree as follows:
Borrower
Initial Lenders
Bank of America
Administrative Agent
 
SECTION 1.01.  .
Certain Defined Terms
 
  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
 
"" means, for any period, with respect to any Acquired Entity, (a) the sum of (i) Acquired Net Income for such period, (ii) depreciation and amortization expense for such period, (iii) interest expense net of interest income for such period, (iv) Federal and state income taxes for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP, (v) extraordinary losses that have been included in the calculation of Acquired Net Income for such period and (vi) LIFO charges included in the calculation of Acquired Net Income for such period (b) the sum of (i) extraordinary gains that have been included in the calculation of Acquired Net Income for such period and (ii) LIFO credits included in the calculation of Acquired Net Income for such period.
Acquired EBITDA
minus
 
"" means any Person in the Borrower's line of business or the assets of any Person in the Borrower's line of business to be invested in or acquired.
Acquired Entity
 
"" means, with respect to any Acquired Entity, any fiscal quarter of such Acquired Entity.
Acquired Entity Fiscal Quarter
 
"" means, for any period, with respect to any Acquired Entity, the net income of such Acquired Entity for such period before the payment of dividends on all capital stock, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Acquired Net Income
 
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on Schedule 8.02, or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
 
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in the form of Exhibit D or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance, drawings under Letters of Credit or a Competitive Bid Advance.
Advance
 
"" means, with respect to any designated Person, any other Person that has a relationship with the designated Person whereby either of such Persons directly or indirectly controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the other of such Persons, or holds or beneficially owns 10% or more of
Affiliate
 
the equity interest in the other Person or 10% or more of any class of voting securities of the other Person.  The term "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power, whether or not exercised, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of any Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance, such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance and, in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance, the office of such Lender specified in a notice of such Lender to the Administrative Agent as such Lender's Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
 
"" means, on any date (a) in respect of Base Rate Advances, a percentage per annum equal to the rate described in clause (b) minus 1.00% per annum, but not less than 0.00% and (b) with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, Standby Letters of Credit and Documentary Letters of Credit, the Credit Default Swap Spread, but not less than the CDS Floor, nor more than the CDS Cap, in each case as determined by reference to the Borrower's Performance Level in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
 
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith IncorporatedCitigroup Global Markets Inc.RBS Securities Inc.U.S. Bank National Associationand Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Arrangers
,
,
,
 
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee, and to the extent required by Section 8.06, accepted by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto or such other form as shall be approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(c).
Assuming Lender
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(c).
Assumption Agreement
 
"" of any Letter of Credit means, at any time, the maximum amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit at such time (assuming compliance at such time with all conditions to drawing); , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Letter of Credit Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
Available Amount
provided
however
 
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate," and (c) the one-month Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00%.  The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for
Base Rate
pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.  Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
 
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a).
Base Rate Advance
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(h).
Borrower Materials
 
"" means a Revolving Credit Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing.
Borrowing
 
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to any lessee, the obligations under any lease of property that, in accordance with GAAP, should be capitalized on such lessee's balance sheet.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
"" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Banks (as applicable) and the Lenders, as collateral for Letter of Credit Obligations or obligations of Lenders to fund participations in respect of Letters of Credit, cash or deposit account balances or, if the Issuing Bank benefiting from such collateral shall agree in its sole discretion, other credit support, in each case pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to (a) the Administrative Agent and (b) the applicable issuing Bank (as applicable). "Cash Collateral" shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing and shall include the proceeds of such cash collateral and other credit support.
Cash Collateralize
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.14.
CDS Data
 
"" means, (a) with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advance, the date that is two Business Days prior to the first day of the Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advance, and, for such Eurodollar Rate Advances with an Interest Period longer than three months, at the end of each successive three-month period after the first day of such Interest Period, and (b) with respect to Base Rate Advances and any Letters of Credit, on the Closing Date and the last Business Day of each calendar quarter, commencing with the calendar quarter in which the Closing Date occurs.
CDS Spread Determination Date
 
"" means any one or more of the following events:
Change of Control
 
(a)           the acquisition, by contract or otherwise, by any Person or group (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations pertaining thereto), other than the trusts for the employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) maintained by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is an ERISA Affiliate, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3, or any regulation or ruling promulgated to replace or supplement Rule 13d-3, of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Borrower representing 20% or more of the voting power of all securities of the Borrower, or
Exchange Act
 
(b)           during any period of up to 24 consecutive months, commencing before or after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such period were directors of the Borrower (together with any new directors whose election by the Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Borrower was approved by a vote of at least 75% of the directors then in office who either were directors at the beginning of such period or
whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) shall cease for any reason to constitute at least 75% of the Board of Directors of the Borrower.
 
"" means as to any Lender (a) the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto as such Lender's "Commitment", (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Acceptance, the amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 8.06(d), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.19.
Commitment
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Commitment Date
 
""  means, on any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Borrower's Performance Level in effect on such date as set forth below:
Commitment Fee Percentage
 
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04.
Commitment Fees
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Commitment Increase
 
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing resulting from the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.01(b).
Competitive Bid Advance
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Competitive Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances as part of such borrowing has been accepted by the Borrower under the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.01(b).
Competitive Bid Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
Consenting Lender
 
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP, including principles of consolidation, consistent with those applied in the preparation of the Consolidated financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e).
Consolidated
 
"" means, for any period, interest expense net of interest income, whether paid or accrued (including the interest component of Capital Lease Obligations) on all Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis for such period, including (a) commissions and other fees and charges payable in connection with Letters of Credit and other letters of credit, (b) net payments payable in connection with all Interest Rate Agreements, (c) interest capitalized during construction and (d) cash dividends paid in respect of any preferred stock issued by the Borrower, but , , the sum of (i) interest expense not payable in cash, (ii) amortization of discount and deferred debt expense and (iii) gains and losses due to the extinguishment of Debt, all as determined in conformity with GAAP.
Consolidated Cash Interest Expense
excluding
however
 
"" means, for any period, on a Consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (a) the sum of (i) Consolidated Net Income for such period, (ii) depreciation and amortization
Consolidated EBITDA
expense for such period, (iii) interest expense net of interest income for such period, (iv) Federal and state income taxes for such period as determined in accordance with GAAP, (v) extraordinary losses (and any unusual losses in excess of $1,000,000 arising in or outside of the ordinary course of business not included in extraordinary losses (determined in accordance with GAAP) that have been included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income) for such period and (vi) LIFO charges that have been included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income for such period (b) the sum of (i) extraordinary gains (and any unusual gains in excess of $1,000,000 arising in or outside of the ordinary course of business not included in extraordinary gains (determined in accordance with GAAP) that have been included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income) for such period and (ii) LIFO credits that have been included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income for such period.
minus
 
"" means, for any period, the net income of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, before the payment of dividends on all capital stock, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"" means, to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the aggregate amounts of assets (less depreciation and valuation reserves and other reserves and items deductible from gross book value of specific asset accounts under generally accepted accounting principles) which under generally accepted accounting principles would be included on a balance sheet after deducting therefrom (a) all liability items except deferred income taxes, commercial paper, short-term bank Debt, Funded Indebtedness (as defined in the Indenture), other long term liabilities and shareholders' equity and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, which in each case would be so included on such balance sheet.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means, for any period, the aggregate rental expense (including any contingent or percentage rental expense) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis for such period (excluding real estate taxes and common area maintenance charges) in respect of all rent obligations under all operating leases for real or personal property any rental income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis for such period, all as determined in conformity with GAAP.
Consolidated Rental Expense
minus
 
"" means, to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the aggregate amounts of assets (less depreciation and valuation reserves and other reserves and items deductible from gross book value of specific asset accounts under generally accepted accounting principles) which under generally accepted accounting principles would be included on a balance sheet after deducting therefrom all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles, which would be so included on such balance sheet.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
 
"" means, for any period, interest expense net of interest income, whether paid or accrued (including the interest component of Capital Lease Obligations) on all Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis for such period, including (a) commissions and other fees and charges payable in connection with Letters of Credit and other letters of credit, (b) net payments payable in connection with all Interest Rate Agreements and (c) cash dividends paid in respect of any preferred stock issued by the Borrower, but , , (i) amortization of deferred debt expense (ii) interest capitalized during construction and (iii) gains and losses due to the extinguishment of Debt, all as determined in conformity with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Interest Expense
excluding
however
 
"", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.02(b), 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 
"" means, for any CDS Spread Determination Date, the average of the three (3) year credit default swap spread of the Borrower's senior unsecured obligations as provided by the
Credit Default Swap Spread
Reference Pricing Agent to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower for the 30 Business Days immediately preceding the CDS Spread Determination Date subject at all times to a minimum rateequal to the CDS Floor and a maximum rate equal to the CDS Cap (as such terms are defined in the definition of "Applicable Margin"); that, if such Credit Default Swap Spread is not delivered by the Reference Pricing Agent to the Administrative Agent by 11:00 a.m. on the relevant CDS Spread Determination Date, then the Credit Default Swap Spread applicable to such CDS Spread Determination Date shall be the rate that is the mid-point between the CDS Floor and the CDS Cap in effect on such Date.  If the Administrative Agent shall reasonably determine that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Credit Default Swap Spread as of any CDS Spread Determination Date, then the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith for a period of up to thirty days after the Credit Default Swap Spread becomes unavailable (such thirty-day period, the "") to agree on an alternative method for establishing the Applicable Margin.  The Applicable Margin at any CDS Spread Determination Date thereof which falls during the Negotiation Period shall be based upon the then most recently available quote of the Credit Default Swap Spread (subject in any event to the maximum rate and the minimum rate as set forth above).  If no such alternative method is agreed upon during the Negotiation Period, the Applicable Margin at any CDS Spread Determination Date subsequent to the end of the Negotiation Period shall be a rate per annum equal to the rate that is the mid-point between the CDS Floor and the CDS Cap in effect from time to time.
provided
Negotiation Period
 
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services (including all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in connection with the Letters of Credit, letter of credit facilities, acceptance facilities or other similar facilities and in connection with any agreement to purchase, redeem, exchange into debt securities, convert into debt securities or otherwise acquire for value (i) any capital stock of such Person or (ii) any warrants, rights or options to acquire such capital stock, now or hereafter outstanding), (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or other similar instruments, (c) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (d) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (e) all Debt referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance upon or in property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt, (f) all Guaranteed Debt of such Person and (g) any preferred stock of such Person that is classified as a liability on such Person's Consolidated balance sheet.
Debt
 
"" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.07(b).
Default Rate
 
"" means, subject to Section 2.21(b), any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder,  including in respect of its Advances or participations in respect of Letters of Credit, within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder,(b) has notified the Borrower or the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any debtor relief law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; provided that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting
Defaulting Lender
Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a governmental authority.
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(b)
Disclosed Litigation
 
"" means any Letter of Credit that is issued under the Letter of Credit Sublimit in support of trade obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business and that includes, as a condition to drawing thereunder, the presentation to the Issuing Bank of negotiable bills of lading, invoices and related documents sufficient, in the judgment of the Issuing Bank, to create a valid and perfected security interest in the goods covered thereby.
Documentary Letter of Credit
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time specify in writing to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
 
"" means (i) a Lender; (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender; (iii) an Approved Fund and (iv) any other Person approved by the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank that has a Letter of Credit outstanding and, so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld; , , that no Defaulting Lender, and neither the Borrower nor any Affiliate of the Borrower, shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
however
 
"" means all current and future Federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules or regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments or injunctions issued, promulgated, approved or entered thereunder or other requirements of Governmental Authorities or the common law, relating to health, safety, or pollution or protection of the environment, including laws relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances, or wastes into the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, generation, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals, or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances, or wastes, or underground storage tanks and emissions therefrom.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or any successor statute, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ERISA
 
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time specify in writing to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
 
"" means:
Eurodollar Rate
 
(a)           for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Advance, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as reasonably may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for U.S. dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term
BBA LIBOR
equivalent to such Interest Period or, (ii) if such rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in U.S. dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Advance being made, continued or converted and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; and
 
(b)           for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Advance on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time determined two London Banking Days prior to such date for U.S. dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in U.S. dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Advance being made or maintained and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
 
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(b).
Eurodollar Rate Advance
 
"" means the reserve percentage under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Rate Advances is determined).
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
 
""  has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(i).
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(c)(ii).
Existing Lenders
 
"" means each standby Letter of Credit that (a) was issued for the account of the Borrower by one of the issuing banks under the Existing Credit Agreement that is also an Issuing Bank under this Agreement, (b) is outstanding on the Closing Date and (c) is listed on Schedule 2.01(c).
Existing Letters of Credit
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
Extension Date
 
"" means May 15, 2012, or November 15, 2013, as the case may be.
Extension Effective Date
 
"" means, at any time, without duplication, the sum of (a) the amount of Advances outstanding at such time and (b) the aggregate Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit.
Facility Usage
 
"" means Sections 1471 though 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as in effect on the date hereof.
FATCA
 
"" means a fluctuating rate per annum equal for each day to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System
Federal Funds Rate
arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
 
"" means, with respect to any corporation, the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of such corporation.
Financial Officer
 
"" means (a) with respect to the first Fiscal Quarter of any Fiscal Year, the first 16 calendar weeks of such Fiscal Year, (b) with respect to the second Fiscal Quarter of such Fiscal Year, the next successive period of 12 calendar weeks in such Fiscal Year, (c) with respect to the third Fiscal Quarter of any Fiscal Year, the next successive period of 12 calendar weeks in such Fiscal Year and (d) with respect to the last Fiscal Quarter of any Fiscal Year, the period of time after the first three Fiscal Quarters of such Fiscal Year through the last day of such Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Quarter
 
"" means a year of 364 or 371 days, as the case may be, ending on the Saturday closest to the 31st day of January in any calendar year, and such Fiscal Year, when referred to from time to time herein by reference to a calendar year shall be the Fiscal Year that includes February 28th of such calendar year.
Fiscal Year
 
"" means Fitch, Inc.
Fitch
 
"" means the ratio (determined as of the last day of each Fiscal Quarter for the Rolling Period ending on such day) of (a) the sum of (i) Consolidated EBITDA for such Rolling Period and (ii) Consolidated Rental Expense for such Rolling Period to (b) the sum of (i) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for such Rolling Period and (ii) Consolidated Rental Expense for such Rolling Period.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
"" means, for the period for each Fixed Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, the fixed interest rate per annum determined for such Advance, as provided in Section 2.01(b).
Fixed Rate
 
"" means a Competitive Bid Advance that bears interest at a fixed rate per annum determined as provided in Section 2.01(b).
Fixed Rate Advance
 
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by the Lenders and remain outstanding on such date.  For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
Fronted L/C Obligations
plus
 
"" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, with respect to any Issuing Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Ratable Share of the outstanding Fronted L/C Obligations other than Fronted L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
"" means any Federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, authority, instrumentality or regulatory body.
Governmental Authority
 
"" of any Person means all Debt referred to in clause (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of the definition of the term "Debt" in this Section guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (a) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (b) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (c) to supply funds to, or in any other manner invest in, the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (d) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, but excluding leases at a rental at least as favorable to the Borrower as could be obtained in an arm's-length transaction with a party that is not an Affiliate.
Guaranteed Debt
 
"" means any toxic substance, hazardous waste, hazardous constituents, hazardous materials, asbestos or asbestos containing material, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum, including crude oil and any fractions thereof, or other wastes, chemicals, substances or materials regulated by any Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(a).
Increase Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Increasing Lender
 
"" means the indenture dated as of June 25, 1999 between the Borrower and U.S. Bank National Association, as supplemented by the Twenty-Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 13, 2010.
Indenture
 
"" means the information memorandum dated October 2010 used by the Administrative Agent in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
 
"" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurodollar Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below.  The duration of each such Interest Period shall be seven days, one, two, three or six months (or, if available from all the Lenders, nine months), as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
 
(i)            the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the latest Termination Date then in effect;
 
(ii)           Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
 
(iii)          whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
 
(iv)          whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
 
"" means any forward contract, forward option, futures contract, futures option, interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate floor agreement or other similar agreement or arrangement entered into by the Borrower.
Interest Rate Agreement
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
 
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance of the Letter of Credit).
ISP
 
"" with respect to any Letter of Credit means the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit.
Issuance
 
"" means any Lender so long as such Lender expressly agrees to perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Issuing Bank and notifies the Administrative Agent of its Applicable Lending Office (which information shall be recorded by the Administrative Agent in the Register).
Issuing Bank
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Ratable Share.
L/C Advance
 
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Revolving Credit Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
 
"" means the Initial Lenders, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.17 or Section 2.19 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.06.
Lenders
 
"" means any Standby Letter of Credit and any Documentary Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Letter of Credit Agreement
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02(b).
Letter of Credit Collateral
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02(a).
Letter of Credit Collateral Account
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18.
Letter of Credit Documents
 
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the maximum aggregate amount then available to be drawn under the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time (the determination of such maximum amount to assume the occurrence of, and compliance with, all conditions for drawing referred to therein) (b) the aggregate amount of the Borrower's obligations then outstanding under this Agreement in respect of the Letters of Credit, including all Advances resulting from drawings under Letters of Credit and all fees and expenses in respect of the Letters of Credit payable pursuant to Section 2.04.
Letter of Credit Obligations
plus
 
"" means, at any time, an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $500,000,000 and (b) the aggregate amount of the Commitments, as in effect from time to time.  The Letter of Credit Sublimit is a part of, and not in addition to, the Revolving Credit Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
 
"" means the ratio (determined as of the last day of each Fiscal Quarter for the Rolling Period ending on such day) of (i) Net Debt on such day to (ii) the sum of (A) Consolidated EBITDA for such Rolling Period and (B) from and after the making of any investment or acquisition, the Acquired EBITDA for such Rolling Period for any Acquired Entity so invested in or acquired (determined as of the last day of the Acquired Entity Fiscal Quarter ending during such Rolling Period).
Leverage Ratio
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.14.
Licensing Agreement
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, assignment for security (whether collateral or otherwise), hypothecation, encumbrance, lease, sublease, charge or security interest in or on such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
 
"" means the pretax charge against income determined by using the last-in-first-out method of valuing inventory.
LIFO
 
"" means this Agreement and Notes, if any, the Letter of Credit Documents and any agreement creating or perfecting rights in Cash Collateral pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.20 of this Agreement.
Loan Documents
 
"" means any day on which dealings in U.S. dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
London Banking Day
 
"" means Markit Group, Ltd.
Markit
 
"" means any material adverse change in the business, assets, operations, properties, prospects or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
 
"" means (a) a materially adverse effect on the business, assets, operations, properties, prospects or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is or will be a party or (c) material impairment of the rights of or benefits available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or the Lenders under any Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" of the Borrower means, at any time, any Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is a captive insurance company) having (a) assets with a value of not less than 5% of the total value of the assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (b) Consolidated EBITDA not less than 5% of the Consolidated EBITDA of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case as of the end of or for the most recently completed Fiscal Year of the Borrower.
Material Subsidiary
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
 
"" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate (other than one considered an ERISA Affiliate only pursuant to subsection (m) or (o) of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code) is making or accruing an obligation to
Multiemployer Plan
 
make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
 
"" means, on a Consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of any date, (a) Debt (b) the sum as of such date of (i) the aggregate outstanding amount of Debt represented by investments made by the Borrower in Debt of another Person in connection with a real estate transaction, so long as the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries is or becomes an anchor tenant of the real estate development with respect thereto and no more than two anchor tenants exist with respect to such real estate development or the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries has a contractual obligation to make lease or other payments to such Person as a result of the real estate transaction in which such Debt was issued and (ii) the aggregate amount of Permitted Investments in excess of $100,000,000.
Net Debt
minus
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.15.
Note
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Issuance
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA or any successor thereto.
PBGC
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the numerically lowest level set forth below as then in effect, as determined in accordance with the following provisions of this definition:
Performance Level
 
Level 1
                                                         
The Leverage Ratio is 1.25:1.00 or lower;
 
Level 2
                                                         
The Leverage Ratio is 1.75:1.00 or lower but greater than 1.25:1.00;
 
Level 3
                                                         
The Leverage Ratio is 2.25:1.00 or lower but greater than 1.75:1.00;
 
Level 4
                                                         
The Leverage Ratio is 2.75:1.00 or lower but greater than 2.25:1.00;
 
Level 5
                                                         
The Leverage Ratio is greater than 2.75:1.00;
 
provided
(a) any change in the Performance Level based on a change in the Leverage Ratio shall be effective for all purposes on and after the date of delivery to the Administrative Agent of a certificate of the Borrower with respect to the financial statements to be delivered, as applicable, pursuant to Section 5.01(h) for the most recently ended Fiscal Quarter and (b) notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of clause (a), no increase in the Performance Level shall be effective if any Default shall have occurred and be continuing (it being understood that Level 1 is the highest Level and Level 5 is the lowest Level).  Any change in the Performance Level shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the applicable Performance Level and shall apply to all Eurodollar Rate Advances made or continued on or after the commencement of the period (and to Base Rate Advances that are outstanding at any time during the period) commencing on the effective date of such change in the applicable Performance Level and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change in the applicable Performance Level.
 
"" means (a) cash, (b) readily marketable securities issued or guaranteed by the government of the United States of America or any agency thereof having a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding one year, (c) commercial paper rated at least A-1 by S&P, P-1 by Moody's or F-1
Permitted Investments
 
by Fitch, in each case having a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 270 days, (d) commercial paper rated at least A-2 by S&P, P-2 by Moody's or F-2 by Fitch, in each case having a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 30 days and not exceeding for any issuer thereof $50,000,000, and (e) certificates of deposit of or time deposits with any commercial bank, the long-term debt of which has been assigned a rating of at least BBB by S&P or A3 by Moody's and which is a Lender and is organized and existing or doing business under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
 
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government (domestic or foreign) or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
 
"" means any pension plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code that is maintained for current or former employees, or any beneficiary thereof, of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(h).
Platform
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(h).
Public Lender
 
"" of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of such amount a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Commitment at such time (or, if the Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, such Lender's Commitment as in effect immediately prior to such termination) and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of all Commitments at such time (or, if the Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, the aggregate amount of all Commitments as in effect immediately prior to such termination).
Ratable Share
times
 
"" means Markit in its capacity as reference pricing agent or any successor thereto.
Reference Pricing Agent
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.06(d).
Register
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" means any reportable event as defined in Section 4043(b) of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than a Plan maintained by an ERISA Affiliate that is considered an ERISA Affiliate only pursuant to subsection (m) or (o) of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code).
Reportable Event
 
"" means, at any time, Lenders holding at least 51% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Advances (other than Competitive Bid Advances) (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in Fronted L/C Obligations being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition) or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least 51% of the Commitments; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Advances held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
 
"" of any corporation means any executive officer or Financial Officer of such corporation and any other officer or similar official thereof responsible for the administration of the obligations of such corporation in respect of this Agreement.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Revolving Credit Advance).
Revolving Credit Advance
Type
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01(a).
Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
"" means, in respect of any Fiscal Quarter, such Fiscal Quarter and the three preceding Fiscal Quarters.
Rolling Period
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC.
S&P
 
"" means a Letter of Credit other than a Documentary Letter of Credit, including direct-pay Letters of Credit.
Standby Letter of Credit
 
"" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
"" means the earlier of (a) May 15, 2014, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.17, and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.17 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Termination Date
provided
however
 
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of Revolving Credit Advance, and refers to the distinction between Base Rate Advances and Eurodollar Rate Advances.
Type
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Commitment at such time (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender (in its capacity as a Lender) and outstanding at such time, (ii) such Lender's Ratable Share of (A) the aggregate Available Amount of all the Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (B) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances made by each Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c) that have not been ratably funded by such Lender and remain outstanding at such time.
Unused Commitment
minus
plus
 
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
 
SECTION 1.02.  .  In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from"  means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
 
SECTION 1.03.  .  All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) ("").
Accounting Terms
GAAP
 
SECTION 2.01.  .  (a)  .  Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Revolving Credit Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an amount not to exceed such Lender's Unused Commitment at such time.  Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be in an aggregate minimum amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and shall consist of Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments.  Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01(a), prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01(a).
The Advances and the Letters of Credit
The Revolving Credit Advances
 
(b)           .  (i)  Each Lender severally agrees that the Borrower may make Competitive Bid Borrowings under this Section 2.01(b) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the date occurring 30 days prior to the latest Termination Date then in effect in the manner set forth below; that, following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances plus the Available Amount of Letters of Credit then outstanding shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders.
The Competitive Bid Advances
provided
 
(A)          The Borrower, either directly or through the Administrative Agent, may request a Competitive Bid Borrowing or Competitive Bid Borrowings under this Section 2.01(b) by delivering to the Administrative Agent and some or all of the Lenders, by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing or by telecopier, a notice of a Competitive Bid Borrowing or Borrowings (a ""), in substantially the form of Exhibit A-2 or in such other form as the Administrative Agent and the Borrower may agree upon specifying the date and aggregate amount of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, the maturity date for repayment of each Competitive Bid Advance to be made as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing (which maturity date may not be earlier than the date that is 27 days after the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, may not be later than the date that is 270 days after the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing in the case of Fixed Rate Advances, and in any case may not be later than the latest Termination Date then in effect), whether the Lenders should offer to make Fixed Rate Advances or Eurodollar Rate Advances, the interest payment date or dates relating thereto and any other terms to be applicable to such Competitive Bid Borrowing, not later than (1) 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the same Business Day as any proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Fixed Rate Advances and (2) 12:00 noon (New York City time) at least three Business Days, or, if through the Administrative Agent, 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) at least four Business Days prior to the date of a proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances.
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
 
(B)           Each Lender so notified may, if, in its sole discretion, it elects to do so, irrevocably offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances (which Competitive Bid Advances may, subject to the provisos to the first sentence to this Section 2.01(b), have a principal amount exceeding such Lender's Commitment) to the Borrower as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing at a Fixed Rate or Fixed Rates or a margin or margins relative to the Eurodollar Rate, as requested by the Borrower.  Each Lender electing to make such an offer shall do so by notifying the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as shall be specified in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, before such time and date as is specified in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing in paragraph (A) above, of the minimum amount and maximum amount of each Competitive Bid Advance that such Lender would be willing to make as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing (which amount may exceed such Lender's Commitment), the Fixed Rate or Rates or margin or margins relative to the Eurodollar Rate, as requested by the Borrower, that such Lender would be willing to accept for such Competitive Bid Advance and such Lender's Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance, that, if the Administrative Agent in its capacity as a Lender shall, in its sole discretion, elect to make any such offer, it shall notify the Borrower of such offer before 15 minutes prior to the Borrower's deadline specified in paragraph (A) above on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Administrative Agent
provided
 
by the other Lenders.  If any Lender shall elect not to make such an offer, such Lender shall so notify the Administrative Agent, before such time as is specified in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, by the other Lenders, and such Lender shall not be obligated to, and shall not, make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, that the failure by any Lender to give such notice shall not cause such Lender to be obligated to make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing.
provided
 
(C)           The Borrower (either directly or through the Administrative Agent) shall, in turn, before such time and date as is specified in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing, either
 
(1)           cancel such Competitive Bid Borrowing by giving the Lenders who received notice pursuant to paragraph (A) above notice to that effect, or
 
(2)           accept one or more of the offers (or portions of such offers) made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (B) above, in its sole discretion, by giving notice to the applicable Lender or Lenders of the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance to be made by each Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, with simultaneous notice thereof to the Administrative Agent, and reject any remaining offers made by Lenders pursuant to paragraph (B) above by giving them notice to that effect.
 
(D)          If the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that such Competitive Bid Borrowing is canceled pursuant to paragraph (C)(1) above, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not be made.
 
(E)           If the Borrower accepts one or more of the offers (or portions of such offers) made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (C)(2) above, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall in turn promptly notify each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, of the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing.
 
(ii)           Each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall, before 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing specified in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing relating thereto, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Administrative Agent in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Competitive Bid Borrowing.  Upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III and after receipt by the Administrative Agent of such funds, the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower.  Promptly after each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Administrative Agent will notify each Lender of the amount and tenor of the Competitive Bid Borrowing.
 
(iii)          Each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be in an aggregate principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  Following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Borrower shall be in compliance with the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of subsection (i) above.
 
(iv)          Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this Section 2.01(b), the Borrower may from time to time borrow under this Section 2.01(b), repay or prepay pursuant to subsection (v) below, and reborrow under this Section 2.01(b).
 
(v)           The Borrower shall repay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender that has made, or holds the right to repayment of, a Competitive Bid Advance on the maturity date of each Competitive Bid Advance (such maturity date being that specified by the Borrower for repayment of such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (i)(A) above) the then-unpaid principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance.  The Borrower shall not have any right to prepay any principal amount of any Competitive Bid Advance unless,
 
and then only on the terms, specified by the Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (i)(A) above.
 
(vi)          The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance from and including the date of such Competitive Bid Advance to but excluding the date the principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance is repaid in full, at the rate of interest for such Competitive Bid Advance (including any rate specified for past due amounts) specified by the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered pursuant to subsection (i)(B) above, payable on the interest payment date or dates specified by the Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (i)(A) above.
 
(c)           .  (i)  Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, the Borrower may request any Issuing Bank to issue, and any such Issuing Bank may in its discretion and in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth herein issue, letters of credit (each, a "") for the account of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 30 days before the latest Termination Date in an aggregate Available Amount (i) for all Letters of Credit not to exceed at any time the Letter of Credit Sublimit at such time and (ii) for each such Letter of Credit not to exceed an amount equal to the Unused Commitments of the Lenders at such time.  Each Letter of Credit (other than Existing Letters of Credit) shall be for a period of no more than one year or shall be renewable or terminable (upon no more than 180 days' notice) annually and, in each case, shall contain such terms and conditions as may be acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank in their sole discretion, but in any event shall expire no later than 30 days prior to the latest Termination Date in effect at the date of issuance thereof, that Letters of Credit having an aggregate Available Amount of not more than $25,000,000 may have an expiration date of later than one year from the date of issuance, but in any event shall expire no later than 30 days prior to the latest Termination Date; that no Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date later than 30 days prior to the Termination Date of Lenders having Commitments in an amount equal to or exceeding the available undrawn amount of all Letters of Credit after giving effect to the issuance of such Letter of Credit.  Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the Letter of Credit so requested to be issued or amended complies with the conditions set forth in the preceding sentence.  The Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, renew such Letter of Credit, and such renewal shall in any case be subject to the conditions specified herein.  Within the limits referred to above, the Borrower may from time to time request the issuance of Letters of Credit under this Section 2.01(c).
The Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit
provided
provided
further
 
(ii)           Each letter of credit listed on Schedule 2.01(c) shall be deemed to constitute a Letter of Credit issued hereunder, and each Lender that is an issuer of such a Letter of Credit shall, for purposes of Section 2.03, be deemed to be an Issuing Bank for each such letter of credit, than any renewal or replacement of any such letter of credit shall be issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.  Effective as of the Closing Date, the lenders under the Existing Credit Agreement (the "") will be deemed to have sold and transferred an undivided interest and participation, pro rata to such Existing Lender's "Commitment" under the Existing Credit Agreement, in respect of the Existing Letters of Credit and each Lender under this Agreement will be deemed to have purchased and received, without further action on the part of any party, an undivided interest and participation in such Existing Letters of Credit, equal to such Lender's Ratable Share.
provided
Existing Lenders
 
SECTION 2.02.  .  (a)  Each Revolving Credit Borrowing (other than a Borrowing resulting from a drawing under a Letter of Credit) shall be made on notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, or the Business Day of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier.  Each such notice of a Revolving Credit Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, and (iv) in the case
Making the Revolving Credit Advances
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, initial Interest Period for each such Revolving Credit Advance.  Each Lender shall, before 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's Office, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing.  After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02; , , that if, on the date the Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
provided
however
first
second
 
(b)           Anything in subsection (a) above or Section 2.09 to the contrary notwithstanding,
 
(i)            if the Eurodollar Rate cannot be determined for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with clause (a) of the definition of "Eurodollar Rate", (A) the Administrative Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, (B) unless the Borrower then notifies the Administrative Agent that it withdraws its Notice for an Advance, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and (C) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist,
 
(ii)           if, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Lenders required to make at least 51% of such Eurodollar Rate Advances notify the Administrative Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or funding their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) unless the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent of its election to repay such Advances on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist,
 
(iii)          if the Borrower shall select an Interest Period of nine months for any Eurodollar Rate Advances and any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately reflect the cost to such Lender of making or funding its Eurodollar Rate Advance for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) unless the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent of its election to repay such Advances on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, each such Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (B) the obligations of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances having an Interest Period of nine months shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and such Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and
 
(iv)          there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect.
 
(c)           Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower and, in respect of any Revolving Credit Borrowing comprised of or including Eurodollar Rate Advances specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender solely as a result of any failure by the Borrower to borrow on the date specified in the Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing for such
 
Borrowing, including any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Eurodollar Rate Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Eurodollar Rate Advance, solely as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.  Without prejudice to the survival of any other provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this paragraph shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
 
(d)           Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing (or in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing, prior to 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount.  If and to the extent such Lender shall not have so made available to the Administrative Agent on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, such Lender agrees, and the Borrower agrees, to pay or repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is paid or repaid to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the rate applicable to such Borrowing ( that such payment at the Federal Funds Rate with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advance shall not affect the status of such Advance as a Eurodollar Rate Advance).  If such Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent such amount, the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Credit Advance as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement from and including the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing.
provided
 
(e)           The failure of any Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of any Revolving Credit Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing.
 
SECTION 2.03.  .  (a)  .  (i)  Each Letter of Credit shall be issued upon notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the fifth Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Issuance of such Letter of Credit (or on such shorter notice as the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent may agree), by the Borrower to any Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall give the Administrative Agent prompt notice thereof.  Each such notice by the Borrower of Issuance of a Letter of Credit (a "") shall be by telecopier or telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-3, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such Issuance (which shall be a Business Day), (B) Available Amount of such Letter of Credit, (C) expiration date of such Letter of Credit and (D) name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit shall be issued pursuant to such application and agreement for letter of credit as such Issuing Bank and the Borrower shall agree for use in connection with such requested Letter of Credit (a "").  If the requested form of such Letter of Credit is acceptable to such Issuing Bank in its reasonable discretion (it being understood that any such form shall have only explicit documentary conditions to draw and shall not include discretionary conditions), such Issuing Bank will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of applicable Notice of Issuance from the Borrower and, if not, such Issuing Bank will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof.  Unless the applicable Issuing Bank has received written notice from any Lender or the Administrative Agent, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in Section 3.02 shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such Issuing Bank may, upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 3.02, make such Letter of Credit available to the Borrower at its office referred to in Section 8.02 or as otherwise agreed with the Borrower in connection with such Issuance.  In the event and to the extent that the provisions of any Letter of Credit Agreement shall conflict with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Issuance of and Drawings and Reimbursement Under Letters of Credit
Request for Issuance
Notice of Issuance
Letter of Credit Agreement
 
Each Issuing Bank shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and such Issuing Bank shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in Article VII with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such Issuing Bank in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Letter of Credit Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in Article VII included such Issuing Bank with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to such Issuing Bank.
 
(b)           .  By the Issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing or decreasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit.  The Borrower hereby agrees to each such participation.  In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, in accordance with Section 2.03(c), each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Ratable Share of each drawing made under a Letter of Credit funded by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date made, which amount will be advanced, and deemed to be a Base Rate Advance to the Borrower hereunder, regardless of the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.02.  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.  Each Lender further acknowledges and agrees that its participation in each Letter of Credit will be automatically adjusted to reflect such Lender's Ratable Share of the Available Amount of such Letter of Credit at each time such Lender's Commitment is amended pursuant to a Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.19, an assignment in accordance with Section 8.06 or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement.
Participations
 
(c)           .  (i) The payment by an Issuing Bank of a draft drawn under any Letter of Credit which is not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date made shall constitute for all purposes of this Agreement the making by any such Issuing Bank of an Advance, which shall be a Base Rate Advance, in the amount of such draft, without regard to minimum and multiples specified in Section 2.01(a) for the principal amount of Base Rate Advances, but subject to the conditions set forth in Section 3.02, and without regard to whether the making of such an Advance would exceed such Issuing Bank's Unused Commitment.  Each Issuing Bank shall give prompt notice of each drawing under any Letter of Credit issued by it to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.  Upon written demand by such Issuing Bank, with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Ratable Share of such outstanding Advance.  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to make Advances pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.  Promptly after receipt thereof, the Administrative Agent shall transfer such funds to such Issuing Bank.  Each Lender agrees to fund its Ratable Share of an outstanding Advance on (i) the Business Day on which demand therefor is made by such Issuing Bank, that notice of such demand is given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Business Day, or (ii) the first Business Day next succeeding such demand if notice of such demand is given after such time.  If and to the extent that any Lender shall not have so made the amount of such Advance available to the Administrative Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand by any such Issuing Bank until the date such amount is paid to the Administrative Agent, at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by such Issuing Bank in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by such Issuing Bank in connection with the foregoing, for the account of such Issuing Bank.  If such Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent such amount for the account of any such Issuing Bank on any Business Day, such amount so paid in respect of principal shall constitute an Advance made by such Lender on such Business Day for purposes of this Agreement, and the outstanding principal amount of the Advance made by such Issuing Bank shall be reduced by such amount on such
Drawing and Reimbursement
provided
 
Business Day.  A certificate of the applicable Issuing Bank submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this subsection (c) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
(ii)           With respect to any unreimbursed drawing under a Letter of Credit that is not fully refinanced by a Revolving Credit Borrowing of Base Rate Advances because the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable Issuing Bank an L/C Borrowing in the amount of such unreimbursed amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Base Rate (plus the Applicable Margin).  In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section 2.03(c) shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this Section 2.03.
 
(iii)          Until a Lender funds its Revolving Credit Advance or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Ratable Share of such amount shall be solely for the account of such Issuing Bank.
Section 2.03(c)
 
(iv)          At any time after the applicable Issuing Bank has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with Section 2.03(c)(i), if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of an Issuing Bank any payment in respect of the related unreimbursed amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Ratable Share thereof in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
 
(v)           If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(c)(i) is required to be returned because it its invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such Issuing Bank in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party in connection with any proceeding under any debtor relief law or otherwise, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank its Ratable Share thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect.  The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Advances and the termination of this Agreement.
 
(d)           .  Each Issuing Bank shall furnish (i) to the Administrative Agent (with a copy to the Borrower) on the first Business Day after the Issuance, expiration, drawing or change of Available Amount of any Letter of Credit, a report in the form of Exhibit E hereto or such other form as is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and (ii) to the Administrative Agent (with a copy to the Borrower) on the first Business Day of each month a written report summarizing Issuance and expiration dates of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank during the preceding month and drawings during such month under all Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit Reports
 
(e)           .  The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on the date specified in Section 2.03(c) shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on such date.
Failure to Make Advances
 
(f)            .  Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable Issuing Bank and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
 
(g)           .  Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit.  The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
 
inures to the benefit of the Borrower, and that the Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
 
SECTION 2.04.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Lender until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender a commitment fee (the "") with respect to such Lender's Unused Commitment, at a rate per annum equal to the Commitment Fee Percentage from time to time in effect on the amount of such Lender's Unused Commitment.  The Commitment Fees will commence to accrue on the date of execution of this Agreement and will be payable in arrears on (i) the Effective Date, (ii) on the third day of each January, April, July and October and (iii) on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender.
Fees
Commitment Fees
Commitment Fee
 
(b)           .  The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Agent's Fees
 
(c)           .  (i)  Upon the issuance, extension or renewal of each Letter of Credit by an Issuing Bank, the Borrower agrees to pay to such Issuing Bank a fee in an amount to be agreed upon between such Issuing Bank and the Borrower, payable on the date of such issuance (or on such other date as may be agreed upon by such Issuing Bank and the Borrower).
Letter of Credit Fees
 
(ii)           The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the ratable benefit of the Lenders (determined in accordance with the respective amounts of their Commitments), a letter of credit fee at the Applicable Margin on the maximum Available Amount of outstanding Letters of Credit issued pursuant to Section 2.01(c) for the account of the Borrower, in each case payable quarterly in arrears on the third day of each January, April, July and October after the date of issuance until the date each such Letter of Credit shall expire or terminate in accordance with its terms and on the date of such expiration or termination; , however, any Letter of Credit Fees otherwise payable for the account of a Defaulting Lender with respect to any Letter of Credit as to which such Defaulting Lender has not provided Cash Collateral satisfactory to the applicable Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section 2.04(c) shall be payable, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, to the other Lenders in accordance with the upward adjustments in their respective Ratable Shares allocable to such Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.21(a)(iv), with the balance of such fee, if any, payable to the applicable Issuing Bank for its own account.  If there is any change in the Applicable Margin during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Margin separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Margin was in effect.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit fees payable under this clause (ii) shall accrue at the Default Rate.
provided
 
(d)           .  (i)  The Borrower agrees to pay to each Issuing Bank, upon each transfer or amendment of a Letter of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower, the normal and customary transfer fee or amendment fee, as the case may be (or such other fee as the Borrower and such Issuing Bank may agree upon), charged by such Issuing Bank upon the transfer or amendment of letters of credit.
Transfer Fee; Amendment Fee
 
(e)           .  The Borrower agrees to pay to each Issuing Bank, on demand, sums equal to any and all reasonable charges such Issuing Bank may assess, and expenses that such Issuing Bank may pay or incur, relative to the issuance by such Issuing Bank of any Letter of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or to presentment to, or to a payment by, the Issuing Bank thereunder.
Letter of Credit Expenses
 
SECTION 2.05.  .  (a)  The Commitment of each Lender shall be automatically terminated on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender.
Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
 
(b)           The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, to terminate in whole, or, subject to Section 2.19, permanently reduce ratably in part (in a minimum principal amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof), the Unused Commitments).
 
(c)           The Letter of Credit Sublimit shall not be reduced until such time as the Commitments shall equal such Letter of Credit Sublimit, and thereafter shall reduce proportionately with any reduction in the amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.05.
 
SECTION 2.06.  .  The Borrower shall repay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to such Lender on such date.
Repayment of Revolving Credit Advances
 
SECTION 2.07.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Revolving Credit Advances
Scheduled Interest
 
(i)            .  During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus (y) the Applicable Margin, payable quarterly in arrears on the third day of each January, April, July and October and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted into a Eurodollar Rate Advance or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
 
(ii)           .  During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus (y) the Applicable Margin, payable on the last day of each Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of six months or nine months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Advances
 
(b)           .  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default under Section 6.01(a) or (e), the Administrative Agent shall, and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any other Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, require, the Borrower to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of this Section 2.07, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of this Section 2.07 and (ii) the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder or any other Loan Document that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) of this Section 2.07 (the ""), , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable whether or not previously required by the Administrative Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
Default Rate
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.08.  .  (a)  The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a).
Interest Rate Determination
 
(b)           If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Administrative Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
SECTION 2.09.  .  (a)  The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion, and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.02(c), 2.07, 2.08, 2.09(d) and 2.11(c), Convert all or any Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type; , , that (i) except as provided in Section 2.11(d), any Conversion of any Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such
Conversion of Revolving Credit Advances
provided
however
 
Eurodollar Rate Advances, (ii) the Borrower may not Convert any Base Rate Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances unless such Base Rate Advances are in an aggregate amount not less than $10,000,000 and (iii) no conversion of any Revolving Credit Advances shall result in more separate Interests periods than permitted under Section 2.02(b)(iv).  Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Type and aggregate amount of Advances to be Converted and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for such Advances.
 
(b)           Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower and, in respect of any notice of Conversion to Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender solely as a result of any failure to Convert on the date specified in such notice, including any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Eurodollar Rate Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Conversion when such Eurodollar Rate Advance, solely as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.  Without prejudice to the survival of any other provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this paragraph shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
 
(c)           On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurodollar Rate Advances having the same Interest Period shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $10,000,000, such Advances shall automatically Convert into Base Rate Advances.
 
(d)           Upon the occurrence of any Default and so long as such Default shall continue, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert any Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended.
 
SECTION 2.10.  .  (a)  .  The Borrower may, upon at least two Business Days' notice in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, and upon at least one Business Day's notice in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Administrative Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment pursuant to this Section 2.10 shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, such prepayment shall either be made on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advance or shall be made together with payment of all amounts required pursuant to Section 8.03(c).
Prepayments
Optional Prepayments
provided
however
 
(b)           .  (i)  The Borrower shall, on each Business Day, pay to the Administrative Agent for deposit in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account an amount sufficient to cause the aggregate amount on deposit in such Account to equal the amount by which the aggregate maximum Available Amount of Letters of Credit then outstanding exceeds the Letter of Credit Sublimit on such Business Day.
Mandatory Prepayments
 
(ii)           All prepayments by the Borrower under this subsection (b) shall be made together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid and shall be applied first against the Advances to be prepaid that are Base Rate Advances and thereafter against the Advances to be prepaid that are Eurodollar Rate Advances having Interest Periods ending as close as possible to the date of such prepayment.
 
SECTION 2.11.  .  (a)  If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change (including any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements included in the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage) in or change in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Advances, then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost.  A certificate as to the amount of
Increased Costs; Illegality
 
such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(b)           If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type or of the Letters of Credit (or similar contingent obligations), then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder or to the issuance or maintenance of the Letters of Credit.  A certificate as to such amounts, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(c)           If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Issuing Bank or any Lender of agreeing to issue or of issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or any participation therein, then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Issuing Bank or Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank or such Lender, as the case may be, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Issuing Bank or such Lender, as the case may be, for such increased cost.  A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Issuing Bank or such Lender, as the case may be, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
 
(d)           Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation shall make it unlawful, as reasonably determined by any Lender, or any central bank or other Governmental Authority shall assert that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, then, on notice thereof and demand therefor by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, (i) the obligation of such Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Advances and to Convert Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall terminate and (ii) the Borrower shall forthwith Convert all Eurodollar Rate Advances of such Lender then outstanding into Base Rate Advances in accordance with Section 2.09, except that such Conversion may occur, notwithstanding Section 2.09, other than on the last day of the respective Interest Periods for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, if the Borrower has paid all amounts payable under Section 8.03(c).
 
SECTION 2.12.  .  (a)  The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under the Notes, if any, without condition or deduction for counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff, not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's Office in same day funds.  The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest, Letter of Credit fees payable pursuant to Section 2.04(c)(ii) or Commitment Fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.04(b), 2.04(c)(i), 2.04(d), 2.11, 2.14, 2.17 or 8.03(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.17 or as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.19, and upon the Administrative Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender.  Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.06(d), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes, if
Payments and Computations
 
any, in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
 
(b)           The Borrower hereby authorizes (i) each Issuing Bank on behalf of each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent when due hereunder, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Issuing Bank any amount so due and (ii) each Lender, if and to the extent payment is not made when due hereunder, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due to such Lender prior to any sharing under Section 2.13.  Nothing contained in this subsection (b) shall impair the obligations of any Lender under Section 2.13, the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under Section 8.04 or any other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that the Administrative Agent or such Lender may have.
 
(c)           All computations of interest based on the Base Rate (including when determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate) shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate and fees shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or commitment fees are payable (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year).  Interest shall accrue on each Advance for the day on which the Advance is made, and shall not accrue on an Advance, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Advance or such portion is paid, that any Advance that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall bear interest for one day.  Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
 
(d)           Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes, if any, shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or fees, as the case may be; , , that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
 
(e)           Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender.  If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
 
SECTION 2.13.  .  If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Revolving Credit Advances made by it in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Revolving Credit Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Revolving Credit Advances made to the other Lenders as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , however, that (a) if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and each such other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to each such other Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such other Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered and (b) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
 
arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), (y) the application of Cash Collateral provided for in Section 2.20, or (z) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Revolving Credit Advances or subparticipations in Fronted L/C Obligations to any assignee or participant, other than an assignment to the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).  The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.13 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
SECTION 2.14.  .  (a)  Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under any Note shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.12, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all current or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto (including interest, additions to tax, and penalties thereon) imposed by the United States of America or any political subdivision thereof (or, in the event that the Borrower assigns any of its rights or obligations or any interest hereunder or under any Notes, by any foreign country and its political subdivisions in which the assignee is incorporated or is resident), , in the case of each Lender and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on or measured by its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which the Administrative Agent or such Lender (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on or measured by its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such nonexcluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as "").  If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
 
(b)           In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any current or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under any Note or from the execution, delivery or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
 
(c)           The Borrower will indemnify each Lender and the Administrative Agent for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) paid by such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including interest, expenses, additions to tax, and penalties) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted.  Payments under this indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.  However, in the case of any Taxes not required by law to be deducted by the Borrower from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, payment under this indemnification must be made by the Borrower only if such written demand has been made within 60 days from the date on which such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, makes payment of the Taxes to the relevant taxing authority.
 
(d)           Within 30 days after the reasonable request therefor by the Administrative Agent in connection with any payment of Taxes or Other Taxes, the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in, or determined pursuant to, Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of an official receipt from the jurisdiction to which payment is made evidencing payment thereof or, if unavailable, a certificate from the Borrower's treasurer or responsible officer that states that such payment has been made and that sets forth the date and amount of such payment.
 
(e)           Prior to or on the Effective Date in the case of each Lender that is a Lender on the Effective Date, and on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance or the Assumption Agreement, as the case may be, pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter if
 
reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, each Lender organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that is exempt from United States Federal withholding tax, or that is subject to such tax at a reduced rate under an applicable treaty, with respect to payments under this Agreement has provided or is herewith providing the Borrower or the Administrative Agent with an Internal Revenue Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI or other certificate or document required under United States law to establish entitlement to such exemption or reduced rate.  A determination of whether a Lender is exempt from United States Federal withholding tax or is subject to such tax at a reduced rate shall be within the reasonable judgment of the Lender.
 
(f)            If a payment made to a Lender hereunder would be subject to United States federal withholding tax if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law in the case of requirements imposed by FATCA and at such other time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to comply with its obligations, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.
 
(g)           Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in this Section 2.14 shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest hereunder.
 
SECTION 2.15.  .  (a)  Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.  The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Administrative Agent) to the effect that a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and such Lender (each a ""), payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount equal to the Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
Note
 
(b)           The Register maintained by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 8.06(d) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder, and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
 
(c)           Entries made in good faith by the Administrative Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of the Administrative Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
 
SECTION 2.16.  .  The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including liquidity support for commercial paper.
Use of Proceeds
 
SECTION 2.17.  .  (a)  At least 30 days but not more than 60 days prior to either or both of the first and second Extension Effective Dates, the Borrower, by written notice to the
Extension of Termination Date
 
Administrative Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, at least 20 days prior to such Extension Effective Date, notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension.  If any Lender shall fail to notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 20 days prior to the scheduled occurrence thereof at such time, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request.  The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower not later than 15 days prior to the pending Extension Effective Date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Borrower's request for an extension of the Termination Date.
 
(b)           If all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the next Extension Effective Date (the ""), be extended for one calendar year; that on each Extension Date, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, or shall occur as a consequence thereof and the giving of a request for extension shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such notice and on such Extension Date, as though made on and as of such dates.  If Lenders holding at least a majority in interest of the aggregate Commitments at such time consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a "").  To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.17 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.17 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person; that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14, 8.03 and 8.07, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date.  It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Termination Date.
Extension Date
provided
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
 
(c)           If Lenders holding at least a majority in interest of the aggregate Commitments at any time consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees (each such Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to assume a Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment as of the applicable Extension Date, and each Eligible Assignee that agrees to become a Lender hereunder pursuant to Section 2.19 being an "") to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $10,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
Assuming Lender
provided
however
provided
further
 
(i)            any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Revolving Credit Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender (B) any accrued but unpaid Commitment Fees and fees pursuant to Section 2.04(c)(ii) owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
plus
 
(ii)           all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
 
(iii)          with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 8.06(a) for such assignment shall have been paid;
 
provided
that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14, 8.03 and 8.07, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution.  At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent an assumption agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (an ""), duly executed by such Assuming Lender, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.17 shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender.  Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
further
Assumption Agreement
 
(d)           If Lenders holding a majority in interest of the aggregate Commitments (after giving effect to any assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.17) consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing as of such Extension Date, or shall occur as a consequence thereof, the Termination Date then in effect with respect to the Commitment of such Consenting Lenders and Assuming Lenders shall be extended for the additional one-year period described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended.  Promptly following each Extension Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
Termination Date
 
(e)           If at any Termination Date, the sum of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Advances plus the Available Amount of Letters of Credit outstanding exceed the Commitments of the Lenders having Commitments that extend to a date later than such Termination Date, the Borrower shall repay Advances and/or deposit funds into the Letter of Credit Collateral Account in an amount equal to such excess.
 
SECTION 2.18. 
Obligations
Absolute
.  The obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement in respect of any Letter of Credit, any Letter of Credit Agreement and under any other agreement or instrument relating to any Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Letter of Credit Agreement and such other agreement or instrument under all circumstances, including to the extent permitted by law, the following circumstances:
 
(a)           any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit, any Letter of Credit Agreement or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto (collectively, the "") or any Loan Document;
Letter of Credit Documents
 
(b)           any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the obligations of the Borrower in respect of any Letter of Credit or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the Letter of Credit Documents or any other Loan Document;
 
(c)           any exchange, release or nonperfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any guaranty, for all or any of the obligations of the Borrower in respect of any Letter of Credit;
 
(d)           the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of a Letter of Credit (or any Persons for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any of the Lenders, the Administrative Agent or any
 
other Person, whether in connection with any Loan Document, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or any unrelated transaction;
 
(e)           any draft, demand, certificate, statement or any other document presented under or in connection with any Letter of Credit or other Loan Document proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
 
(f)            payment in good faith by an Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; and
 
(g)           any other circumstance or happening whatsoever other than the payment in full of all obligations hereunder in respect of any Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating to any Letter of Credit, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower.
 
SECTION 2.19.  .  (a) The Borrower may, at any time but in any event not more than twice in any calendar year prior to the latest Termination Date, by notice to the Administrative Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitment be increased by an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the latest scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Administrative Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed $2,500,000,000 and (ii) on the date of any request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
 
(b)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments (the "").  Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment.  If the Lenders notify the Administrative Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.  No Lender shall have any obligation to participate in such a requested Commitment Increase, and the election of any Lender to Participate in such a requested Commitment Increase shall not obligate any other Lender to so participate.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
 
(c)           Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase.  If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Borrower may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be not less than $10,000,000.
provided
however
 
(d)           On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.19(b) shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.19(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Administrative Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
provided
however
 
(i)            (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto;
 
(ii)           an Assumption Agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower; and
 
(iii)          confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
 
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.19(d), the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date.
 
SECTION 2.20.  .  (a) .  Upon the request of the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank if, as of the date 30 days prior to the Termination Date, any Fronted L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, immediately Cash Collateralize the then outstanding amount of all Fronted L/C Obligations.  At any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, immediately upon the request of the Administrative Agent or the applicable Issuing Bank, if such Issuing Bank has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to cover all Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to Section 2.21(a)(iv) and any Cash Collateral provided by the Defaulting Lender) in respect of such Letter of Credit.
Cash Collateral
Certain Credit Support Events
 
(b)           .  All Cash Collateral (other than credit support not constituting funds subject to deposit) shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.  The Borrower, and to the extent provided by any Lender, such Lender, hereby grants to (and subjects to the control of) the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders, and agrees to maintain, a first priority security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein, and all other property so provided as collateral pursuant hereto, and in all proceeds of the foregoing, all as security for the obligations to which such Cash Collateral may be applied pursuant to Section 2.20(c).  If at any time the Administrative Agent determines that Cash Collateral is subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Administrative Agent as herein provided, or that the total amount of such Cash Collateral is less than the applicable Fronting Exposure and other obligations secured thereby, the Borrower or the relevant Defaulting Lender will, promptly upon demand by the Administrative Agent, pay or provide to the Administrative Agent additional Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to eliminate such deficiency.
Grant of Security Interest
 
(c)           .Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Cash Collateral provided under any of this Section 2.20 or Sections 2.03, 2.21 or 6.02 in respect of Letters of Credit shall be held and applied to the satisfaction of the specific Fronted L/C Obligations, obligations to fund participations therein (including, as to Cash Collateral provided by a Defaulting Lender, any interest accrued on such obligation) and other obligations for which the Cash Collateral was so provided, prior to any other application of such property as may be provided for herein.
Application
 
 
(d)           .  Cash Collateral (or the appropriate portion thereof) provided to reduce Fronting Exposure or other obligations shall be released promptly following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure or other obligations giving rise thereto (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender (or, as appropriate, its assignee following compliance with Section 8.07(b)) or (ii) the Administrative Agent's good faith determination that there exists excess Cash Collateral; , however, (x) that Cash Collateral furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower shall not be released during the continuance of a Default (and following application as provided in this Section 2.20 may be otherwise applied in accordance with
Release
provided
 
Section 6.02), and (y) the Person providing Cash Collateral and the applicable Issuing Bank may agree that Cash Collateral shall not be released but instead held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or other obligations.
 
SECTION 2.21.  .  (a) .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
The DefaultingLenders
Adjustments
 
(i)            .  That Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in Section 8.01.
Waivers and Amendments
 
(ii)           .  Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 8.04) under this Agreement, shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; , to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Issuing Banks hereunder; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by any Issuing Bank, to be held as Cash Collateral for future funding obligations of that Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Letter of Credit; , as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Advances under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or the Issuing Banks as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender or an Issuing Bank against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to that Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Advances or L/C Borrowings in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Advances or L/C Borrowings were made at a time when the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Advances of, and L/C Borrowings owed to, all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Advances of, or L/C Borrowings owed to, that Defaulting Lender.  Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this Section 2.21(a)(ii) shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
Reallocation of Payments
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
eighth
provided
 
(iii)          .  That Defaulting Lender (x) shall not be entitled to receive any commitment fee pursuant to Section 2.04(a) for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay any such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender) and (y) shall be limited in its right to receive Letter of Credit Fees as provided in Section 2.04(c)(ii).
Certain Fees
 
(iv)          .  During any period in which there is a Defaulting Lender, for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.03, the "Ratable Share" of each non-Defaulting Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Commitment of that Defaulting Lender; , that, (i) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Default exists; and (ii) the aggregate obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit
Reallocation of Ratable Shares to Reduce Fronting Exposure
provided
 
shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Commitment of that non-Defaulting Lender (2) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances of that Lender.
minus
 
(b)           .
Defaulting Lender Cure
 
If the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any Cash Collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Revolving Credit Advances and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares (without giving effect to Section2.21(a)(iv)), whereupon that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
 
SECTION 3.01.  .  Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
 
(a)           There shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since January 30, 2010.
 
(b)           There shall exist no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pending or threatened before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect other than the matters described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto (the "") or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there shall have been no adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto.
Disclosed Litigation
 
(c)           Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the Information Memorandum was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management, records, books of account, contracts and properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as they shall have requested.
 
(d)           All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and shall remain in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
(e)           The Borrower shall have notified each Lender and the Administrative Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
 
(f)            The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent).
 
(g)           On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Administrative Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
 
(i)            The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
 
(ii)           No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
 
(h)           The Administrative Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and in sufficient copies for each Lender:
 
(i)            Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
(ii)           A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement, each other Loan Document and the other documents to be delivered hereunder or thereunder.
 
(iii)          A favorable opinion of Paul W. Heldman, Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
 
(i)            The termination of the commitments of the lenders and the payment in full of all Debt outstanding under the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 15, 2006, as amended, among the Borrower, the lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for said lenders, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for said lenders, Bank of America, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Union Bank of California, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Chicago Branch, as syndication agents, and each of the Lenders that is a party to the foregoing credit agreement (the "") hereby waives any requirement of prior notice for the termination of the commitments or prepayment of advances under such credit agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
(j)            Each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch shall have confirmed in writing that the release of the guarantees made by Subsidiaries of the Borrower in respect of the Borrower's public debt will not result in a downgrade in the ratings given by such agencies to the Borrower's public debt.
 
(k)           The Borrower shall have requested, in accordance with each applicable indenture, that the guarantees made by Subsidiaries of the Borrower in respect of the Borrower's public debt be terminated.
 
SECTION 3.02.  .  The obligation of each Lender to make a Revolving Credit Advance (other than a Base Rate Advance made by any Issuing Bank or any Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) on the occasion of each Revolving Credit Borrowing and the obligation of each Issuing Bank to issue a Letter of Credit shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing or Issuance (a) the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing or Notice of Issuance and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Borrowing or of such Letter of Credit shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing or Issuance such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Revolving Credit Borrowing and Issuance
 
(i)            the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (other than the representations and warranties in the last sentence of subsection (e) and in subsection (f) (other than clause
 
(ii) thereof)) are correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Revolving Credit Borrowing or Issuance of a Letter of Credit and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and
 
(ii)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Revolving Credit Borrowing or Issuance of a Letter of Credit or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default;
 
and (b) the Administrative Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
 
SECTION 3.03.  .  Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 7.03, for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Effective Date specifying its objection thereto.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
 
SECTION 4.01.  .  The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a)           The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Ohio.
 
(b)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Loan Documents and which are delivered hereunder and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter, regulations or by-laws, as applicable, or (ii) law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower.
 
(c)           No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of any Loan Document, except for those authorizations, approvals, actions, notices and filings listed on Schedule 4.01(c) hereto, all of which have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and are in full force and effect.
 
(d)           This Agreement has been, and each of the other Loan Documents when delivered will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower.  This Agreement is, and each of the other Loan Documents, when delivered hereunder, will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
 
(e)           The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and variable interest entities in which the Borrower is the primary beneficiary as at January 30, 2010, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the Fiscal Year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public accountants, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period ended on such date, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.  Since January 30, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
 
(f)            There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) could be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Litigation) and there has been no adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto, or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of the Loan Documents or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
 
(g)           The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance or of any Letter of Credit will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock.
 
(h)           The Borrower is not an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
SECTION 5.01. 
Affirmative Covenants
.  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower will:
 
(a)             Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws.
Compliance with Laws, Etc.
 
(b)           .  Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, (i) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property and (ii) all lawful claims that, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
 
(c)           .  Maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
 
(d)           .  Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate any merger or consolidation permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if a Responsible Officer of the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Borrower, such Subsidiary or the Lenders.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
 
(e)           .  At any reasonable time and from time to time, permit the Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make
Visitation Rights
 
copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and with their independent certified public accountants.
 
(f)            .  Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
 
(g)           .  Maintain and preserve all of its properties in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and maintain all necessary licenses and permits if, in each case, failure to so maintain and preserve would result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
 
(h)           .  Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
 
(i)            as soon as available and in any event within 50 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each Fiscal Year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous Fiscal Year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by a Financial Officer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certificates of a Financial Officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance with Section 5.03 and a calculation of the Leverage Ratio, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
 
(ii)           as soon as available and in any event within 100 days after the end of each Fiscal Year of the Borrower, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such Fiscal Year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such Fiscal Year, in each case accompanied by an opinion acceptable to the Required Lenders by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants acceptable to the Required Lenders, that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
 
(iii)          as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of a Financial Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(iv)          promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all quarterly and annual reports and proxy solicitations that the Borrower sends to any of its securityholders, and copies of all reports on Form 8-K that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (other than reports on Form 8-K filed solely for the purpose of incorporating exhibits into a registration statement previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission);
 
(v)           promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
 
(vi)          such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
 
The financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) and the reports required to be delivered pursuant to clause (iv) of this Section 5.01(h) shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which the same have been posted on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent will make available to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities.  The Borrower hereby agrees (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Proprietary Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section 8.07); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Side Information;" and (z) the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Side Information."  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
 
(i)            .  Notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Subsidiary of the Borrower becomes a guarantor of any senior unsecured Debt of the Borrower, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days), cause such Subsidiary to (a) become a guarantor of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Documents by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of a guaranty in form and substance as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose, and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) of and favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Subsidiary Guarantors
Section 3.01(h)
 
SECTION 5.02.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
 
(a)            
Liens, Etc.
Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than:
 
(i)            Liens on any property or assets of any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Subsidiary that such Lien does not extend to any other property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
provided
 
(ii)           Liens on any property or assets (including stock) existing at the time of acquisition of such property or assets by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of such property or assets (including stock), upon the acquisition of such property or assets by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or to secure Debt incurred, assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price of such property or in the case of real property, construction or improvements thereon or attaching to property substituted by the Borrower to obtain the release of a Lien on other property of the Borrower on which a Lien then exists, which Debt is incurred, assumed or guaranteed prior to, at the time of, or within 18 months after such acquisition (or in the case of real property, completion of construction (including any improvements on an existing asset) or commencement of full operations at such property, whichever is later (which in the case of a retail store is the opening of the store for business to the public)), that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement, the Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets theretofore owned by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
provided
 
(iii)          Liens securing Debt owing by any Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary of the Borrower;
 
(iv)          Liens on any property or assets of a corporation existing at the time such corporation is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or at the time of a purchase, lease or other acquisition or the assets of a corporation or firm as an entirety or substantially as an entirety by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that such Lien does not extend to any other property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries;
provided
 
(v)           Liens on any property or assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State thereof, or in favor of any other country, or any political subdivision thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any Debt incurred or guaranteed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price (or, in the case of real property, the cost of construction) of the property or assets subject to such Liens (including, but not limited to, Liens incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financing);
 
(vi)          Liens existing on properties or assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries existing on the Effective Date; that such Liens shall secure only those obligations which they secure on the Effective Date or any extension, renewal or replacement thereof;
provided
 
(vii)         any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) to (vi), inclusive; provided that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property or assets which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements and construction on real property);
 
(viii)        Liens imposed by law, such as mechanics', workmen's, repairmen's, materialmen's, carriers' warehouseman's, vendors', or other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or governmental (federal, state or municipal) Liens arising out of contracts for the sale of products or services by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or deposits or pledges to obtain the release of any of the foregoing Liens;
 
(ix)           pledges, Liens or deposits under worker's compensation laws or similar legislation and Liens or judgments thereunder which are not currently dischargeable, or in connection with bids, tenders, contracts (other than for the payment of money) or leases to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, or to secure the public or statutory obligations of
 
the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or in connection with obtaining or maintaining self insurance or to obtain the benefits of any law, regulation or arrangement pertaining to unemployment insurance, old age pensions, social security or similar matters, or to secure surety, appeal or customs bonds to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, or in litigation or other proceedings such as, but not limited to, interpleader proceedings, and other similar pledges, Liens or deposits made or incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(x)            Liens created by or resulting from any litigation or other proceeding which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, including Liens arising out of judgments or awards against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, with respect to which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is in good faith prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review or for which the time to make an appeal has not yet expired; or final unappealable judgment Liens which are satisfied within 30 days of the date of judgment; or Liens incurred by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries for the purpose of obtaining a stay or discharge in the course of any litigation or other proceeding to which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is a party;
 
(xi)           Liens for taxes or assessments of governmental charges or levies not yet due or delinquent, or which can thereafter be paid without penalty, or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; landlord's Liens on property held under lease; and any other Liens or charges incidental to the conduct of the business of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the ownership of the property or assets of any of them which were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit and which do not, in the opinion of the Borrower, materially impair the use of such property or assets in the operation of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary or the value of such property or assets for the purposes of such business; or
 
(xii)          Liens not permitted by the foregoing clauses (i) to (xi), inclusive, if at the time of, and after giving effect to, the creation or assumption of such Lien, the aggregate amount of all Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries secured by all Liens not so permitted by the foregoing clauses (i) through (xi) above together with the Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions (as such terms are defined in, and such amount is calculated in accordance with, the Indenture) does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
(b)
          
Mergers
, Etc.
 
Merge or consolidate with or into any Person, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except that any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into any other Subsidiary of the Borrower or into any other Person (so long as the surviving corporation is a Subsidiary of the Borrower), and except that any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any other Person may merge into the Borrower, , in each case, that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom.
provided
 
(c)           .  Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any significant change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required by generally accepted accounting principles.  The parties acknowledge that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may change their fiscal years to conform the fiscal years of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Accounting Changes
 
(d)           .  Sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of, any assets, or grant any option or other right to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any assets, except (i) dispositions of assets in the ordinary course of its business, (ii) in a transaction authorized by subsection (b) of this Section, (iii) pursuant to sale-leaseback transactions for not less than fair market value, (iv) in a transaction with any Subsidiary and (v) sales of assets for fair value, that the aggregate value of such assets sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of pursuant to clause (v) during the term of this Agreement shall not be greater than 20% of the total assets from time to time before giving effect to the LIFO reserve of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis.
Sales, Etc. of Assets
provided
 
(e)           .  Permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Debt other than:
Subsidiary Debt
 
(i)            Debt owed to the Borrower or to a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower,
 
(ii)           Debt consisting of Capital Lease Obligations;
 
(iii)          Debt
(after deducting Debt permitted under clauses (i), (ii), and (iv) of this Section 5.02(e))
aggregating for all of the Borrower's Subsidiaries not more than 5% of Consolidated Tangible Assets at any one time outstanding, and
 
(iv)          endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of business.
 
SECTION 5.03.  .  So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Financial Covenants
 
(a)           .  Maintain a Leverage Ratio (determined as of the last day of each Fiscal Quarter for the Rolling Period ending on such day) of not greater than: 3.50:1.00.
Leverage Ratio
 
 (b)          .  Maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (determined as of the last day of any Fiscal Quarter for the Rolling Period ending on such day) of not less than 1.70:1.00.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
SECTION 6.01.  .  If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
 
(a)           The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
 
(b)           Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with any Loan Document shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
 
(c)           (i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e) or (h), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender; or
 
(d)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal or notional amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or
 
condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(e)           The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 30 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
 
(f)            Any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
provided
however
 
(g)           Any non-monetary judgment or order shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
 
(h)           Any Change in Control shall have occurred; or
 
(i)            (x)
A Reportable Event or Reportable Events, or a failure to make a required installment or other payment (within the meaning of Section 430(j) of the Internal Revenue Code) shall have occurred with respect to any Plan or Plans, (y) a trustee shall be appointed by a United States District Court to administer any such Plan or Plans or (z) the PBGC shall institute proceedings (including giving notice of intent thereof) to terminate any Plan or Plans, that, in any such case, results in liability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the PBGC or to a Plan in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 and an amount due the PBGC or a Plan in respect of such liability in an amount exceeding $100,000,000 remains unpaid 30 days after such payment is due; or
 
(j)            (i) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that it has incurred Withdrawal Liability to such Multiemployer Plan, (ii) the Borrower or such ERISA Affiliate does not have reasonable grounds for contesting such Withdrawal Liability or is not in fact contesting such Withdrawal Liability in a timely and appropriate manner and (iii) the amount of the Withdrawal Liability specified in such notice, when aggregated with all other amounts required to be paid by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates to Multiemployer Plans in connection with Withdrawal Liabilities (determined as of the date or dates of such notification) exceeds $100,000,000 and Withdrawal Liabilities in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 remain unpaid 30 days after such payment is
 
due (unless such Withdrawal Liability is being contested in good faith by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate); or
 
(k)           the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or is being terminated, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, if solely as a result of such reorganization or termination the aggregate contributions of the Borrower and its ERISA Affiliates to all Multiemployer Plans that are then in reorganization or have been or are being terminated have been or will be increased over the amounts required to be contributed to such Multiemployer Plans for their most recently completed plan years by an amount exceeding $100,000,000 and any such contribution in an amount exceeding $100,000,000 remains unpaid 30 days after such payment is due; or
 
(l)            any Loan Document shall not be for any reason, or shall be asserted by the Borrower (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or such Loan Document) not to be, in full force and effect and enforceable in all material respects in accordance with its terms;
 
then, and in any such event, the Administrative Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances to be made by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of any Issuing Bank or of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (iii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances (other than Advances to be made by an Issuing Bank or a Lender pursuant to Section 2.03(c)) and of any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
 
SECTION 6.02.  .  (a)  If, at any time and from time to time, any Letters of Credit shall have been issued by any Issuing Bank hereunder and (i) a Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (ii) the Borrower shall have given notice of prepayment in whole under Section 2.10 of all Advances or shall have prepaid in whole all Advances, (iii) the latest Termination Date shall have occurred or (iv) if at any time, as a result of prepayments pursuant to Section 2.10, the latest Termination Date shall be a date not more than 30 days following the expiration of any Letter of Credit, then, upon the occurrence of any of the events described in clauses (i) through (iv) above, the Administrative Agent may, and upon the request of any Issuing Bank or of the Required Lenders shall, whether in addition to the taking by the Administrative Agent of any of the actions described in Article VI or otherwise, make demand upon the Borrower to, and forthwith upon such demand the Borrower will, pay to the Administrative Agent for its benefit and the ratable benefit of the Lenders in same day funds at the Administrative Agent's office designated in such demand, for deposit in a special cash collateral account (the "") to be maintained in the name of the Administrative Agent and under the sole dominion and control of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the ratable benefit of the Lenders at such place as shall be designated by the Administrative Agent, an amount equal to the amount of the Letter of Credit Obligations.
Actions in Respect of Letters of Credit
Letter of Credit Collateral Account
 
(b)           The Borrower hereby pledges and assigns to the Administrative Agent for its benefit and the ratable benefit of the Lenders, and grants to the Administrative Agent for its benefit and the ratable benefit of the Lenders a lien on and a security interest in, the following collateral (the ""):
Letter of Credit Collateral
 
(i)            the Letter of Credit Collateral Account, all cash deposited therein, and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time representing or evidencing the Letter of Credit Collateral Account;
 
(ii)           all Eligible Securities (as defined below) from time to time held by the Administrative Agent and all certificates and instruments from time to time representing or evidencing Eligible Securities;
 
(iii)          all notes, certificates of deposit and other instruments from time to time hereafter delivered to or otherwise possessed by the Administrative Agent for or on behalf of the Borrower in substitution for or in respect of any or all of the then existing Letter of Credit Collateral;
 
(iv)          all interest, dividends, cash, instruments and other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in respect of or in exchange for any or all of the then existing Letter of Credit Collateral; and
 
(v)           to the extent not covered by clauses (i) through (iv) above, all proceeds of any or all of the foregoing Letter of Credit Collateral.
 
The lien and security interest granted hereby secures the payment of all obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing hereunder and under any other Loan Document.
 
(c)           The Borrower hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to apply, from time to time after funds are deposited in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account, funds then held in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account to the payment of any amounts, in such order as the Administrative Agent may elect, as shall have become or shall become due and payable by the Borrower to the Lenders in respect of the Letters of Credit.
 
(d)           Neither the Borrower nor any Person claiming or acting on behalf of or through the Borrower shall have any right to withdraw any of the funds held in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account, except as provided in Section 6.02(h); , , that as long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and to the extent that there is an amount in excess of $1,000,000 in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account at the end of any Business Day after taking into account applications of funds, if any, from the Letter of Credit Collateral Account made pursuant to Section 6.02(c), the Administrative Agent will, at the written request of the Borrower, from time to time invest amounts on deposit in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account in such instruments described in clause (b), (c) or (d) of the definition of the term "Permitted Investments" in Section 1.01 as the Borrower may select and the Administrative Agent may approve (the ""); that in order to provide the Administrative Agent with a perfected security interest therein, each investment in Eligible Securities shall be evidenced by negotiable certificates or instruments, of which the Administrative Agent shall take physical possession.  If the Borrower shall have the right to have amounts on deposit in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account invested by the Administrative Agent, but shall have failed to request the Administrative Agent to invest such amounts, the Administrative Agent will endeavor to invest such amounts in such Eligible Securities as the Administrative Agent shall select.  Any interest received by the Administrative Agent in respect of Eligible Securities shall be credited against the Letter of Credit Obligations.  Non-interest proceeds from Eligible Securities that are not invested or reinvested in Eligible Securities as provided above shall be deposited and held in cash in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account under the sole dominion and control of the Administrative Agent.
provided
however
Eligible Securities
provided
further
 
(e)           The Borrower agrees that it will not (i) sell or otherwise dispose of any interest in the Letter of Credit Collateral or (ii) create or permit to exist any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance upon or with respect to any of the Letter of Credit Collateral, except for the security interest created by this Section 6.02.
 
(f)            If any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing:
 
(i)  The Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, without notice to the Borrower except as required by law and at any time from time to time, charge, set off and otherwise apply all or any part of , the Letter of Credit Obligations and , the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under any of the Loan Documents, against the Letter of Credit Collateral Account or any part thereof, in such order as the Administrative Agent shall elect.  The Administrative Agent agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by the Administrative Agent, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.  The rights of the
first
second
provided
 
Administrative Agent under this Section 6.02(f) are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that the Administrative Agent may have.
 
(ii)  The Administrative Agent may also exercise, in its sole discretion, in respect of the Letter of Credit Collateral Account, in addition to the other rights and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to it, all the rights and remedies of a secured party upon default under the Uniform Commercial Code in effect in the State of New York at that time, and the Administrative Agent may, without notice except as specified below, sell the Letter of Credit Collateral or any part thereof in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any of the Administrative Agent's offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, and upon such other terms as the Administrative Agent may deem commercially reasonable.  The Borrower agrees that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, at least ten days' notice to the Borrower of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification.  The Administrative Agent shall not be obligated to make any sale of Letter of Credit Collateral or any part thereof, regardless of notice of sale having been given.  The Administrative Agent may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so adjourned.
 
(iii)  Any cash held in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account, and all cash proceeds received by the Administrative Agent in respect of any sale of, collection from or other realization upon all or any part of the Letter of Credit Collateral Account may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, then or at any time thereafter be applied (after payment of any amounts payable pursuant to Section 8.03) in whole or in part by the Administrative Agent for the ratable benefit of the Lenders against all or any part of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under any of the Loan Documents in such order as the Administrative Agent may elect.
 
(g)           The Administrative Agent shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the Letter of Credit Collateral if the Letter of Credit Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which the Administrative Agent accords its own property, it being understood that the Administrative Agent shall not have any responsibility or liability (i) for ascertaining or taking action with respect to calls, conversions, exchanges, maturities, tenders or other matters relative to any Eligible Securities, whether or not the Administrative Agent has or is deemed to have knowledge of such matters, (ii) for taking any necessary steps to preserve rights against any parties with respect to the Letter of Credit Collateral, (iii) for the collection of any proceeds from Eligible Securities, (iv) by reason of any invalidity, lack of value or uncollectability of any of the payments received by the Administrative Agent from obligors with respect to Eligible Securities, or (v) for any loss resulting from investments made pursuant to Section 6.02(d), except to the extent such loss was attributable to the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct in complying with Section 6.02(d), or (vi) in connection with any investments made pursuant to Section 6.02(d) without a written request from the Borrower, or any failure by the Administrative Agent to make any such investment, provided that it acts in a reasonably prudent manner.
 
(h)           Any surplus of the funds held in the Letter of Credit Collateral Account and remaining after payment in full of all of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and under any other Loan Document after the latest Termination Date shall be paid to the Borrower or to whomsoever may be lawfully entitled to receive such surplus.
 
SECTION 7.01.  .  Each Lender (in its capacity as a Lender and an Issuing Bank (if applicable)) hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or
Appointment and Authority
 
thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall nothave rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
 
SECTION 7.02.  .  The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
 
SECTION 7.03.  .  The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations to the Lenders except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
 
(a)           shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
 
(b)           shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents or that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
 
(c)           shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 and 6.01) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or an Issuing Bank.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
SECTION 7.04.  .  The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance of a Letter of
Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or such Issuing Bank unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or such Issuing Bank prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
SECTION 7.05.  .  (a) The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Advances then owing to each of them (or if no Revolving Credit Advances are at the time outstanding or if any Revolving Credit Advances are then owing to Persons that are not Lenders, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Agent under the Loan Documents (collectively, the ""), that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from such Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse each Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by such Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that such Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower.  In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Indemnification
Indemnified Costs
provided
 
(b)           The Lenders agree to indemnify each Issuing Bank (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Advances then owing to each of them (or if no Revolving Credit Advances are at the time outstanding or if any Revolving Credit Advances are then owing to Persons that are not Lenders, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against any Issuing Bank in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Issuing Bank under the Loan Documents, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such indemnified costs resulting from such Issuing Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct.  Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse such Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any costs and expenses (including counsel fees) payable by the Borrower under Section 8.03, to the extent such Issuing Bank is not promptly reimbursed for such costs and expenses by the Borrower.
provided
 
(c)           The failure of any Lender to reimburse the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank promptly upon demand for its share of any amount required to be paid by the Lenders to the Administrative Agent or an Issuing Bank as provided herein shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to reimburse the Administrative Agent or such Issuing Bank for its Ratable Share of such amount, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to reimburse the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank for such other Lender's Ratable Share of such amount.  Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of any Lender hereunder, the agreement and obligations of each Lender contained in this Section 7.05 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder.  In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any indemnification under this Section, this Section applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Administrative Agent, an Issuing Bank, any Lender or a third party.  Each of the Administrative Agent and each Issuing Bank agrees to return to the Lenders their respective shares of any amounts paid under this Section that are subsequently reimbursed by the Borrower.
 
SECTION 7.06.  .  The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. 
Delegation of Duties
 
The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
 
SECTION 7.07.  .  The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, subject to the approval of the Borrower so long as no Event of Default is continuing, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and each Issuing Bank directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent and shall promptly enter into a licensing agreement with the Reference Pricing Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents and the License Agreement (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 8.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
 
(b)           Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as an Issuing Bank.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank, (b) the retiring
Issuing Bank shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
 
SECTION 7.08.  .  Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
 
SECTION 7.09.  .  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the bookrunners, Arrangers, syndication agent or co-documentation agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Bank hereunder.
No Other Duties, Etc
 
SECTION 7.10.  .  In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any debtor relief law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Advance or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
 
(a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Advances, Letter of Credit Obligations and all other obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Administrative Agent under Sections 2.04 and 8.03) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
 
(b)           to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each Issuing Bank to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under Sections 2.04 and 8.03.
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or any Issuing Bank any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the obligations or the rights of any Lender or any Issuing Bank to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or any Issuing Bank in any such proceeding.
 
SECTION 8.01. 
Waivers
;
Amendments
, Etc
.
  (a)  No failure or delay on the part of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or any Lender in exercising any power or right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuation of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power.  The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have.  No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) below (other than a waiver of the minimum amount of Commitment assumed by an Assuming Lender pursuant to Section 2.17 or by an assignee pursuant to Section 8.06, which may be waived by unilateral consent of the Borrower), and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given.  No notice or demand on the Borrower in any case shall entitle the Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
 
(b)           Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except (i) in the case of this Agreement, pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders and either acknowledged by or notified to the Administrative Agent or (ii) in the case of a Letter of Credit, pursuant to an agreement or agreements entered into by the Borrower and the applicable Issuing Bank; , , that no such agreement shall (A) change the principal amount of any Advance or Letter of Credit Obligation, extend the final scheduled maturity of any Advance, extend the scheduled
provided
however
date for payment (but not prepayments) of principal of or interest on any Advance (other than as provided in Section 2.17), forgive any such payment or any part thereof or reduce the rate of interest on any Advance, in each case without the prior written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (B) increase the amount or extend the termination date of the Commitment of any Lender (other than as provided in Section 2.17 or 2.19) or reduce or extend the date for payment of the Commitment Fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement to any Lender, in each case without the prior written consent of such Lender or (C) amend or modify the provisions of this Section 8.01(b) or Section 8.05 or the definition of the term "Required Lenders", without the prior written consent of each Lender; and that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Banks hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Banks, respectively.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
provided
further
 
(c)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Borrower shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with Article VI for the benefit of all the Lenders and the Issuing Banks; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) any Issuing Bank from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Issuing Bank) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with Section 8.04 (subject to the terms of Section 2.13), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to the Borrower under any debtor relief law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Article VI and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to Section 2.13, any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
provided
however
provided
further
 
SECTION 8.02. 
Notices, Etc
.  (a)  .  Except as otherwise expressly permitted herein, notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
 
(i)            if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 8.02
 
(ii)           If to any Lender (including in its capacity as Issuing Bank), at its address (or telecopy number) set forth on its Administrative Questionnaire provided to the Administrative Agent prior to the date hereof or in the Assumption Agreement or Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have become a party hereto.
 
All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by telecopy, or on the date five Business Days after dispatch by certified or registered mail if mailed, in each case delivered, sent or mailed (properly addressed) to such party as provided in Section 8.02 or in accordance with the latest unrevoked direction from such party given in accordance with this Section 8.02.  The Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower a copy of each Administrative Questionnaire received by it.
 
(b)           .  Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet
Electronic Communications
or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.   The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its
discretion
, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
 
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
 
(c)           .  THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS.  NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM.  In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise)
The Platform
Agent Parties
arising
out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
provided
however
 
(d)           .  Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks.  In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.  Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
 
(e)           .  The Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Notices or Revolving Credit Borrowings) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof.  The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except to the extent that such losses, costs, expenses
Reliance by Administrative Agent, Issuing Banks and Lenders
and liabilities have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Person.  All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
 
SECTION 8.03.  .  (a)  The Borrower agrees to pay (i) the reasonable fees, disbursements and other charges of counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks incurred in connection with the preparation of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions hereby contemplated shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or any Lender in connection with the enforcement or protection of their rights in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with the Advances or the Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including the reasonable fees, disbursements and other charges of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks, in connection with any such enforcement or protection and the reasonable fees, disbursements and other charges of any other counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or any Lender.  The Borrower further agrees that it shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders from, and hold them harmless against, any documentary taxes, assessments or similar charges made by any Governmental Authority by reason of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or any Note.
Expenses; Indemnity
 
(b)           The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and each Lender and each of their respective Related Parties (each such person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, disbursements and other charges, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in any way connected with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto or thereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (ii) the use of the Letters of Credit or proceeds of the Advances or (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto, that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.  The Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim against any Indemnitee for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages arising out of or otherwise relating to the Advances, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the actual or proposed use of the Letters or Credit of the proceeds of the Advances.  No Indemnitee shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnitee
provided
 
(c)           If any payment of principal of any Eurodollar Rate Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of any Conversion, payment pursuant to Section 2.06, prepayment pursuant to clause (ii) of the proviso to Section 2.10(a) or acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, the Borrower shall, upon demand by any Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that such Lender may incur as a result of such payment, including any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
 
(d)           The provisions of this Section 8.03 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of any of the Advances, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement, or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or any Lender.  All amounts due under this Section 8.03 shall be payable on written demand therefor.
SECTION 8.04.  .  If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized, in addition to any other right or remedy that any Lender may have by operation of law or otherwise, at any time and from time to time, without notice to the Borrower (any such notice being expressly waived by the Borrower), to exercise its banker's lien or right of setoff and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Note held by such Lender, irrespective of whether such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any Note and although such obligations may be unmatured; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.21 and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff.  The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender may have.
Right of Set-off
provided
 
SECTION 8.05.  .  This Agreement shall become effective (other than Section 2.01, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Banks and when the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lenders.
Binding Effect
 
SECTION 8.06.  .  (a)  Subject to Section 8.05, whenever in this Agreement any of the parties hereto is referred to, such reference shall be deemed to include the successors and assigns of such party; and all covenants, promises and agreements by or on behalf of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks or the Lenders that are contained in this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
(b)           Each Lender may assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, the outstanding Letters of Credit and the Advances at the time owing to it); , , that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, each of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank that has a Letter of Credit outstanding and the Borrower must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld and such approval to be deemed granted by the Borrower if not denied in a writing specifying the reasons for such denial within ten Business Days); , , the consent of the Borrower shall not be required if a Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 (or an amount equal to the remaining balance of such Lender's Commitment), (iii) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (except that such fee shall not be required with respect to assignments to Affiliates), and (iv) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire. Each assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any right to make Competitive Bid Advances and Competitive Bid Advances owing to it).  Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 8.06, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, which effective date shall be at least five Business Days after the execution thereof and in no event shall precede the date of such recording, (i) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, shall have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement and (ii) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall
provided
however
provided
further
however
cease to be a party hereto, but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.03, as well as to any Commitment Fees accrued for its account and not yet paid).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any Lender assigning its rights and obligations under this Agreement may retain any Competitive Bid Advances made by it outstanding at such time, and in such case shall retain its rights hereunder in respect of any Advances so retained until such Advances have been repaid in full in accordance with this Agreement.
 
In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances and participations in Letters of Credit in accordance with its Ratable Share.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
 
(c)           By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder shall be deemed to confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim created by it and that its Commitment, and the outstanding balances of its Advances, in each case without giving effect to assignments thereof that have not become effective, are as set forth in such Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) except as set forth in clause (i) above, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement, or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto, or the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of any amendments or consents entered into prior to the date of such Assignment and Acceptance and copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(h) and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (v) such assignee will independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
 
(d)           The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in, or determined pursuant to, Section 8.02 a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register (the "") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time and whether such Lender is a Lender on the Effective Date, or the assignee of such a Lender or an Assuming Lender.  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement.  In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation, of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
.
 
(e)           Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, together with an Administrative Questionnaire completed in respect of the assignee (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) above to the extent required under paragraph (b) above and the written consent (to the extent required under paragraph (b) above), of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) in the case of the Administrative Agent, record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks.  No assignment shall be effective unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph (e).
 
(f)            Each Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, the outstanding of Letters of Credit and the Advances owing to it); , , that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) the participating banks or other entities shall be entitled to the benefit of the cost protection provisions contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.03 to the same extent as if they were Lenders ( that the Borrower shall not be required to reimburse the participating banks or other entities pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.03 in an amount that exceeds the amount that would have been payable thereunder to such Lender had such Lender not sold such participation) and (iv) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce the obligations of the Borrower and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement ( that the participating bank or other entity may be provided with the right to approve amendments, modifications or waivers affecting it with respect to (A) any decrease in the Commitment Fees or other amounts payable hereunder with respect to Commitments in which the participating bank or other entity has purchased a participation, (B) any change in the amount of principal of, or decrease in the rate at which interest is payable on, the Advances in which the participating bank or other entity has purchased a participation or (C) any extension of the final scheduled maturity of any Advance in which the participating bank or other entity has purchased a participation.
provided
however
provided
provided
 
(g)           Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in paragraph (b) above, any Lender may at any time assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement, including to a Federal Reserve Bank, without the prior written consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank, that no such assignment shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such Bank for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
 
(h)           Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the Issuing Banks may not assign or delegate any of their respective rights and duties hereunder without the prior written consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
 
(i)            The Borrower may, with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, replace any of the Lenders with one or more assignees, (i) that the Lender being replaced has been paid in full for all Advances made by such Lender and all other amounts accrued or due to such Lender hereunder, (ii) that the full amount of the Commitments remain unchanged and (iii) that the percentages of the total Commitments allocated to the Lenders (other than any replaced Lenders) remain unchanged unless prior written consent from any such affected Lenders has been obtained.  Upon any such replacement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.03, as well as to any Commitment Fees accrued for its account under Section 2.04 and not yet paid.
provided
 
(j)
                                    
In the event that:
 
(i)            any Lender shall have refused (and shall not have retracted such refusal) to make available any Advance on its part to be made available hereunder, other than solely as a result of the failure of any condition set forth in Article III to be satisfied (such condition not having been effectively waived in accordance with the terms hereof);
(ii)           any Lender shall have notified either the Administrative Agent or the Borrower (and shall not have retracted such notification) that it does not intend to comply with any of its obligations hereunder, other than solely as a result of the failure of any condition set forth in Article III to be satisfied (such condition not having been effectively waived in accordance with the terms hereof);
 
(iii)          any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender; or
 
(iv)          any Lender shall make demand upon the Borrower for any amount pursuant to Section 2.11 or 2.14;
 
the Borrower shall have the right, at its own expense, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent (A) to require such Lender, and such Lender hereby agrees, to use commercially reasonable efforts to transfer and assign without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 8.06(b)) all the interests, rights and obligations of such Lender to an assignee; , , that (1) no such assignment shall conflict with any law, rule or regulation or order of any Governmental Authority and (2) the Borrower or such assignee, as the case may be, shall pay to such Lender in same day funds on the date of such assignment the principal of and interest accrued on the date of payment on the Advances made by such Lender hereunder and all other amounts accrued for such Lender's account or owed to it hereunder or (B) to replace such Lender with one or more assignees, , in the case of this clause (B), (1) that the Lender being replaced has been paid in full for all Advances made by such Lender and all other amounts accrued or due to such Lender hereunder, (2) that the full amount of the Commitments remains unchanged and (3) that the percentage of the total Commitments allocated to the Lenders (other than any replaced Lenders) remains unchanged unless prior written consent from such Lenders has been obtained, (4) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (5) the replacement Lender is acceptable to the Administrative Agent and (6) if such replacement Lender is not an existing Lender, the Borrower shall have paid the Administrative Agent a processing and recordation fee of $3,500.  Upon any assignment, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.03, as well as to any fees accrued for its account under Section 2.04 and not yet paid.
provided
however
provided
 
(j)            Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an "") of such Granting Lender, identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Advance that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment to make any Advance by any SPC and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Advance, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Advance pursuant to the terms hereof.  The making of an Advance by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Advance were made by the Granting Lender.  Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any payment under this Agreement for which a Lender would otherwise be liable, for so long as, and to the extent, the related Granting Lender makes such payment.  In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding senior indebtedness of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings or similar proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof.  In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 8.06, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Advances to its Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (if consented to by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) providing liquidity and/or credit facilities to or for the account of such SPC to fund the Advances made by such SPC or to support the securities (if any) issued by such SPC to fund such Advances and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Advances to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of a surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
 
SECTION 8.07.  .  Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each Lender hereby agree to keep all Proprietary Information (as defined below) confidential and not to disclose or reveal any Proprietary Information to any Person other than the Administrative Agent's or such Lender's directors, officers, employees, Affiliates and agents and to actual or potential assignees
Confidentiality
and participants, and then only on a confidential basis; , , that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may disclose Proprietary Information (a) as required by law, rule, regulation or judicial process or in connection with any litigation or other proceeding relating to this Agreement (provided that the applicable Person shall give the Borrower notice of such disclosure on the same day on which it determines such disclosure to be necessary and in any event prior to such disclosure to the extent not prohibited by law, and, if prior notice is prohibited by law, shall give notice of such disclosure as promptly as is legally permitted), (b) to its attorneys and accountants, (c) as required by any state, or Federal or foreign authority or examiner regulating banks or banking, and (d) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section which inures to the benefit of the Borrower, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to Section 2.19or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" shall include all information about the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that has been furnished by the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, whether furnished before or after the Effective Date, and regardless of the manner in which it is furnished; , , that Proprietary Information does not include information that (i) is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the Administrative Agent or any Lender not permitted by this Agreement, (ii) was available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to its disclosure by the Administrative Agent or such Lender by the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or (iii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a Person other than the Borrower or its Affiliates who, to the best knowledge of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, is not otherwise bound by a confidentiality agreement with the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or is not otherwise prohibited from transmitting the information to the Administrative Agent or such Lender.
provided
however
Proprietary Information
provided
however
 
SECTION 8.08.  .  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
SECTION 8.09.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier or other electronic medium shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 8.10.  .  (a)  The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or Federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court.  Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
 
(b)           The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any New York State or Federal court.  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
 
(c)           Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 8.02.  Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
 
SECTION 8.11.    Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to
Patriot Act.
the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.  The Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender reasonably requests that is necessary to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
Act
 
SECTION 8.12.  .  Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, no Issuing Bank shall have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document.  None of the Issuing Banks, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of an Issuing Bank shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Letter of Credit Agreement.  The Borrower assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement.  Neither an Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of such Issuing Bank shall be liable or responsible for:  (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by such Issuing Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to the Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the Borrower shall have a claim against such Issuing Bank, and such Issuing Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by the Borrower that the Borrower proves were caused by such Issuing Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, such Issuing Bank may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and such Issuing Bank shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason; that nothing herein shall be deemed to excuse such Issuing Bank if it acts with gross negligence or willful misconduct in accepting such documents.
No Liability of the Issuing Banks
provided
however
provided
 
SECTION 8.13.  .  In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, each Arranger, each Issuing Bank and each Lender is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) none of the Administrative Agent, any Arranger, any Issuing Bank or any Lender has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and none of the Administrative Agent, any Arranger, any Issuing Bank or any Lender has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
 
SECTION 8.14.  .  (a)  The Administrative Agent hereby notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that it has entered into a Syndicated Loan Pricing Benchmark Licensing Agreement (the "") with the Reference Pricing Agent, pursuant to which the Reference Pricing Agent will provide to the Administrative Agent for each Business Day a composite end of day credit default swap spread for the three (3) year credit default spread of the Borrower'ssenior unsecured obligations (the "") that the Administrative Agent will use to determine the Applicable Margin.  The Administrative Agent hereby further notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that, pursuant to the Licensing Agreement, (i) the CDS Data will be provided by the Reference Pricing Agent on an "as is" basis, without express or implied warranty as to accuracy, completeness, title, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, (ii) the Reference Pricing Agent has no liability to the Administrative Agent for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions in the CDS Data, except in the event of its gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, (iii) the CDS Data, as provided by the Reference Pricing Agent, constitutes Proprietary Information (as such term is defined in Section 8.07), (iv) the CDS Data, as provided by the Reference Pricing Agent, may be used by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and the Lenders solely for the purposes of this Agreement and (iv) the Reference Pricing Agent and the Administrative Agent shall have no liability whatsoever to either the Borrower or any Lender or any client of a Lender, whether in contract, in tort, under a warranty, under statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by the Borrower, such Lender or client as a result of or in connection with any opinions, recommendations, forecasts, judgments or any other conclusions, or any course of action determined, by such Lender or any client of such Lender based on the CDS Data.  Each of the Borrower and the Lenders (other than Bank of America, in its capacity as the Administrative Agent, which is a party thereto) agrees that it shall not be a third party beneficiary of the Licensing Agreement and shall have no rights or obligations thereunder.
License Agreement and CDS Data
Licensing Agreement
CDS Data
 
(b)           The CDS Data shall be made available to the Borrower pursuant to procedures agreed upon by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.  The Borrower agrees that it will use reasonable efforts (e.g., procedures substantially comparable to those applied by the Borrower in respect of non-public information as to the business of the Borrower) to keep confidential the CDS Data and the related materials provided by the Reference Pricing Agent pursuant to the Licensing Agreement to the extent that the same is not and does not become publicly available; , , that nothing in this subsection shall affect the disclosure of any such information (i) by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower or any Lender, (ii) to the extent required by law (including statute, rule, regulation or judicial process), (iii) to counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower, (iv) to the independent public accountants of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or any Lender, (v) to bank examiners and auditors and appropriate government examining authorities, (vi) in connection with any litigation to which the Administrative Agent, the Borrower or any Lender is a party, (vii) to actual or prospective assignees and participants, or (viii) to any Affiliates of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower and to the respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower and their respective Affiliates; that, prior to any such disclosure pursuant to clause (i) or clause (viii) of this subsection (b), the Person receiving the CDS Data and any related materials shall be advised of the terms of this subsection.  The Licensing Agreement provides that the Reference Pricing Agent shall be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain any breach, threatened or actual, of the confidentiality provisions of this subsection and that damages may not be an adequate remedy in the event of any such breach.
provided
however
provided
 
(c)           The Borrower acknowledges that each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders from time to time may conduct business with and may be a shareholder of the Reference Pricing Agent and that each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may have from time to time the right to appoint one or more directors to the board of directors of the Reference Pricing Agent.
 
SECTION 8.15  .  Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the actions of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
SCHEDULE I
THE KROGER CO.
CREDIT AGREEMENT
APPLICABLE LENDING OFFICES
 
 
Any actions, suits, investigations, litigation or proceedings disclosed in Borrower's periodic or current reports filed with the SEC are incorporated by reference in this Schedule 3.01(b).
 
 
BORROWER
 
The Kroger Co.
1014 Vine Street
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-1100
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
 
Administrative Agent & Swingline Lender Office:
   (CSR)
(For financial/loan activity  advances, pay down, interest/fee billing and payments, rollovers, rate-settings):
Attention:  Kendra McWhite
Phone:  
925- 675-8365
Fax:  888-985-9252
Electronic Mail: Kendra.n.McWhite@baml.com
 
Remittance Instructions
:
Bank of America, N.A.
ABA #: 026-009-593 New York, NY
Account #: 3750836479
Attn: Credit Services West
Ref: The Kroger Company
 
LC Issuer's Office:
(For fee payments due LC Issuer only and new LC requests and amendments):
Trade Operations
1 Fleet Way
Mail Code: PA6-580-02-30 
Scranton, PA 18507
Attention: Mary J. Cooper
Telephone: 570.330.4235
Telecopier: 570.330.4186
Electronic Mail: mary.j.cooper@baml.com
 
Remittance Instructions
:
Bank of America, N.A.
 
ABA #: 026-009-593 New York, NY
Account #: 04535-883980
Attn: Scranton Standby
Ref: Kroger Company & LC #
 
Other Notices as Administrative Agent:
(
For financial statements, compliance certificates, maturity extension and commitment change notices, amendments, consents, vote taking, etc)
Bank of America Plaza
101 S TRYON ST
Mail Code: NC1-002-15-36
Charlotte NC 28255-0001
Attention: Darleen R Parmelee
Telephone: 980.388.5001
Telecopier: 704.409.0645
Electronic Mail: darleen.r.parmelee@baml.com
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1 - FORM OF NOTICE OF
REVOLVING CREDIT BORROWING
 
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
[Address]                                                                           [Date]
 
Attention:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, The Kroger Co., refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent for said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing
 
(i)            The Business Day of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is                               , 20    .
 
(ii)           The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurodollar Rate Advances].
 
(iii)          The aggregate amount of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is $                              .
 
[(iv)         The initial Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is            month[s].]
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing:
 
(A)          the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (other than the representations and warranties in the last sentence of subsection (e) and in subsection (f) (other than clause (ii) thereof)) are correct in all material respects, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date;
 
(B)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default; and
 
(C)           the aggregate amount of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing and all other Borrowings to be made on the same day under the Credit Agreement is within the aggregate amount of the Unused Commitments.
 
EXHIBIT A-2 - FORM OF NOTICE OF
COMPETITIVE BID BORROWING
 
Bank of America, as Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
 
 
Attention:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, The Kroger Co., refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent for said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Competitive Bid Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth the terms on which such Competitive Bid Borrowing (the "") is requested to be made:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing
 
(A)          Date of Competitive Bid Borrowing
(B)           Amount of Competitive Bid Borrowing
(C)           [Maturity Date] [Interest Period]
(D)          Interest Rate Basis
(E)           Interest Payment Date(s)
(F)
(G)
(H)
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing:
 
(a)           the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (other than the representations and warranties in the last sentence of subsection (e) and in subsection (f) (other than clause (ii) thereof)) are correct in all material respects, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date;
 
(b)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default; and
 
(c)           the aggregate amount of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing and all other Borrowings to be made on the same day under the Credit Agreement is within the aggregate amount of the Unused Commitments.
 
The undersigned hereby confirms that the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing is to be made available to it in accordance with Section 2.01(b) of the Credit Agreement.
 
EXHIBIT A-3 - FORM OF
NOTICE OF ISSUANCE
 
                                          , as Issuing Bank
[Address]
 
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
[Address]                                                                         [Date]
 
Attention:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, The Kroger Co., refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent for said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and hereby gives you notice pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Letter of Credit under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to the Issuance of such Letter of Credit (the "") as required by Section 2.03(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
Proposed Issuance
 
(i)            The Business Day of the Proposed Issuance is                     , 20    .
 
(ii)           The Available Amount of such Letter of Credit is                     .
 
(iii)          The expiration date of such Letter of Credit is                     , 20    .
 
(iv)          The name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit is                     .
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Issuance:
 
(A)          the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (other than the representations and warranties in the last sentence of subsection (e) and in subsection (f) (other than clause (ii) thereof)) are correct in all material respects, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Issuance and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date;
 
(B)           no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Issuance or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default; and
 
(C)           the aggregate Available Amount of the Proposed Issuance is within (i) the aggregate amount of the Unused Commitments and (ii) the Letter of Credit Sublimit.
 
EXHIBIT B - FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 8, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "") among The Kroger Co., an Ohio corporation (the ""), the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement), Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and as Administrative Agent for said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
The "Assignor" and the "Assignee" referred to on Schedule I hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, an interest in and to the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof (other than in respect of Competitive Bid Advances and Competitive Bid Notes) equal to the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 hereto of all outstanding rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (other than in respect of Competitive Bid Advances and Competitive Bid Notes).  After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignee's Commitment and the amount of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to the Assignee will be as set forth on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
2.             The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim created by it; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (iv) attaches the Revolving Credit Note held by the Assignor and requests that the Agent exchange such Revolving Credit Note for a new Revolving Credit Note payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto or new Revolving Credit Notes payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto and the Assignor in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by the Assignor under the Credit Agreement, respectively, as specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
 
3.             The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (v) attaches any U.S. Internal Revenue Service forms required under Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement.
 
4.             Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance, it will be delivered to the Agent for acceptance and recording by the Agent.  The effective date for this Assignment and Acceptance (the "") shall be the date of acceptance hereof by the Agent, unless otherwise specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
Effective Date
 
5.             Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance,
 
have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
 
6.             Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement and the Revolving Credit Notes in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and commitment fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee.  The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement and the Revolving Credit Notes for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
 
7.             This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
8.             This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance by telecopier or other electronic medium shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Acceptance.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date specified thereon.
 
 
*
                                        
This date should be no earlier than five Business Days after the delivery of this Assignment and Acceptance to the Agent.
 
 
 
To each of the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement referred to below
and to Bank of America, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
As Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of The Kroger Co., an Ohio corporation (the ""), I am familiar with its affairs and, to the extent necessary to render this opinion, the affairs of its subsidiaries and in particular the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2010 (the ""), among the Company, the banking institutions listed on the signature pages thereof (the "Lenders"), Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent for said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents.  This opinion is delivered to you pursuant to the Credit Agreement.  All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in, or by reference in, the Credit Agreement have the meanings assigned to such terms in, or by reference in, the Credit Agreement unless otherwise indicated herein.
Company
Credit Agreement
 
In connection with the preparation of this opinion, I have examined originals, or certified, conformed or reproduction copies, of such corporate records, agreements, instruments and documents of the Borrower, such certificates of public officials and such other documents as I have deemed necessary or appropriate to its preparation and delivery.  In all such examinations, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures on original or certified, conformed or reproduction copies of documents of all parties other than the Company and the conformity to original or certified copies of all copies submitted to me as conformed or reproduction copies.  As to various questions of fact relevant to such opinions, I have relied upon, and assume the accuracy of, statements or certificates of public officials and statements or certificates of officers or representatives of the Borrower and others.  I am familiar with the proceedings of the Board of Directors of the Borrower in connection with the Credit Agreement.
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the limitations, qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, I am of the opinion that:
 
(1)           The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Ohio.  The Borrower has all requisite corporate power and authority to own or lease and operate its properties, and to carry on its business as presently conducted.  The Borrower has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Credit Agreement, and to perform its obligations under the Credit Agreement.  The Borrower is duly qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all jurisdictions in which it owns or leases assets or in which the conduct of its business requires it to so qualify or be licensed except where the failure to be so licensed or qualified is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or otherwise), performance, operation, properties or prospects thereof.
 
(2)           The Credit Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower.
 
(3)           There are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator which, (a) except as set forth in the Credit Agreement, are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (b) purport to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement.
 
(4)           The execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Credit Agreement (a) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (b) do not require any filing or registration with, or approval or consent of, any governmental agency or authority generally applicable to corporations for profit that has not been made or obtained, and (c) do not contravene (i) any provisions of the Articles of Incorporation of the Borrower or Regulations of the Borrower and all amendments thereto, or (ii) any present law, or governmental regulation of any governmental agency or authority of the State of Ohio generally applicable to corporations for profit which, to my knowledge, is applicable to the Borrower.
 
(5)           The execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the performance by it of its obligations thereunder, to my knowledge, will not contravene any indenture, loan or credit agreement, lease, guarantee, mortgage, security agreement, bond, note or other agreement or instrument, or any order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree, which affect or purport to affect any of the rights or obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement, except as disclosed in the Credit Agreement.
 
(6)           No authorization, consent, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement.
 
(7)           The Credit Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
 
(8)           In general, an Ohio court would give effect to the choice of law provisions in the Credit Agreement which specify New York law as the applicable law (other than instances where Ohio law specifically governs Ohio property, persons or activities, for example, with respect to real property and choice of law rules under the Uniform Commercial Code ("UCC")).  The Supreme Court of Ohio has validated contractual choice of law provisions.  , 17 Ohio St. 3d 189 (1985); , 6 Ohio St. 3d 436 (1983).  In the latter case, the Supreme Court held that the parties may choose the law applicable to their contract unless (i) the state whose law is chosen has no substantial relationship to the parties or to the transaction and there is no other reasonable basis for the parties' choice or (ii) application of the chosen law would be contrary to a fundamental policy of a state having a materially greater interest in the issue than the chosen state and such other state would be the state of applicable law in the absence of a choice by the parties.  In addition, Ohio Revised Code ("R.C.")  1301.05 (UCC 1-105) provides generally with respect to UCC matters (not including issues specifically addressed to the contrary by the Ohio UCC) that when a transaction bears a reasonable relation to Ohio and also to another state, the parties may agree that the law of either Ohio or of such other state shall govern their rights and duties.  Under the present circumstances, it would appear that the parties' stipulation that the law of New York should control should be given effect in Ohio.  This conclusion is based upon our understanding that the transactions provided for in the Credit Agreement were negotiated primarily in New York, were executed and delivered in New York, and are to be performed, in whole or in part, in New York and that the Administrative Agent has its chief places of business outside of the State of Ohio.
Jarvis v. Ashland Oil, Inc.
Schulke Radio Productions, Ltd. v. Midwestern Broadcasting Co.
 
The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications:
 
(a)           My opinion in paragraph 7 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally.
 
(b)           My opinion in paragraph 7 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
(c)           I express no opinion as to (i) Section 2.13 of the Credit Agreement insofar as it provides that any Lender purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant thereto may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation and (ii) the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than
the State of Ohio wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible.
 
The opinions stated herein are limited to the federal laws of the United States of America and the laws of the State of Ohio.  To the extent the opinions stated herein relate to laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America or the State of Ohio, I have assumed for purposes of such opinions that the laws of such jurisdiction are identical to the laws of the State of Ohio.  The opinions are limited to the matters on which I have been expressly asked to opine and do not extend beyond such limits.  The opinions expressed herein are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and may not be relied on in any manner or for any purpose by any other person or entity.
 
 
EXHIBIT D  FORM OF
ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE
 
FAX OR EMAIL ALONG WITH COMMITMENT LETTER TO:
 
 
I.  Borrower Name:            The Kroger Co.
 
$2,000,000,000     Type of Credit Facility
Senior Revolving Credit Facility
 
II. Legal Name of Lender of Record for Signature Page:
 
                 
Signing Credit Agreement        
o
      YES         
o
  NO
                 
Coming in via Assignment        
o
      YES         
o
  NO
 
III. Type of Lender:
(Bank, Asset Manager, Broker/Dealer, CLO/CDO, Finance Company, Hedge Fund, Insurance, Mutual Fund, Pension Fund, Other Regulated Investment Fund, Special Purpose Vehicle, Other  please specify)
 
 
 
VI. 
Contact Information
:
 
Syndicate level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its related parties or their respective securities will be made available to the Credit Contact(s).  The Credit Contacts identified must be able to receive such information in accordance with his/her institution's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and State securities laws.
 
 
Does Secondary Operations Contact need copy of notices?    
o
  YES     
o
  NO
 
 
 
VII. Lender's Standby Letter of Credit, Commercial Letter of Credit, and Bankers' Acceptance Fed Wire Payment Instructions (if applicable):
 
Pay to:
 
 
VIII. Lender's Fed Wire Payment Instructions:
 
Pay to:
 
 
IX. Organizational Structure and Tax Status
 
Please refer to the enclosed withholding tax instructions below and then complete this section accordingly:
 
Lender Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN):               -
 
Tax Withholding Form Delivered to Bank of America:
 
 
Tax Contact
 
Name:
 
Title:
 
Address:
 
Telephone:
 
Facsimile:
 
E Mail Address:
 
NONU.S. LENDER INSTITUTIONS
 
1. Corporations:
 
If your institution is incorporated outside of the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and is the beneficial owner of the interest and other income it receives, you must complete one of the following three tax forms, as applicable to your institution: a.) Form W-8BEN (Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner), b.) Form W-8ECI (Income Effectively Connected to a U.S. Trade or Business), or c.) Form W-8EXP (Certificate of Foreign Government or Governmental Agency).
 
A U.S. taxpayer identification number is required for any institution submitting a Form W-8 ECI.  It is also required on Form W-8BEN for certain institutions claiming the benefits of a tax treaty with the U.S.  Please refer to the instructions when completing the form applicable to your institution.  In addition, please be advised that U.S. tax regulations do not permit the acceptance of faxed forms. 
An original tax form must be submitted.
 
2. Flow-Through Entities
 
If your institution is organized outside the U.S., and is classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as either a Partnership, Trust, Qualified or Non-Qualified Intermediary, or other non-U.S. flow-through entity, an original Form W-8IMY (Certificate of Foreign Intermediary, Foreign Flow-Through Entity, or Certain U.S. branches for United States Tax Withholding) must be completed by the intermediary together with a withholding statement.  Flow-through entities other than Qualified Intermediaries are required to include tax forms for each of the underlying beneficial owners.
 
Please refer to the instructions when completing this form.  In addition, please be advised that U.S. tax regulations do not permit the acceptance of faxed forms.  .
Original tax form(s) must be submitted
 
U.S. LENDER INSTITUTIONS:
 
If your institution is incorporated or organized within the United States, you must complete and return Form W-9 (Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification).  .
Please be advised that we require an original form W-9
 
Pursuant to the language contained in the tax section of the Credit Agreement, the applicable tax form for your institution must be completed and returned on or prior to the date on which your institution becomes a lender under this Credit Agreement.  Failure to provide the proper tax form when requested will subject your institution to U.S. tax withholding.
 
 
X. Bank of America Payment Instructions:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT E - FORM OF
ISSUING BANK REPORT
 
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
[Address]
 
 
Attention:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 8, 2010 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "") among The Kroger Co., an Ohio corporation (the ""), the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement), Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent for said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, U.S. Bank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents.  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned is an Issuing Bank under the Credit Agreement.  Pursuant to Section 2.03(d) of the Credit Agreement, undersigned hereby notifies you of the
following event(s) (check all that apply)
:
 
 
Please contact                      [name] at                      [phone #] or                      [email address] with any questions.
 
 
cc:  The Kroger Co., Assistant Treasurer
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
Schedules
 
Schedule I - List of Applicable Lending Offices
 
Schedule 2.01(c) - Existing Letters of Credit
 
Schedule 3.01(b) - Disclosed Litigation
 
Schedule 4.01(c) - Required Authorizations and Approvals
 
Schedule 8.02 -  Administrative Agent's Office; Certain Addresses for Notices
 
Exhibits
 


