FILE:KR/KR-8K-20120907083930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02
                                              
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On September 7, 2012, the Company released its earnings for second quarter 2012.  Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01
                                              
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Growth Strategy
:  Kroger's business model is structured to produce annual earnings per share growth averaging 6% to 8%, plus a dividend of 1.5% to 2%, for a total shareholder return of approximately 8% to 10%. Kroger expects this total shareholder return to compare favorably to the S&P 500 over a rolling three-to-five year time horizon. Annual earnings per share growth for fiscal 2012 will be higher than our long term model due to a combination of the benefit of a 53rd week, a lower expected LIFO charge compared to 2011, share repurchases, benefits from the UFCW pension plan consolidation and the benefit of Express Scripts transfers.
 
Our ability to achieve identical supermarket sales and earnings growth and earnings per share goals, as well as the timing that those earnings occur within the year, may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including nontraditional competitors, the aggressiveness of competition, and our response to these activities; unexpected changes in product costs; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; the success of our Customer 1
st
 Strategy; the extent to which our customers exercise caution in their purchasing behavior in response to economic conditions as well as rising fuel and food prices; the number of shares outstanding; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; changes in government funded benefit programs; volatility in our fuel margins; increased fuel costs and the effect those increases have on consumer spending; the effect of prescription drugs going off patent has on our  sales and earnings; our expectations regarding our ability to continue to obtain additional pharmacy  sales from third party payors such as Express Scripts; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel.  In addition, any delays in opening new stores, failure to achieve tonnage growth, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales, also could be adversely affected by increased competition, and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products, and the effect that increased numbers of generic pharmaceuticals, which generally carry lower retail prices than brands, have on our sales.  Earnings and sales also may be affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly to the extent that hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and other conditions disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability or increases in the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to our various operations, including the cost of transportation; and the benefits that we receive from the consolidation of the UFCW pension plans.  Our guidance for LIFO is based on our forecast of cost changes for products in our inventory. Our estimate of product cost changes could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that
we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control. Our non-fuel FIFO operating margin guidance could change if we are unable to pass on any cost increases, if our strategies fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated, or if changes in the cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differ from our expectations.  Our LIFO charge and the timing of our recognition of LIFO expense will be affected by changes in product costs during the year.  Our earnings per share results also will be affected by our ability to improve our operating results and our ability to repurchase shares under our repurchase program as expected.  Our capital expenditures, and the number of projects that we complete, could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs vary from those budgeted; our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or within the time frame projected; or if current operating conditions fail to improve, or worsen.  Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Our plans to use cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures, repurchase shares, pay dividends to shareholders, and maintain our current debt rating will depend on our ability to generate free cash flow and otherwise to have cash on hand, which will be affected by all of the factors identified above, as well as the extent to which funds can be used for those reasons while maintaining our debt rating.   Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Should asset values in the multi-employer pension funds deteriorate, if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our contributions and pension expense could increase more than we have anticipated. Likewise, if health care expenses continue to grow at a faster pace than expected, our incremental cost for those expenses will exceed our expectations.  The actual amount of cash contributions to our 401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of employees who participate and the level of their participation.  Total shareholder return, and the extent to which it compares favorably to the S&P 500 over a rolling three-to-five year time horizon, and our ability to reward shareholders through increased earnings per share,  quarterly dividends, and share repurchases, will be affected by all of the factors identified  above, as well as the ability for the company to pay dividends from free cash flow as contemplated.  Our ability to expand non-fuel FIFO operating margin slightly compared to 2011 could be affected by all of the factors outlined above that could cause us to fail to achieve our expected earnings and earnings per share growth.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
                                              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
           
Exhibits
.
 
99.1
                                               
Earnings release for second quarter 2012, filed herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, September 07, 2012  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings of $0.51 per diluted share and identical supermarket sales growth, without fuel, of 3.6% in the second quarter. Other highlights of the quarter include:
 
                
Increased second quarter earnings per diluted share by 10.9% compared to last year
                
Raised earnings per diluted share guidance for the fiscal year to a range of $2.35 to $2.42
                
Increased FIFO operating profit $47 million for the second quarter
                
Achieved 35
th
 consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales, driven by higher tonnage and loyal and total household growth
                
Put strong free cash flow to work for shareholders to buy back 23.7 million shares
 
"We are pleased with Kroger's strong performance in the second quarter," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's chairman and chief executive officer. "Kroger shareholders once again benefited from our Customer 1
st
 strategy. Increased customer loyalty and solid cost controls allowed us to grow sales, profitability, and shareholder value."
 
Kroger reported total sales, including fuel, increased 3.9% to $21.7 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with $20.9 billion for the same period last year. In the second quarter, which ended August 11, 2012, total sales, excluding fuel, increased 3.8% over the same period last year.
 
Net earnings for the second quarter totaled $279.1 million, or $0.51 per diluted share. Net earnings in the same period last year were $280.8 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. Prior year net earnings
 
benefited from a 27.6 percent tax rate, compared to a tax rate of 34.5 percent in the second quarter this year.
 
Details of Second Quarter 2012 Results
 
FIFO gross margin was 20.63% of sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin decreased 43 basis points from the same period last year.
 
Kroger recorded a $34.7 million LIFO charge in the second quarters of both 2012 and 2011.
 
Operating, general and administrative (OG&A) costs plus rent and depreciation were 18.01% of sales. Excluding retail fuel operations, OG&A plus rent and depreciation declined 59 basis points as a percent of sales compared with the prior year.
 
As a result of operating leverage, second quarter FIFO operating profit increased approximately $47 million over the prior year, both with and without fuel. Excluding fuel, on a rolling four quarters basis, the company's FIFO operating margin was 3 basis points lower compared to last year. This is an improvement in the trend from the first quarter. Kroger expects to have a slightly higher FIFO operating margin rate, excluding fuel, for the full 2012 fiscal year.
 
Financial Strategy
 
Kroger's strong free cash flow enabled the company to return more than $1.9 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters. During the second quarter, Kroger repurchased 23.7 million shares for a total investment of $525 million.
 
Capital investment, excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities, totaled $444.7 million for the second quarter, compared with $428.5 million for the same period last year.
 
Net total debt was $8.1 billion for the second quarter, an increase of $1.2 billion from a year ago. On a rolling four quarters basis, Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 1.96 compared with 1.71 during the same period last year.
 
Fiscal 2012 Guidance
 
As a result of strong first half performance and higher than anticipated share repurchase activity, Kroger is increasing its fiscal 2012 earnings guidance to a range of $2.35 to $2.42 per diluted share. The company continues to expect identical supermarket sales growth for the full year, excluding fuel, of 3.0% to 3.5%. Kroger expects to achieve in the upper end of the range for both earnings per share and sales growth. The previous earnings per share guidance was a range of $2.33 to $2.40.
 
"Every day, our associates are delivering a better shopping experience for our customers," Mr. Dillon said. "Kroger's increased earnings per share guidance for the year reflects our confidence that our Customer 1
st
 strategy will continue to create value for our customers and shareholders alike."
 
Kroger, one of the world's largest retailers, employs more than 339,000 associates who serve customers in 2,425 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, City Market, Dillons, Jay C, Food 4 Less, Fred Meyer, Fry's, King Soopers, QFC, Ralphs and Smith's. The company also operates 788 convenience stores, 342 fine jewelry stores, 1,124 supermarket fuel centers and 37 food processing plants in the U.S. Recognized by Forbes as the most generous company in America, Kroger supports hunger relief, breast cancer awareness, the military and their families, and more than 30,000 schools and grassroots organizations in the communities it serves. Kroger contributes food and funds equal to 160 million meals a year through more than 80 Feeding America food bank partners. For more information please visit Kroger.com.
 
 
Note: Fuel sales have historically had a low FIFO gross margin rate and OG&A rate as compared to corresponding rates on non-fuel sales. As a result, in addition to disclosing such rates including the effect of retail fuel operations, Kroger also discusses the changes in these rates excluding the effect of retail fuel operations.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. These statements are indicated by words such as "expects," "continues," "guidance," and "will."  Aggressive competition, economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel and increase customer loyalty, the impact of increasing fuel costs on consumer spending, and labor disputes, particularly as the company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per share, and
 
our ability to continue to create value for shareholders. Earnings per share also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and volatility in the company's fuel margins. Earnings and sales also may be affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly to the extent that hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and other conditions disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability or increases in the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to our various operations, including the cost of transportation. Our results also will be affected by rising commodity costs, the inconsistency of the economic recovery, consumer confidence, changes in government-funded benefit programs, and changes in inflation or deflation in product and operating costs, and our ability to implement cost controls. Our FIFO operating margin, excluding fuel, will be affected by changes in product costs during the year, if our estimates of product cost changes or the timing of those changes prove incorrect, and if competitive or other factors cause our margins on product sold to fail to meet our objectives.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live online at 10 a.m. (ET) on September 7, 2012 at www.kroger.com. An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) Friday, September 7 through Friday, September 21, 2012.
 
View 2
nd
 Quarter 2012 Reports - PDF Format:
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
SUPPLEMENTAL SALES INFORMATION
RECONCILIATION OF TOTAL DEBT TO NET TOTAL DEBT AND NET EARNINGS ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE KROGER CO. TO EBITDA
 
Kroger Contacts:
Media: Keith Dailey (513) 762-1304
Investors: Cindy Holmes (513) 762-4969
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.  Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Note:  The Company defines FIFO gross margin, as described in the earnings release, as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the Last-In First-Out (LIFO) charge.  This measure is included to reflect trends in current cost of product.
 
(a)        Merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses exclude depreciation and amortization expense and rent expense which are included in separate expense lines.
 
(b)        LIFO charges of $34.7 were recorded in the second quarter of 2012 and 2011.  For the year to date period, LIFO charges of $80.7 were recorded for 2012 and 2011.
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance.  Identical supermarket sales is an industry-specific measure and it is important to review it in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies in our industry may calculate identical sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of the measure.
 
 
 
(a)  Kroger defines a supermarket as identical when it has been open without expansion or relocation for five full quarters.
 
 
The items identified below should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or liquidity.  The items below are a primary component of determining compliance with the financial covenants under the Company's credit facility and management believes that they are an important measure of liquidity.  The items below should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the second quarter of 2012 to the balance in the second quarter of 2011.
 
 
The following table provides a reconciliation from net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. to EBITDA, as defined in the Company's credit agreement ("EBITDA"), on a rolling four quarter basis.
 
 


