FILE:KR/KR-8K-20121129084420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02
                                          
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 29, 2012, the Company released its earnings for third quarter 2012.  Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and filed herewith, is the text of that release.
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01
                                          
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
2012 Guidance (annual, unless otherwise noted)
:
 
 
Growth Strategy
:  To support its growth strategy, Kroger expects to increase capital spending by an incremental $200 million annually and increase return on invested capital.  In 2013, Kroger plans to build, expand or relocate 50 supermarkets.   Kroger's long term, fully-diluted earnings per share growth target is 8 to 11 percent, plus a current dividend of 2.5%.  Kroger will continue to use its strong free cash flow to deliver shareholder value through actions such as our recent 30% dividend increase and the continuation of our share repurchase program.  Since reinstating dividends in 2006, Kroger has increased the dividend each year and expects to continue to do so, while achieving a leverage ratio that will permit it to maintain its current debt rating.
 
Our ability to increase return on invested capital, achieve identical supermarket sales and earnings growth and earnings per share goals, as well as the timing that those earnings occur within the year, may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including nontraditional competitors, the aggressiveness of competition, and our response to these activities; unexpected changes in product costs; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; the success of our Customer 1
st
 Strategy; the extent to which our customers exercise caution in their purchasing behavior in response to economic conditions as well as fuel and food prices; the number of shares outstanding; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; changes in government funded benefit programs; volatility in our fuel margins; the effect of fuel costs on consumer spending; the effect of prescription drugs going off patent has on our sales and earnings; our expectations regarding our ability to continue to obtain additional pharmacy sales from third party payors such as Express Scripts; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel.  In addition, any delays in opening new stores, failure to achieve tonnage growth, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase identical supermarket sales, also could be adversely affected by increased competition, and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products, and the effect that increased numbers of generic pharmaceuticals, which generally carry lower retail prices than brands, have on our sales.  Earnings and sales also may be affected by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters particularly to the extent that these disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability or increases in the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to our various operations, including the cost of transportation; and the benefits that we receive from the consolidation of the UFCW pension
plans.  Our guidance for LIFO is based on our forecast of cost changes for products in our inventory. Our estimate of product cost changes could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control. Our non-fuel FIFO operating margin guidance could change if we are unable to pass on any cost increases, if our strategies fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated, or if changes in the cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differ from our expectations.  Our LIFO charge and the timing of our recognition of LIFO expense will be affected by changes in product costs during the year.  Our earnings per share results also will be affected by our ability to improve our operating results and our ability to repurchase shares under our repurchase program as expected.  Our capital expenditures, our plan to increase capital expenditures, the number of projects that we complete could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs vary from those budgeted; our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or within the time frame projected; or if current operating conditions fail to improve, or worsen.  Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Our plans to use cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures, repurchase shares, pay dividends to shareholders, increase dividends over time, and maintain our current debt rating will depend on our ability to generate free cash flow and otherwise to have cash on hand, which will be affected by all of the factors identified above, as well as the extent to which funds can be used for those reasons while maintaining our debt rating. Our objective to maintain a particular net total debt to EBITDA ratio will be affected by unanticipated increases in net total debt, our inability to generate free cash flow at the levels anticipated, and our failure to generate expected earnings and the extent to which that ratio will support our current debt rating depends on how the rating agencies view our overall financial condition.  Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Should asset values in the multi-employer pension funds deteriorate, if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our contributions and pension expense could increase more than we have anticipated. Likewise, if health care expenses continue to grow at a faster pace than expected, our incremental cost for those expenses will exceed our expectations.  The actual amount of cash contributions to our 401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of employees who participate and the level of their participation.  Long term earnings per share growth and total shareholder return, increasing dividend over time, and our ability to reward shareholders through increased earnings per share,  quarterly dividends, and share repurchases, will be affected by all of the factors identified above, as well as the ability for the company to pay dividends from free cash flow as contemplated.  Our ability to expand non-fuel FIFO operating margin slightly compared to 2011 could be affected by all of the factors outlined above that could cause us to fail to achieve our expected earnings and earnings per share growth.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
                                          
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
           
Exhibits
.
 
99.1
                                            
Earnings release for third quarter 2012, filed herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
CINCINNATI, Ohio, November 29, 2012  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today reported net earnings of $0.60 per diluted share for the third quarter, which ended November 3, 2012. This includes a $0.14 per diluted share benefit from
a settlement with Visa and MasterCard and from a reduction in the company's obligation to fund the UFCW consolidated pension fund created in January.
 
Excluding the benefit of these two items, Kroger's adjusted earnings per diluted share was a record $0.46 for the quarter
. The company believes the adjusted earnings figure presents a more accurate year-over-year comparison of its financial results because the two items were not the result of our normal operations.
 
Identical supermarket sales growth, without fuel, was 3.2% in the third quarter. Other highlights of the quarter include:
 
                 
Achieved 36
th
 consecutive quarter of positive identical supermarket sales
 
                 
Increased adjusted FIFO operating profit $29 million for the third quarter, including fuel, compared to last year and GAAP FIFO operating profit increased $144 million
 
                 
Improved tonnage  highest increase in unit movement since the second quarter of 2010
 
                 
Raised adjusted earnings per diluted share guidance for the fiscal year
 
"Kroger achieved our growth objectives for the quarter, including positive identical supermarket sales, operating profit growth and outstanding tonnage growth," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's
 
chairman and chief executive officer. "This quarter illustrates that the strength of our core business positions Kroger to accelerate our earnings per share growth."
 
Total sales, including fuel, increased 5.9% to $21.8 billion in the third quarter compared with $20.6 billion for the same period last year. Total sales, excluding fuel, increased 3.7% in the third quarter over the same period last year.
 
Net earnings for the third quarter totaled
$316.5 million, or $0.60 per diluted share. Excluding the $0.14 per share benefit of the two items described above, Kroger's adjusted net earnings for the third quarter totaled $242.4 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. The lower LIFO charge described below benefited this year's third quarter by $0.02 per diluted share. Net earnings in the same period last year were $195.9 million, or $0.33 per diluted share.
 
Details of Third Quarter 2012 Results
 
FIFO gross margin was 20.35% of sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Excluding retail fuel operations, FIFO gross margin decreased 25 basis points from the same period last year.
 
The company recorded a $15.5 million LIFO charge during the quarter compared to a $61.6 million LIFO charge in the same quarter last year. Excluding retail fuel sales, the LIFO charge decreased 28 basis points as a percentage of sales. Kroger reduced its LIFO charge estimate to $125 million for the year from its previous estimate of $150 million, due to lower than anticipated inflation expectations for the year.
 
Operating, general and administrative costs plus rent and depreciation, excluding retail fuel operations and the two adjustment items, declined 21 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
 
Total third quarter FIFO operating profit, excluding the two adjustment items, increased approximately $29 million over the prior year. Excluding fuel and the two adjustment items, on a rolling four quarters basis, the company's FIFO operating margin was 7 basis points lower compared to last year. Kroger expects to have a slightly higher FIFO operating margin rate, excluding fuel, for the full 2012 fiscal year, in line with our commitment to grow the rate slightly over time on a rolling four quarters basis.
 
Financial Strategy
 
Kroger's strong financial position has allowed the company to return more than $1.7 billion to shareholders through share buybacks and dividends over the last four quarters. During the third quarter, Kroger repurchased 14.5 million common shares for a total investment of $333 million.
 
Capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities, totaled $473.5 million for the third quarter, compared to $497.0 million for the same period last year.
 
Kroger recently began reporting return on invested capital, or ROIC, results on a quarterly basis. ROIC in the third quarter was 13.3%, compared to 13.5% during the same period last year.
 
Net total debt was $8.7 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion from a year ago. On a rolling four quarters basis, Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.08 compared to 1.89 during the same period last year.
 
Fiscal 2012 Guidance
 
Kroger raised its diluted earnings per share guidance, excluding the two adjustment items, to $2.44 to $2.46 for the full year, up from the previous guidance range of $2.35 to $2.42. In the
 
fourth quarter, the company expects identical supermarket sales growth between 3.0% and 3.5%, excluding fuel.
 
"Kroger's proven Customer 1st Strategy continues to increase customer loyalty, identical supermarket sales and market share. With that foundation firmly in place, we are focused on deploying capital to further accelerate growth and improve ROIC." Mr. Dillon said. "We are committed to delivering shareholder value through stronger earnings per share growth, higher dividends and stock buybacks."
 
Kroger, one of the world's largest retailers, employs more than 339,000 associates who serve customers in 2,422 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, City Market, Dillons, Jay C, Food 4 Less, Fred Meyer, Fry's, King Soopers, QFC, Ralphs and Smith's. The company also operates 790 convenience stores, 344 fine jewelry stores, 1,141 supermarket fuel centers and 37 food processing plants in the U.S. Recognized by Forbes as the most generous company in America, Kroger supports hunger relief, breast cancer awareness, the military and their families, and more than 30,000 schools and grassroots organizations. Kroger contributes food and funds equal to 160 million meals a year through more than 80 Feeding America food bank partners. A leader in supplier diversity, Kroger is a proud member of the and the U.S. Hispanic Chamber's .
Billion Dollar Roundtable
Million Dollar Club
 
Note: Fuel sales have historically had a low FIFO gross margin rate and OG&A rate as compared to corresponding rates on non-fuel sales. As a result Kroger discusses the changes in these rates excluding the effect of retail fuel operations.
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. These statements are indicated by words such as "expects" and "guidance." Aggressive competition, economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel and increase customer loyalty, the impact of fuel costs on consumer spending, and labor disputes, particularly as the company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per
 
share, and our ability to continue to create value for shareholders. Earnings per share also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and volatility in the company's fuel margins. Earnings and sales also may be affected by adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, particularly to the extent that these disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability or increases in the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to our various operations, including the cost of transportation. Our results also will be affected by rising commodity costs, the inconsistency of the economic recovery, consumer confidence, changes in government-funded benefit programs, and changes in inflation or deflation in product and operating costs, and our ability to implement cost controls. Our FIFO operating margin, excluding fuel, will be affected by changes in product costs during the year, if our estimates of product cost changes or the timing of those changes prove incorrect, and if competitive or other factors cause our margins on product sold to fail to meet our objectives.  These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Note: Kroger's quarterly conference call with investors will be broadcast live online at 10 a.m. (ET) on November 29, 2012 at ir.kroger.com. An on-demand replay of the webcast will be available from approximately 1 p.m. (ET) Thursday, November 29 through Thursday, December 13, 2012.
 
View 3
rd
 Quarter 2012 Reports:
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
SUPPLEMENTAL SALES INFORMATION
RECONCILIATION OF TOTAL DEBT TO NET TOTAL DEBT AND NET EARNINGS ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE KROGER CO. TO EBITDA
 
NET EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE EXCLUDING THE UFCW CONSOLIDATED PENSION PLAN LIABILITY AND CREDIT CARD SETTLEMENT ADJUSTMENTS
RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL
 
Kroger Contacts:
 
Media: Keith Dailey (513) 762-1304
Investors: Cindy Holmes (513) 762-4969
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.  Certain per share amounts and percentages may not sum due to rounding.
 
Note:  The Company defines FIFO gross margin, as described in the earnings release, as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the Last-In First-Out (LIFO) charge.  This measure is included to reflect trends in current cost of product.
 
(a)
                                
Merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses exclude depreciation and amortization expense and rent expense which are included in separate expense lines.
 
(b)
                                
LIFO charges of $15.5 and $61.6 were recorded in the third quarters of 2012 and 2011, respectively.  For the year to date period, LIFO charges of $96.2 and $142.3 were recorded for 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Items identified below should not be considered as alternatives to sales or any other GAAP measure of performance.  Identical supermarket sales is an industry-specific measure and it is important to review it in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies in our industry may calculate identical sales differently than Kroger does, limiting the comparability of the measure.
 
 
 
(a)
        
Kroger defines a supermarket as identical when it has been open without expansion or relocation for five full quarters.
 
 
The items identified below should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance or access to liquidity.  The items below are a primary component of determining compliance with the financial covenants under the Company's credit facility and management believes that they are an important measure of access to liquidity.  The items below should be reviewed in conjunction with Kroger's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of total debt to net total debt and compares the balance in the third quarter of 2012 to the balance in the third quarter of 2011.
 
 
The following table provides a reconciliation from net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. to EBITDA, as defined in the Company's credit agreement ("EBITDA"), on a rolling four quarters basis.
 
 
Items identified in this table should not be considered alternatives to net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. or any other GAAP measure of performance.  These items should not be reviewed in isolation or considered substitutes of the Company's financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP.  Due to the nature of these items, as further described below, it is important to identify these items and to review them in conjunction with the Company's financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table summarizes items that affected the Company's financial results during the periods presented.  These items include a reduction to the Company's UFCW consolidated pension plan liability and the receipt of a credit card litigation settlement payment.
 
 
(a)
        
For the third quarter and the year-to-date period of 2012, the pre-tax UFCW consolidated pension plan liability and credit card settlement adjustments were $114.9.
 
 
Return on invested capital should not be considered an alternative to any GAAP measure of performance.  Return on invested capital is an important measure used by management to evaluate our investment returns on capital and our effectiveness of deploying our assets.  Return on invested capital should not be reviewed in isolation or considered as a substitute for our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP.  Other companies may calculate return on invested capital differently than Kroger, limiting the comparability of the measure.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of return on invested capital for the rolling four quarters ended November 3, 2012 and November 5, 2011.
 
 
(a)
        
Represents results for the rolling four quarters ended for the periods noted.
 
(b)
        
Represents the average of amounts at beginning and end of four quarter period presented.
 
(c)
         
Taxes receivable is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in receivables.
 
(d)
        
LIFO reserve is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in inventories.
 
(e)
         
The calculation of average other current liabilities excludes accrued income taxes.
 


