FILE:KR/KR-8K-20121016123410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
Item 7.01
               
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
In connection with its Investor Conference held on October 16, 2012, The Kroger Co. provides, and files herewith, the following current quarter update and updated guidance regarding its growth strategy, and reconfirms 2012 annual guidance:
 
Current quarter update:
 
Same store sales and tonnage trends for the third quarter are slightly higher now than when we made our second quarter earnings release on September 7, 2012.  This level of sales and tonnage was contemplated when we raised our earnings per share guidance at that time.  As a result, we reconfirm for fiscal 2012 our identical sales guidance of approximately 3.0 to 3.5% and EPS guidance of $2.35 to $2.42.
 
2012 Guidance
:
 
 
 
Growth Strategy
:
 
To support its growth strategy, Kroger expects to increase capital spending by an incremental $200 million annually and increase return on invested capital.  Kroger raised its long term, fully-diluted earnings per share growth target from 6 to 8 percent to 8 to 11 percent, plus a current dividend of 2.5%.  Kroger will continue to use its strong free cash flow to deliver shareholder value through actions such as our recent 30% dividend increase and the continuation of our substantial share repurchase program.  Since reinstating dividends in 2006, Kroger has increased the dividend each year and expects to continue to do so, while achieving a leverage ratio that will permit it to maintain its current debt rating.
 
Our ability to increase return on invested capital, achieve identical supermarket sales and earnings growth and earnings per share goals, as well as the timing that those earnings occur within the year, may be affected by: labor disputes, particularly as the Company seeks to manage health care and pension costs; industry consolidation; pricing and promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including nontraditional competitors, the aggressiveness of competition, and our response to these activities; unexpected changes in product costs; the state of the economy, including interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain commodities; the success of our Customer 1
st
 Strategy; the extent to which our customers exercise caution in their purchasing behavior in response to economic conditions as well as rising fuel and food prices; the number of shares outstanding; the success of our future growth plans; goodwill impairment; changes in government funded benefit programs; volatility in our fuel margins; increased fuel costs and the effect those increases have on consumer spending; the effect of prescription drugs going off patent has on our  sales and earnings; our expectations regarding our ability to continue to obtain additional pharmacy  sales from third party payors such as Express Scripts; and our ability to generate sales at desirable margins, as well as the success of our programs designed to increase our identical sales without fuel.  In addition, any delays in opening new stores, failure to achieve tonnage growth, or changes in the economic climate, could cause us to fall short of our sales and earnings targets.  Our ability to increase
 
identical supermarket sales, also could be adversely affected by increased competition, and sales shifts to other stores that we operate, as well as increases in sales of our corporate brand products, and the effect that increased numbers of generic pharmaceuticals, which generally carry lower retail prices than brands, have on our sales.  Earnings and sales also may be affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly to the extent that hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and other conditions disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability or increases in the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to our various operations, including the cost of transportation; and the benefits that we receive from the consolidation of the UFCW pension plans.  Our guidance for LIFO is based on our forecast of cost changes for products in our inventory. Our estimate of product cost changes could be affected by general economic conditions, weather, availability of raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging, and other factors beyond our control. Our non-fuel FIFO operating margin guidance could change if we are unable to pass on any cost increases, if our strategies fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated, or if changes in the cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differ from our expectations.  Our LIFO charge and the timing of our recognition of LIFO expense will be affected by changes in product costs during the year.  Our earnings per share results also will be affected by our ability to improve our operating results and our ability to repurchase shares under our repurchase program as expected.  Our capital expenditures, our plan to increase capital expenditures, and the number of projects that we complete, could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs vary from those budgeted; our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or within the time frame projected; or if current operating conditions fail to improve, or worsen.  Square footage growth during the year is dependent upon our ability to acquire desirable sites for construction of new facilities, as well as the timing of completion of projects.  Our plans to use cash flow from operations to fund capital expenditures, repurchase shares, pay dividends to shareholders, and maintain our current debt rating will depend on our ability to generate free cash flow and otherwise to have cash on hand, which will be affected by all of the factors identified above, as well as the extent to which funds can be used for those reasons while maintaining our debt rating.   Any change in tax laws, the regulations related thereto, the applicable accounting rules or standards, or the interpretation thereof by federal, state or local authorities could affect our expected tax rate. Should asset values in the multi-employer pension funds deteriorate, if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our contributions and pension expense could increase more than we have anticipated. Likewise, if health care expenses continue to grow at a faster pace than expected, our incremental cost for those expenses will exceed our expectations.  The actual amount of cash contributions to our 401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of employees who participate and the level of their participation.  Long term earnings per share growth and total shareholder return, and our ability to reward shareholders through increased earnings per share,  quarterly dividends, and share repurchases, will be affected by all of the factors identified  above, as well as the ability for the company to pay dividends from free cash flow as contemplated.  Our ability to expand non-fuel FIFO operating margin slightly compared to 2011 could be affected by all of the factors outlined above that could cause us to fail to achieve our expected earnings and earnings per share growth.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01
               
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
   
Exhibits
.
 
99.1
               
Press release dated October 16, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CINCINNATI, Ohio, October 16, 2012  The Kroger Co. (NYSE: KR) today unveiled its long-term strategy for enhanced growth at its investor conference in New York.  Building on strong momentum from its proven Customer 1
st
 strategy, the company said it will invest in a targeted expansion strategy to increase square footage and store penetration in existing markets and enter new markets.
 
Kroger raised its long term, fully-diluted earnings per share growth target from 6 to 8 percent to 8 to 11 percent, plus a current dividend of 2.5 percent. To support its growth strategy, Kroger expects to increase capital spending by an incremental $200 million annually and increase return on invested capital.
 
Also today, Kroger's Board of Directors today approved a $500 million share repurchase program, replacing the existing authorization that had approximately $340 million remaining.
 
Kroger to Accelerate Growth
 
During the conference, Kroger's leadership highlighted the significant opportunities the company sees across the broad food retailing market, which extends beyond traditional supermarkets and includes discount stores, drug stores, restaurants and many others.
 
"Our proven strategy and market position provide a tremendous platform to accelerate growth and increase value creation for Kroger shareholders," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's chairman and chief executive officer.  "We are confident that Kroger's unmatched knowledge of the customer and disciplined approach to deploying capital will drive growth at attractive levels of return. We will continue to use our strong free cash flow to deliver shareholder value through actions such as our recent 30 percent dividend increase and the continuation of our substantial share repurchase program."
 
During the past five years, Kroger's customer-centric strategy has resulted in a 200 basis point increase in market share  defined as overall share of the products Kroger sells in the markets where the company operates  to 21.1 percent, according to Nielsen Homescan data. Today, nearly half of all U.S. households hold a Kroger loyalty card, and that figure increases to 85 percent in the markets where Kroger operates. The company has reported an industry-leading 35 consecutive quarters of positive identical store sales.
 
"Even through the worst of the recession, Kroger created 29,000 new jobs during the last five years. We are going to invest to grow and expand our store base, which will create more job opportunities over the next five years, and beyond," Mr. Dillon said.
 
In addition to selectively expanding its store base and the markets it serves, Kroger will also pursue other initiatives to drive growth, including:
 
                 
New customer channels  Enhancing the company's digital and mobile platforms by leveraging its world-class customer insights program.
 
                 
New store formats  Testing new store formats to provide greater access and shopping flexibility to customers.
 
The company will measure its progress across several key performance metrics including return on invested capital (ROIC), identical sales excluding fuel, FIFO operating margin excluding fuel, and market share growth.
 
Kroger also reconfirmed sales and earnings guidance for the current fiscal year today.
 
Kroger, one of the world's largest retailers, employs more than 339,000 associates who serve customers in 2,425 supermarkets and multi-department stores in 31 states under two dozen local banner names including Kroger, City Market, Dillons, Jay C, Food 4 Less, Fred Meyer, Fry's, King Soopers, QFC, Ralphs and Smith's. The company also operates 788 convenience stores, 342 fine jewelry stores, 1,124 supermarket fuel centers and 37 food processing plants in the U.S. Recognized by Forbes as the most generous company in America, Kroger supports hunger relief, breast cancer awareness, the military and their families, and more than 30,000 schools and grassroots organizations. Kroger contributes food and funds equal to 160 million meals a year through more than 80 Feeding America food bank partners. A leader in supplier diversity, Kroger is a proud member of the and the U.S. Hispanic Chamber's .
Billion Dollar Roundtable
Million Dollar Club
 
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about the future performance of the company. These statements are based on management's assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it. These statements are indicated by words such as "expects," "continue," "going to," "target," and "will." Aggressive competition, economic conditions, interest rates, goodwill impairment, the success of programs designed to increase our identical supermarket sales without fuel and increase customer loyalty, the impact of increasing fuel costs on consumer spending, and labor disputes, particularly as the company seeks to manage increases in health care and pension costs, could materially affect our expected identical supermarket sales growth, earnings per share, and our ability to continue to create value for shareholders. Earnings per share also will be affected by the number of shares outstanding and volatility in the company's fuel margins. Earnings and sales also may be affected by adverse weather conditions, particularly to the extent that hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and other conditions disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability
 
or increases in the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to our various operations, including the cost of transportation.  Our results also will be affected by rising commodity costs, the inconsistency of the economic recovery, consumer confidence, changes in government-funded benefit programs, and changes in inflation or deflation in product and operating costs, and our ability to implement cost controls. Our FIFO operating margin, excluding fuel, will be affected by changes in product costs during the year, if our estimates of product cost changes or the timing of those changes prove incorrect, and if competitive or other factors cause our margins on product sold to fail to meet our objectives.  Our ability to increase capital spending depends on our ability to generate free cash flow and otherwise to have cash on hand, which will be affected by all of the factors identified above, as well as the extent to which funds can be used for this reason  while maintaining our debt rating.  Our ability to invest in targeted expansion, increase square footage and store penetration in existing markets, enter new markets, create jobs and develop new formats could vary from our expectations if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores; development costs vary from those budgeted; our logistics and technology or store projects are not completed on budget or within the time frame projected; or if current operating conditions worsen. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update the information contained herein. Please refer to Kroger's reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties.
 
Kroger Contacts:
 
Media: Keith Dailey (513) 762-1304
 
Investors: Cindy Holmes (513) 762-4969


