FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20041020171711.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On October 15, 2004, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("we" or the "Company") entered into an outsourcing agreement with International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"). Under the terms of the agreement, we will transition certain portions of our data acquisition and delivery, customer service, and financial processes to IBM. By establishing this relationship with IBM, the Company expects to:
     The agreement has a seven-year term that is valued at approximately $180 million. In addition, we can terminate at our discretion, subject to payment of termination fees that decline over the term, or for cause.
     Under the agreement, IBM will provide inbound call center activities (for example, receipt of customer service telephone calls), outbound call center activities (for example, the gathering of information used to populate our databases of business information), automated and manual data entry functions, certain custom product fulfillment activities, accounts payable services, travel and expense reimbursement, cash applications services, and collections activities. The transaction will be implemented through regional agreements that provide for services to our North American and the European markets of our International segment. In Europe, this agreement is subject to meeting customary local employment requirements.
     The services included within the scope of the transaction will be migrated to IBM over a period of approximately one year through a process including formal training, on-the-job training, and shadowing of activities by the Company. As a result of this decision, the Company expects 750 positions globally to be eliminated, of which approximately 220 team members will transfer to IBM and will be placed there for at least one year, with the opportunity to pursue available positions within IBM. Team members not transferring to IBM will continue in their roles with D&B for a period of approximately three to six months. The Company will provide a severance and benefits package, and professional and personal support through on-site outplacement services as they transition out of the business, or work with them to explore other opportunities within D&B.
     In addition to providing the outsourcing services under the agreement described above, IBM purchases services from us. In 2003, IBM purchases from D&B accounted for less than 1% of our total revenues.
     As required, we will file a copy of the outsourcing agreement as an exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     We are furnishing this Current Report on Form 8-K and the earnings press release attached hereto insofar as they disclose historical information regarding our results of operations or financial condition for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004.
Table of Contents
     On October 20, 2004, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, with the exception of the information provided pursuant to Item 1.01, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. Except for the information provided pursuant to Item 1.01, the information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)    Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
D&B Announces Strong Third Quarter Results and Confirms Guidance
Short Hills, NJ October 20, 2004  D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools, and insight today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004.
"As we continue to transform D&B, this quarter's progress clearly demonstrates that our Blueprint for Growth strategy is working," said Allan Loren, chairman and chief executive officer of D&B. "By focusing on improving our leadership, and in particular leading through change, we have been able to continually meet our shareholder commitments. The progress we experienced this quarter was made possible by the dedication of our team members worldwide who are committed to creating value for customers and shareholders alike."
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2004 Results
The Company reported diluted earnings per share for the quarter, before non-core gains and charges, of 65 cents, up 20 percent from 54 cents in the prior year quarter. On a GAAP basis, diluted earnings per share were 65 cents, up 71 percent from 38 cents in the prior year quarter. See attached Schedule 3 for a reconciliation of earnings per share before non-core gains and charges to earnings per share on a GAAP basis.
for the quarter was $333.2 million, a 9 percent increase compared with the prior year quarter. Core revenue was up 8 percent before the effect of foreign exchange with all of the increase due to organic growth.
Core revenue
"Our DUNSRight quality process, which powers our portfolio of customer solution sets, provides our customers with unparalleled business insight, so they can make confident business decisions," said Steve Alesio, president and chief operating officer. "The power of DUNSRight combined with our team members' leadership enabled us to deliver our fifth consecutive quarter of organic revenue growth."
Core revenue results reflected the following by product line:
See attached Schedule 4 for further details on revenue by product line.
for the quarter, which included the results of divested businesses, was $333.2 million. This result was flat compared to total revenue in the year ago quarter and down 2 percent before the effect of foreign exchange, as 2003 revenue
Total revenue
 
D&B 2/10
 
 
 
 
included $27.9 million of revenue from businesses that were divested over the past year. See attached Schedule 2 for a reconciliation of core and total revenue.
for the third quarter was $75.6 million, up 9 percent from the year ago period, before non-core charges in both years. Both the North America and International segments contributed to the growth in operating income. These increases were partially off-set by investments in both re-engineering and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.
Operating income
On a GAAP basis, operating income was $72.9 million, up 35 percent compared with $54.1 million in the same period last year. See attached Schedule 3 for a reconciliation of operating income before non-core gains and charges to operating income on a GAAP basis.
for the quarter was $47.1 million, up 14 percent from $41.3 million in the prior-year period, before non-core gains and charges in both years. On a GAAP basis, net income was $47.5 million, up 65 percent compared with $28.8 million in the third quarter of 2003. See attached Schedule 3 for a reconciliation of net income before non-core gains and charges to net income on a GAAP basis.
Net income
for the first nine months of 2004 was $154.7 million, up 13 percent from the first nine months of 2003. Net cash flow provided by operating activities was $174.3 million for the first nine months of 2004, up 12 percent.
Free cash flow
Free-cash flow for the first nine months of 2003 included $14 million of one-time benefits, consisting of $7 million of insurance proceeds related to the World Trade Center tragedy and a $7 million tax refund related to the spin-off of RH Donnelly in 1998.
The Company ended the quarter with $193.8 million of cash and cash equivalents. See attached Schedule 4 for a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities.
under the Company's $200 million share repurchase program totaled $53.2 million during the quarter. Year-to-date, the Company has purchased $140.7 million and as previously announced, expects to complete this program by year end.
Share repurchases
 
D&B 3/10
 
 
 
 
was 81 percent at the end of September 2004. This was up from 80 percent at the end of June 2004 and 76 percent at the end of 2003.
Web revenue
Third Quarter 2004 Segment Results
North America
for the third quarter was $247.8 million, up 8 percent from $229.2 million in the prior year quarter. North America's revenue results included:
Total and core revenue
See attached Schedule 5 for details of revenue by product line.
for the quarter was $82.4 million, up 9 percent from $75.3 million in the prior year quarter. The increase was primarily due to the increased revenue.
Operating income
International
for the third quarter was $85.4 million, up 14 percent from $75.2 million in the prior year quarter, and up 6 percent before the effect of foreign exchange. These International revenue results included:
Core revenue
See attached Schedule 5 for further details on revenue by product line.
 
D&B 4/10
 
 
 
 
for the quarter was $85.4 million, a 17 percent decrease from total revenue in the prior year quarter (down 23 percent before the effect of foreign exchange). Third quarter 2003 revenue included $27.9 million of revenue from businesses that were divested over the past year.
Total revenue
for the quarter was $12.1 million, up 13 percent from $10.8 million in the prior year quarter. This improvement in profitability was primarily due to a lower expense base associated with the Company's Financial Flexibility program.
Operating income
Financial Flexibility Initiatives
The Company continues to leverage its financially flexible business model to fund investments for growth and to create shareholder value through its process of continuous reengineering.
In April of this year, the Company outlined its financial flexibility initiatives for 2004. At that time, the Company announced that on an annualized basis, the financial flexibility initiatives for 2004 are expected to create approximately $80 million of savings, of which approximately $50 million will be generated this year. To implement these initiatives, the Company expects to incur transition costs of approximately $22 million. In addition, the Company expects to incur non-core charges totaling approximately $30 to $35 million pre-tax, primarily for severance and termination costs in 2004.
In conjunction with these initiatives, the Company announced today plans to outsource certain portions of its data acquisition and delivery, customer service, and financial processes to International Business Machines Corporation (IBM). By establishing this relationship with IBM, the Company expects to:
As a result of this decision, the Company expects 750 positions globally to be eliminated, of which approximately 220 team members will transfer to IBM and will
 
D&B 5/10
 
 
 
 
be placed there for at least one year, with the opportunity to pursue available positions within IBM.
Team members not transferring to IBM will continue in their roles with D&B for a period of approximately three to six months. The Company will provide a severance and benefits package, and professional and personal support through on-site outplacement services as they transition out of the business, or work with them to explore other opportunities within D&B.
Continuous reengineering is an integral part of our financially flexible business model, which enables us to invest for growth and create shareholder value," said Loren. "While these initiatives will improve the performance of our business, we recognize this means change for our team members and we are committed to providing them with the help and support they need during the transition."
"
For a more detailed discussion of this outsourcing plan, please see the Company's Form 8K, filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Non-Core Gains and Charges
During the quarter, the Company recorded net pre-tax, non-core charges of $1.9 million as compared to net pre-tax non-core charges of $15.4 million in the third quarter of 2003.
The net, non-core charges in the third quarter of 2004 included a pre-tax, non-core charge of $2.7 million related to its financial flexibility initiatives in the third quarter of 2004, which was recorded within operating income as Corporate and other expense, and a pre-tax, non-core gain of $0.8 million, within Non-Operating Income (Expense)-Net, to reduce the second quarter of 2004 impairment charge, reflecting the fair market value of the Company's Iberian operations at the end of the third quarter.
In the third quarter of 2003, the Company recorded pre-tax, non-core charges of $1.6 million related to the fourth phase of its financial flexibility initiatives and a $13.8 million non-core charge related to the monetization of real estate. The charges were recorded within operating income as corporate and other expense.
D&B's restructuring charges may be viewed as recurring as they are part of each phase of its financial flexibility initiatives. In addition to reporting GAAP results, the
 
D&B 6/10
 
 
 
 
Company reports results before restructuring charges and other non-core gains and charges because they are not a component of its ongoing income or expense and may have a disproportional positive or negative impact on the results of its ongoing underlying business operations. See section entitled "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures".
Confirms Full Year 2004 Outlook
The Company confirmed the following guidance:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
D&B reports non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and the Schedules attached. D&B reports core revenue and core revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange, organic revenue growth and each of operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share before non-core gains and charges, and free cash flow. Please see the Company's Form 8-K filed July 19, 2004 with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of how the Company defines these measures, why it uses them and why it believes they provide useful information to investors.
 
D&B 7/10
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Teleconference
D&B will review its third quarter financial results and 2004 outlook in a conference call with the investment community on Thursday, October 21, 2004, at 11:00 a.m. EDT. The live audio, as well as a replay of the conference call and other related information, can be accessed on D&B's Investor Relations Web site at http://investor.dnb.com.
A replay of the conference call will be available within 24 hours of the conclusion of the call at http://investor.dnb.com.
 
About D&B
D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools, and insight, has enabled customers to for over 160 years. D&B's proprietary DUNSRight  quality process provides customers with quality information whenever and wherever they need it. This quality information is the foundation of D&B's solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions to mitigate risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability, D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions to increase revenue from new and existing customers, and D&B Supply Management Solutions to identify purchasing savings, manage risk and ensure compliance within the supply base. D&B's E-Business Solutions help customers convert prospects to clients faster. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
Decide with Confidence
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
The section entitled "Full Year 2004 Outlook" of this press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
D&B 8/10
 
Demand for D&B's products is subject to intense competition, changes in customer preferences and, to a lesser extent, economic conditions which impact customer behavior. The Company's results are also dependent upon its continued ability to:
The Company is also subject to the effects of foreign economies, exchange rate fluctuations and U.S. and foreign legislative or regulatory requirements. Its results are also dependent upon the availability of data from its database and the ability of its strategic partners to fulfill their contractual obligations to satisfy the Company's customers and promote and protect the D&B brand. In addition, the Company's ability to repurchase shares is subject to market conditions, including trading volume in the Company's stock. Developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from those that have been or may be projected. The Company's projection for free cash flow in 2004 is dependent upon the Company's ability to generate revenue, the Company's collection processes, customer payment patterns and the amount and timing of payments related to tax matters and legal proceedings involving the Company as more fully described in the Company's filings with the SEC.
 
D&B 9/10
 
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, including the section entitled "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A")," and the subsection entitled "Trends, Risks and Uncertainties" in the MD&A. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K are available on its web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. D&B cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
 
D&B 10/10
 
Schedule 1
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Consolidated Statement of Operations 
(unaudited)
As Reported
See Schedule 3 (Notes to Schedules), which is an integral part of the consolidated statement of operations.
AFX  After Effects of Foreign Exchange BFX  Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Schedule 2
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Consolidated Statement of Operations
(unaudited) 
Before Non-Core Gains and Charges
See Schedule 3 (Notes to Schedules), which is an integral part of the consolidated statement of operations.
AFX  After Effects of Foreign Exchange BFX  Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
Non-Core Gains and Charges  For internal management purposes, we treat certain pre-tax gains and charges which are included in "Corporate and Other" and "Other Income (Expense)  Net" as non-core gains and charges. These non-core gains and charges are summarized in Schedule 3. We exclude non-core gains and charges when evaluating our financial performance because they are not a component of our ongoing income or expense and may have a disproportional positive or negative impact on the results of our ongoing underlying business operations.
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Schedule 3
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Notes to Schedules 1 and 2 (unaudited)
 
Schedule 3
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Notes to Schedules 1 and 2 (unaudited)
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Schedule 4
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Supplemental Financial Data (unaudited)
 
Schedule 4
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Supplemental Financial Data (unaudited)
AFX  After Effects of Foreign Exchange BFX  Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Schedule 5
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Revenue Reconciliation and Detail Quarter Ended September 30, 2004
AFX  After
Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX 
Before Effects of Foreign Exchange


