FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20041207174122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On December 7, 2004, the Board of Directors of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation ("we" or the "Company") authorized and approved the Company's 2005 non-employee director compensation program. The details of that program, as well as the 2004 program, are summarized on Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K. The equity-related components of both programs are issued pursuant to the 2000 Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan which was previously adopted and filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K on February 22, 2001.
     Both the 2005 and 2004 program include the payment of restricted share unit awards to our non-employee directors, and the form of agreement for those awards is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On December 6, 2004, Christopher J. Coughlin was appointed to serve on the Company's Board of Directors and the Company issued a press release announcing that appointment. Also, on December 6, 2004, the appointment of James N. Fernandez to the Company's Board of Directors became effective. There is no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which either Mr. Coughlin or Mr. Fernandez was selected as a director, and the Company has no related party transactions with Mr. Coughlin or Mr. Fernandez. The Board of Directors has determined that each of Mr. Coughlin and Mr. Fernandez will be a member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and that they are each an "audit committee financial expert," as such term is defined in Item 401(h) of Regulation S-K, promulgated by the Securities Exchange Commission. A copy of the December 7, 2004 press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATE: December 7, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
      Payable in equal semi-annual installments on the first business day in March and July of each year. Cash may be deferred pursuant to The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Directors' Compensation Plan. Cash may be converted into restricted share units the shares underlying which have a fair market value of 110% of the retainer.
1
      Payable in equal semi-annual installments on the first business day in March and July of each year. Represents the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock on the earlier of the third anniversary of the date of grant and the date on which the director ceases to perform services as a director of the Company. Restricted share units may be deferred pursuant to the terms of the applicable Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement.
2
      Vesting requirements are determined by the Company's Board of Directors.
3

 
Exhibit 10.2
:
Date of the Award
:
Participant
:
Number of Restricted Share Units Awarded
     1. Grant of Restricted Share Units. Subject to the terms and conditions of the 2000 Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Nonemployee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and the additional terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (the "Company") hereby grants to the Participant named above an award of the number of restricted share units (RSUs) set forth above. Each RSU represents the right to receive a share of the Company's common stock ("Share") upon the earlier of (a) the third anniversary of the Date of the Award set forth above or (b) termination of the Participant's service as a director of the Company for any reason. At least thirteen months prior to the third anniversary of the Date of the Award, the Participant may elect, in writing, to defer the receipt of Shares until termination of the Participant's service as director of the Company for any reason.
     2. Dividend Equivalents. In the event that a dividend is paid on Shares, an amount equal to such dividend shall be credited for the benefit of the Participant based on the number of RSUs credited to the Participant on the dividend record date, and shall be expressed as an additional amount of RSUs, such amount to be calculated based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of a Share on the dividend payment date.
     3. Rights as a Stockholder. The Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder until the Participant has received a Share certificate in respect of his or her RSUs pursuant to Section 1 hereof.
     4. Restrictions on Certificates. The certificates delivered to the Participant as contemplated by Section 3 above shall be subject to such restrictions as the Board may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares are listed, and any applicable Federal or state laws.
     5. Transferability. The RSUs are not transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
     6. Change in Capitalization. In the event of a change in the outstanding Shares of the Company, the RSUs shall be treated as set forth in the Plan.
     7. Securities Laws. The granting of RSUs hereunder shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals of any governmental agencies as may be required.
     8. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the law of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
 
2
     9. Restricted Share Unit Award Subject to Plan. This Award shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan. In the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall control.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Agreement as of the date set forth above.

 
Exhibit 99.1
D&B Elects Christopher Coughlin to its Board of Directors
 D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools and insight, today announced that Christopher J. Coughlin, chief operating officer of The Interpublic Group of Companies (NYSE: IPG) has been elected to D&B's board of directors, effective December 6, 2004.
Short Hills, N.J.  December 7, 2004
The appointment of Coughlin expands D&B's board of directors to ten members, including eight independent directors and Allan Z. Loren, chairman and chief executive officer and Steven W. Alesio, president and chief operating officer, both of D&B. Coughlin will serve on the board's Audit Committee.
"Christopher has a proven record of successfully guiding companies through growth and transformation, which will be a tremendous asset to D&B as we build on the accomplishments of our Blueprint for Growth," Loren said. "We're confident that Christopher's experience and financial expertise will prove invaluable to the company and our leadership as we work to increase shareholder value and focus on delivering unparalleled business insight to our customers."
Coughlin, 52, has served as chief operating officer of The Interpublic Group since May 2003 and was the company's chief financial officer from July 2003 to June 2004. He will be retiring from his current position at Interpublic this month. He joined Interpublic from the Pharmacia Corporation, where he held the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Coughlin held the same position at Nabisco Holdings, where he also served as President of Nabisco International.
 
About D&B
D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools and insight, has enabled customers to Decide with Confidence for over 160 years. D&B's proprietary DUNSRight process provides customers with quality information whenever and wherever they need it. This quality information is the foundation of D&B's solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions to mitigate risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability, D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions to increase revenue from new and existing customers, and D&B Supply Management Solutions to identify purchasing savings, manage risk and ensure compliance within the supply base. D&B's E-Business Solutions help customers convert prospects to clients faster. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.


