FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20050509142437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     At the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 3, 2005, shareholders voted upon and approved the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated May 3, 2005) (the "SIP") and an amendment to the 2000 Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan (as amended May 3, 2005) (the "DSIP" and, together with the SIP, the "Plans").
     The Plans were amended to allow the Company to continue to grant other stock-based awards (as described in the Plans) under the Company's current long-term incentive program for key employees and non-employee directors. The amendments are effective with respect to all awards granted after the date of the shareholders meeting and, in the case of the DSIP, result in the non-employee directors receiving 7,402 restricted stock units previously awarded subject to shareholder approval of the DSIP.
     Additional information concerning the amendment to the SIP and the DSIP was "previously reported" (as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) in the Company's definitive proxy statement dated March 24, 2005, relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 3, 2005, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 24, 2005.
     The SIP and the DSIP are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively, and each is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     Effective May 6, 2005, Mr. Tasos Konidaris, 38, who joined the Company on March 7, 2005, as Leader, Finance Operations, has assumed the additional role of the Company's Principal Accounting Officer. Mr. Konidaris will be a member of the Company's Finance & Strategy Leadership Team and will report directly to the Company's Chief Financial Officer ("CFO").
     Mr. Konidaris brings to these roles almost 15 years of experience in both general management and global finance operations, including his most recent role as Group Vice President in the global diversified products group of Schering-Plough Corporation, where he was the operational head of the global division commencing in May 2004. From August 2003 through May 2004, Mr. Konidaris was the Group Vice President  Finance of Schering-Plough's global pharmaceutical group. From August 1998 through July 2003, Mr. Konidaris held numerous positions with Pharmacia Corporation, and most recently served as Vice President  Finance, North America.
     Also effective May 6, 2005, Ms. Mary Jane Raymond, the Company's former Principal Accounting Officer, assumed the newly established position at the Company of Leader of Corporate Risk Management. In this new role, Ms. Raymond will be responsible for leading the Company in proactively identifying and mitigating strategic,
Table of Contents
operational and financial risks across the entire business. The Company believes that the creation of this new position will serve to better protect its Brand by ensuring that the Company maintains a world-class controls environment and complies with all applicable regulations. Ms. Raymond will continue as a member of the Company's Finance & Strategy Leadership Team and will report directly to the CFO.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
1. Purpose of the Plan
     The purpose of the Plan is to aid the Company and its Affiliates in securing and retaining key employees of outstanding ability and to motivate such employees to exert their best efforts on behalf of the Company and its Affiliates by providing incentives through the granting of Awards. The Company expects that it will benefit from the added interest which such key employees will have in the welfare of the Company as a result of their proprietary interest in the Company's success.
2. Definitions
     The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
     (i) any Person (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the
 
Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
     (ii) during any period of twenty-four months (not including any period prior to the Effective Date), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new director (other than (A) a director nominated by a Person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 2(e)(i), (iii) or (iv) of the Plan, (B) a director nominated by any Person (including the Company) who publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions (including, but not limited to, an actual or threatened proxy contest) which if consummated would constitute a Change in Control or (C) a director designated by any Person who is the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's securities) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved in advance by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;
     (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation (A) which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and (B) after which no Person would hold 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company or such surviving entity; or
     (iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
 
 
3. Shares Subject to the Plan
     The total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is 9,700,000. Against the shares remaining in the Plan, awards granted under the Plan (excluding other stock-based awards granted pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan) count as 1 issued share; whereas, other stock-based awards granted pursuant to Section 9 of the amended and restated Plan (approved as of the 2005 Annual Meeting) count as 2.6 issued shares. The maximum number of Shares for which Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted during a calendar year to any Participant shall be 700,000. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or treasury Shares. The issuance of Shares or the payment of cash upon the exercise of an Award shall reduce the total number of Shares available under the Plan, as applicable. Shares which are subject to Awards which terminate or lapse may be granted again under the Plan.
4. Administration
     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part to any subcommittee thereof consisting solely of at least two individuals who are intended to qualify as "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Act (or any successor rule thereto) and "outside directors" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto); , that any action permitted to be taken by the Committee may be taken by the Board, in its discretion. Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made under the Plan in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or its Affiliates or with which the Company or its Affiliates combines. The number of Shares underlying such substitute awards shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable. Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned (including, but not limited to, Participants and their beneficiaries or successors). Determinations made by the Committee under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Participants, whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. The Committee shall require payment of any amount it may determine to be necessary to withhold for federal, state, local or other taxes as a result of the exercise or grant of an Award. Unless the Committee specifies otherwise, the Participant may elect to pay a portion or all of such
provided, however
 
withholding taxes by (a) delivery in Shares or (b) having Shares withheld by the Company from any Shares that would have otherwise been received by the Participant. The number of Shares so delivered or withheld shall have an aggregate Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy the applicable withholding taxes. If the chief executive officer of the Company is a member of the Board, the Board by specific resolution may constitute such chief executive officer as a committee of one which shall have the authority to grant Awards of up to an aggregate of 200,000 Shares in each calendar year to Participants who are not subject to the rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Act (or any successor section thereto); , that such chief executive officer shall notify the Committee of any such grants made pursuant to this Section 4.
provided, however
5. Eligibility
     Key employees (but not members of the Committee or any person who serves only as a director) of the Company and its Affiliates, who are from time to time responsible for the management, growth and protection of the business of the Company and its Affiliates, are eligible to be granted Awards under the Plan. Participants shall be selected from time to time by the Committee, in its sole discretion, from among those eligible, and the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, the number of Shares to be covered by the Awards granted to each Participant.
6. Limitations
     No Award may be granted under the Plan after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, but Awards theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.
7. Terms and Conditions of Options
     Options granted under the Plan shall be, as determined by the Committee, nonqualified, incentive or other stock options for federal income tax purposes, as evidenced by the related Award agreements, and shall be subject to the foregoing and the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Committee shall determine:
     (a) . The Option Price per Share shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date an Option is granted.
Option Price
     (b) . Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee, but in no event shall an Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date it is granted.
Exercisability
     (c) . Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in an Award agreement, an Option may be exercised for all, or from time to time any part, of the Shares for which it is then exercisable. For purposes of Section 7 of the Plan, the exercise date of an Option shall be the later of the date a notice of exercise is received by
Exercise of Options
 
the Company and, if applicable, the date payment is received by the Company pursuant to clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) in the following sentence. The purchase price for the Shares as to which an Option is exercised shall be paid to the Company in full at the time of exercise at the election of the Participant (i) in cash or its equivalent (e.g., by check), (ii) to the extent permitted by the Committee, in Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the aggregate Option Price for the Shares being purchased and satisfying such other requirements as may be imposed by the Committee; provided, that such shares of Common Stock have been held by the Participant for no less than six months (or such other period as established from time to time by the Committee), (iii) partly in cash and, to the extent permitted by the Committee, partly in such Shares, or (iv) through the delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company an amount equal to the aggregate Option Price for the Shares being purchased. No Participant shall have any rights to dividends or other rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares subject to an Option until the occurrence of the exercise date (determined as set forth above) and, if applicable, the satisfaction of any other conditions imposed by the Committee pursuant to the Plan.
     (d) . The Committee may grant Options under the Plan that are intended to be ISOs. Such ISOs shall comply with the requirements of section 422 of the Code (or any successor section thereto). Unless otherwise permitted under section 422 of the Code (or any successor section thereto), no ISO may be granted to any Participant who at the time of such grant, owns more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Subsidiary, unless (i) the Option Price for such ISO is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the ISO is granted and (ii) the date on which such ISO terminates is a date not later than the day preceding the fifth anniversary of the date on which the ISO is granted. Any Participant who disposes of Shares acquired upon the exercise of an ISO either (i) within two years after the date of grant of such ISO or (ii) within one year after the transfer of such Shares to the Participant, shall notify the Company of such disposition and of the amount realized upon such disposition.
ISOs
     (e) . Wherever in this Plan or any agreement evidencing an Award a Participant is permitted to pay the exercise price of an Option or taxes relating to the exercise of an Option by delivering Shares, the Participant may, subject to procedures satisfactory to the Committee, satisfy such delivery requirement by presenting proof of beneficial ownership of such Shares, in which case the Company shall treat the Option as exercised without further payment and shall withhold such number of Shares from the Shares acquired by the exercise of the Option.
Attestation
     (f) . If a Participant's employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates by reason of death or Disability after the first anniversary of the date of grant of an Option, (i) the unexercised portion of such Option shall immediately vest in full and (ii) such portion may thereafter be exercised during the shorter of (A) the remaining stated term of the Option or (B) five years after the date of death or Disability.
Exercisability Upon Termination of Employment by Death or Disability
 
     (g) . If a Participant's employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates by reason of Retirement after the first anniversary of the date of grant of an Option, an unexercised Option may thereafter be exercised during the shorter of (i) the remaining stated term of the Option or (ii) five years after the date of such termination of employment (the "Post-Retirement Exercise Period"), but only to the extent to which such Option was exercisable at the time of such termination of employment or becomes exercisable during the Post-Retirement Exercise Period; , that if a Participant dies within a period of five years after such termination of employment, an unexercised Option may thereafter be exercised, during the shorter of (i) the remaining stated term of the Option or (ii) the period that is the longer of (A) five years after the date of such termination of employment or (B) one year after the date of death (the "Special Exercise Period"), but only to the extent to which such Option was exercisable at the time of such termination of employment or becomes exercisable during the Special Exercise Period.
Exercisability Upon Termination of Employment by Retirement
provided, however
     (h) . If a Participant's employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates (i) for any reason (other than death, Disability or Retirement after the first anniversary of the date of grant of an Option as described above) or (ii) for any reason on or prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant of an Option, an unexercised Option may thereafter be exercised during the period ending 30 days after the date of such termination of employment, but only to the extent to which such Option was exercisable at the time of such termination of employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the vesting of unvested Options held by a Participant if such Participant is terminated from employment without "cause" (as such term is defined by the Committee in its sole discretion) by the Company.
Effect of Other Termination of Employment
     (i) . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7(i), a stock option shall not be transferable by the optionee otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and during the lifetime of an optionee an option shall be exercisable only by the optionee. An option exercisable after the death of an optionee or a transferee pursuant to the following sentence may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the optionee or such transferee. The Committee may, in its discretion, authorize all or a portion of the options previously granted or to be granted to an optionee to be on terms which permit irrevocable transfer for no consideration by such optionee to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, of the optionee, trusts for the exclusive benefit of these persons, and any other entity owned solely by these persons ("Eligible Transferees"), provided that (x) the stock option agreement pursuant to which such options are granted must be approved by the Committee, and must expressly provide for transferability in a manner consistent with this Section and (y) subsequent transfers of transferred options shall be prohibited except those in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 7(i). The Committee may, in its discretion; amend the definition of Eligible Transferees to conform to the coverage rules
Nontransferability of Stock Options
 
of Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933 or any comparable Form from time to time in effect. Following transfer, any such options shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer. The events of termination of service of Sections 7(f), 7(g) and 7(h) hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original optionee, following which the options shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods specified, in Sections 7(f), 7(g) and 7(h). The Committee may delegate to a committee consisting of employees of the Company the authority to authorize transfers, establish terms and conditions upon which transfers may be made and establish classes of options eligible to transfer options, as well as to make other determinations with respect to option transfers.
8. Terms and Conditions of Stock Appreciation Rights
     (a) . The Committee also may grant (i) a Stock Appreciation Right independent of an Option or (ii) a Stock Appreciation Right in connection with an Option, or a portion thereof. A Stock Appreciation Right granted pursuant to clause (ii) of the preceding sentence (A) may be granted at the time the related Option is granted or at any time prior to the exercise or cancellation of the related Option, (B) shall cover the same Shares covered by an Option (or such lesser number of Shares as the Committee may determine) and (C) shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as such Option except for such additional limitations as are contemplated by this Section 8 (or such additional limitations as may be included in an Award agreement).
Grants
     (b) . The exercise price per Share of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be an amount determined by the Committee but in no event shall such amount be less than the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the Stock Appreciation Right is granted or, in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in conjunction with an Option, or a portion thereof, the Option Price of the related Option and (ii) an amount permitted by applicable laws, rules, by-laws or policies of regulatory authorities or stock exchanges. Each Stock Appreciation Right granted independent of an Option shall entitle a Participant upon exercise to an amount equal to (i) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value on the exercise date of one Share over (B) the exercise price per Share, times (ii) the number of Shares covered by the Stock Appreciation Right. Each Stock Appreciation Right granted in conjunction with an Option, or a portion thereof, shall entitle a Participant to surrender to the Company the unexercised Option, or any portion thereof, and to receive from the Company in exchange therefore an amount equal to (i) the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value on the exercise date of one Share over (B) the Option Price per Share, times (ii) the number of Shares covered by the Option, or portion thereof, which is surrendered. The date a notice of exercise is received by the Company shall be the exercise date. Payment shall be made in Shares or in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash, valued at such Fair Market Value, all as shall be determined by the Committee. Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised from time to time upon actual receipt by the Company of written notice of exercise stating the number of Shares with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is being exercised. No fractional
Terms
 
Shares will be issued in payment for Stock Appreciation Rights, but instead cash will be paid for a fraction or, if the Committee should so determine, the number of Shares will be rounded downward to the next whole Share.
     (c) . The Committee may impose, in its discretion, such conditions upon the exercisability or transferability of Stock Appreciation Rights as it may deem fit.
Limitations
     (d) . The Committee may grant LSARs that are exercisable upon the occurrence of specified contingent events. Such LSARs may provide for a different method of determining appreciation, may specify that payment will be made only in cash and may provide that any related Awards are not exercisable while such LSARs are exercisable. Unless the context otherwise requires, whenever the term "Stock Appreciation Right" is used in the Plan, such term shall include LSARs.
Limited Stock Appreciation Rights
9. Other Stock-Based Awards
     (a) . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may grant Awards of Shares, Awards of restricted Shares and Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on the Fair Market Value of, Shares ("Other Stock-Based Awards"). Such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be in such form, and dependent on such conditions, as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, the right to receive one or more Shares (or the equivalent cash value of such Shares) upon the completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event and/or the attainment of performance objectives. Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted alone or in addition to any other Awards granted under the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall determine to whom and when Other Stock-Based Awards will be made; the number of Shares to be awarded under (or otherwise related to) such Other Stock-Based Awards; whether such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be settled in cash, Shares or a combination of cash and Shares; and all other terms and conditions of such Awards (including, without limitation, the vesting provisions thereof). Where the value of an Other Stock-Based Award is based on the Spread Value, the grant or exercise price for such an Award will not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant.
Generally
     (b) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, certain Other Stock-Based Awards granted under this Section 9 may be granted in a manner which is deductible by the Company under section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto) ("Performance-Based Awards"). A Participant's Performance-Based Award shall be determined based on the attainment of written performance goals approved by the Committee for a performance period established by the Committee (i) while the outcome for that performance period is substantially uncertain and (ii) no more than 90 days after the commencement of the performance period to which the
Performance-Based Awards
 
performance goal relates or, if less, the number of days which is equal to 25 percent of the relevant performance period. The performance goals, which must be objective, shall be based upon one or more of the following criteria: (i) earnings before or after taxes (including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); (ii) net income; (iii) operating income; (iv) earnings per Share; (v) book value per Share; (vi) return on stockholders' equity; (vii) expense management; (viii) return on investment before or after the cost of capital; (ix) improvements in capital structure; (x) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product; (xi) maintenance or improvement of profit margins; (xii) stock price; (xiii) market share; (xiv) revenues or sales; (xv) costs; (xvi) cash flow; (xvii) working capital (xviii) changes in net assets (whether or not multiplied by a constant percentage intended to represent the cost of capital) and (xix) return on assets. The foregoing criteria may relate to the Company, one or more of its Subsidiaries or one or more of its divisions, units, minority investments, partnerships, joint ventures, product lines or products or any combination of the foregoing, and may be applied on an absolute basis and/or be relative to one or more peer group companies or indices, or any combination thereof, all as the Committee shall determine. In addition, to the degree consistent with section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto), the performance goals may be calculated without regard to extraordinary items or accounting changes. The maximum amount of a Performance-Based Award during a calendar year to any Participant shall be $5,000,000. The Committee shall determine whether, with respect to a performance period, the applicable performance goals have been met with respect to a given Participant and, if they have, to so certify and ascertain the amount of the applicable Performance-Based Award. No Performance-Based Awards will be paid for such performance period until such certification is made by the Committee. The amount of the Performance-Based Award actually paid to a given Participant may be less than the amount determined by the applicable performance goal formula, at the discretion of the Committee. The amount of the Performance-Based Award determined by the Committee for a performance period shall be paid to the Participant at such time as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion after the end of such performance period; , that a Participant may, if and to the extent permitted by the Committee and consistent with the provisions of section 162(m) of the Code, elect to defer payment of a Performance-Based Award.
provided, however
10. Adjustments Upon Certain Events
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary, the following provisions shall apply to all Awards granted under the Plan:
     (a) . In the event of any change in the outstanding Shares after the Effective Date by reason of any Share dividend or split, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of Shares or other corporate exchange, or any distribution to stockholders of Shares other than regular cash dividends or any transaction similar to the foregoing, the Committee shall make such substitution or adjustment, if any, as it, in its sole discretion and without liability to any person, deems to
Generally
 
be equitable, as to (i) the number or kind of Shares or other securities issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan or pursuant to outstanding Awards, (ii) the maximum number of Shares for which Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted during a calendar year to any Participant (iii) the maximum amount of Other Stock-Based Awards based on the Spread Value and Performance-Based Awards that may be granted during a calendar year to any Participant, (iv) the Option Price or exercise price of any Stock Appreciation Right and/or (v) any other affected terms of such Awards.
     (b) . In the event of a Change in Control, Awards granted under the Plan shall accelerate as follows: (i) each Option and Stock Appreciation Right shall become immediately vested and exercisable; , that if such Awards are not exercised prior to the date of the consummation of the Change in Control, the Committee, in its sole discretion and without liability to any person may provide for (A) the payment of a cash amount in exchange for the cancellation of such Award and/or (B) the issuance of substitute Awards that will substantially preserve the value, rights and benefits of any affected Awards (previously granted hereunder) as of the date of the consummation of the Change in Control; (ii) restrictions on Awards of restricted shares shall lapse; and (iii) Other Stock-Based Awards shall become payable as if targets for the current period were satisfied at 100%.
Change in Control
provided, however
11. No Right to Employment
     The granting of an Award under the Plan shall impose no obligation on the Company or any Subsidiary to continue the employment of a Participant and shall not lessen or affect the Company's or Subsidiary's right to terminate the employment of such Participant.
12. Successors and Assigns
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
13. Nontransferability of Awards
     Except as provided in Section 7(i) of the Plan, an Award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the lifetime of a Participant, an Award shall be exercisable only by such Participant. An Award exercisable after the death of a Participant may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to waive this Section 13 (or any part thereof) to the extent that this Section 13 (or any part thereof) is not required under the rules promulgated under any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Company.
 
14. Amendments or Termination
     The Board or the Committee may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made which, (a) without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, would (except as is provided in Section 10 of the Plan), (1) increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan or change the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted to any Participant, (2) result in any Option being repriced either by lowering the Option Price of any outstanding Option or by canceling an outstanding Option and granting a replacement Option with a lower Option Price, or (b) without the consent of a Participant, would impair any of the rights or obligations under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant under the Plan; , that the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, neither the Committee nor the Board may amend, alter or discontinue the provisions relating to Section 10(b) of the Plan after the occurrence of a Change in Control. Awards issued prior to termination of the Plan shall not be affected by such termination.
provided, however
15. International Participants
     With respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America and who are not (and who are not expected to be) "covered employees" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend the terms of the Plan or Awards with respect to such Participants in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law.
16. Choice of Law
     The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
17. Effectiveness of the Plan
     If the amended and restated Plan is approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting, it will be effective with respect to all awards granted thereafter. If the amended Plan is not so approved by shareholders, all awards granted under the Plan will be made in compliance with the original Plan, without amendment.

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
1. Purpose of the Plan
     The purpose of the Plan is to aid the Company in attracting, retaining and compensating non-employee directors and to enable them to increase their ownership of Shares. The Plan will be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders since it will allow non-employee directors of the Board to have a greater personal financial stake in the Company through the ownership of Shares, in addition to underscoring their common interest with stockholders in increasing the value of the Shares on a long-term basis.
2. Definitions
     The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
     (i) any "Person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes the
 
"Beneficial Owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities.
     (ii) during any period of twenty-four months (not including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new Director (other than a Director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (a), (c) or (d) of this Section, a Director designated by any Person (including the Company) who publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions (including, but not limited to, an actual or threatened proxy contest) which if consummated would constitute a Change in Control or a Director designated by any Person who is the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's securities) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Directors then still in office who either were Directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof.
     (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and after which no Person holds 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company or such surviving entity; or
     (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
 
3. Shares Subject to the Plan
     The total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is 300,000. Against the shares remaining in the Plan, awards granted under the Plan (excluding other stock-based awards granted pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan) count as 1 issued share; whereas, other stock-based awards granted pursuant to Section 7 of the amended Plan (approved as of the 2005 Annual Meeting) count as 2.6 issued shares. The Shares may consist, in whole or in part, of unissued Shares or treasury Shares. The issuance of Awards shall reduce the total number of Shares available under the Plan. Shares which are subject to Awards which terminate or lapse may be granted again under the Plan.
4. Administration
     The Plan shall be administered by the Board, which may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part to any subcommittee thereof. The Board is authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the
 
administration of the Plan. The Board may correct any defect or omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the manner and to the extent the Board deems necessary or desirable. Any decision of the Board in the interpretation and administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned (including, but not limited to, Participants and their beneficiaries or successors).
5. Eligibility
     All Participants shall be eligible to participate under this Plan.
6. Terms and Conditions of Options
     Options granted under the Plan shall be non-qualified stock options for federal income tax purposes, as evidenced by the related Option agreements, and shall be subject to the foregoing and the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Board shall determine:
     (a) . The Option Price per Share shall be determined by the Board, but shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date an Option is granted.
Option Price
     (b) . Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board, but in no event shall an Option be exercisable more than ten years after the date it is granted.
Exercisability
     (c) . Wherever in this Plan or any agreement evidencing an Award a Participant is permitted to pay the exercise price of an Option or taxes relating to the exercise of an Option by delivering Shares, the Participant may, subject to procedures satisfactory to the Board, satisfy such delivery requirement by presenting proof of beneficial ownership of such Shares, in which case the Company shall treat the Option as exercised without further payment and shall withhold such number of Shares from the Shares acquired by the exercise of the Option.
Attestation
     (d) . Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in a related Option agreement, an Option may be exercised for all, or from time to time any part, of the Shares for which it is then exercisable. For purposes of Section 6 of the Plan, the exercise date of an Option shall be the later of the date a notice of exercise is received by the Company and, if applicable, the date payment is received by the Company pursuant to clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) in the following sentence. The purchase price for the Shares as to which an Option is exercised shall be paid to the Company in full at the time of exercise at the election of the Participant in cash, in Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the aggregate Option Price for the Shares being purchased and satisfying such other requirements as may be imposed by the Board, partly in cash and partly in such Shares or through the delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company an amount equal to the aggregate Option Price for the Shares being
Exercise of Options
 
purchased. No Participant shall have any rights to dividends or other rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares subject to an Option until the occurrence of the exercise date (determined as set forth above) and, if applicable, the satisfaction of any other conditions imposed by the Board pursuant to the Plan. Unless the vesting of an Option is otherwise accelerated pursuant to Section 7(e), 7(f) or 7(g), the unvested portion of the Option will terminate upon the Participant's termination of employment for any reason.
     (e) . If a Participant's service with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates by reason of death after the first anniversary of the date on which an Option is granted, the unexercised portion of such Option shall immediately vest in full and may thereafter be exercised during the shorter of the remaining term of the Option or five years after the date of death.
Exercisability Upon Termination of Service by Death
     (f) . If a Participant's service with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates by reason of Disability or Retirement after the first anniversary of the date on which an Option is granted, the unexercised vested portion of such Option may thereafter be exercised during the shorter of the remaining term of the Option or five years after the date of such termination of service; provided, however, that if a Participant dies within a period of five years after such termination of service, the unexercised portion of the Option shall immediately vest in full and may thereafter be exercised, during the shorter of the remaining term of the Option or the period that is the longer of five years after the Date of such termination of service or one year after the date of death.
Exercisability Upon Termination of Service by Disability or Retirement
     (g) . If a Participant's service with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates by reason of Disability or Retirement prior to the first anniversary of the date on which an Option is granted (as described above), then, a pro rata portion of such Option shall immediately vest in full and may be exercised thereafter, during the shorter of (A) the remaining term of such Option or (B) five years after the date of such termination of service, for a prorated number of Shares (rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares), equal to the number of Shares subject to such Option multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days the Participant served on the Board subsequent to the date on which such Option was granted and the denominator of which is 365. The portion of such Option which is not so exercisable shall terminate as of the date of Disability or Retirement. If a Participant's service with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, the unexercised vested portion of such Option shall terminate thirty days following such termination of service.
Effect of Other Termination of Service
     (h) . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(h), an Option shall not be transferable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and during the lifetime of a Participant an
Nontransferability of Stock Options
 
Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant. An Option exercisable after the death of a Participant or a transferee pursuant to the following sentence may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant or such transferee. The Board may, in its discretion, authorize all or a portion of the Options previously granted or to be granted to a Participant to be on terms which permit irrevocable transfer for no consideration by such Participant to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, of the Participant, trusts for the exclusive benefit of these persons, and any other entity owned solely by these persons ("Eligible Transferees"), provided that (x) the Option agreement pursuant to which such Options are granted must be approved by the Board, and must expressly provide for transferability in a manner consistent with this Section and (y) subsequent transfers of transferred Options shall be prohibited except those in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 6(h). The Board may, in its discretion, amend the definition of Eligible Transferees to conform to the coverage rules of Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933 or any comparable Form from time to time in effect. Following transfer, any such Options shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer. The events of termination of service of Sections 6(e), 6(f) and 6(g) hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Participant, following which the Options shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods specified, in Sections 6(e), 6(f) and 6(g). The Board may delegate to a committee consisting of employees of the Company the authority to authorize transfers, establish terms and conditions upon which transfers may be made and establish classes of Options eligible to transfer options, as well as to make other determinations with respect to option transfers.
7. Other Stock-Based Awards
     The Board, in its sole discretion, may grant Awards of Shares, Awards of restricted Shares and Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on the Fair Market Value of, Shares ("Other Stock-Based Awards"). Such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be in such form, and dependent on such conditions, as the Board shall determine, including, without limitation, the right to receive one or more Shares (or the equivalent cash value of such Shares) upon the completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event and/or the attainment of performance objectives. Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted alone or in addition to any other Awards granted under the Plan. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall determine to whom and when Other Stock-Based Awards will be made; the number of Shares to be awarded under (or otherwise related to) such Other Stock-Based Awards; whether such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be settled in cash, Shares or a combination of cash and Shares; and all other terms and conditions of such Awards (including, without limitation, the vesting provisions thereof).
 
8. Adjustments Upon Certain Events
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary, the following provisions shall apply to all Awards granted under the Plan:
     (a) . In the event of any change in the outstanding Shares after the Effective Date by reason of any Share dividend or split, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of Shares or other corporate exchange, or any distribution to stockholders of Shares other than regular cash dividends or any transaction similar to the foregoing, the Board in its sole discretion and without liability to any person may make such substitution or adjustment, if any, as it deems to be equitable, as to the number or kind of Shares or other securities issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan or pursuant to outstanding Awards, the Option Price and/or any other affected terms of such Awards.
Generally
     (b) . Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, (A) all restrictions on Shares of restricted stock shall lapse and all Options shall vest and become exercisable and (B) the Board may, but shall not be obligated to, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award in consideration for the cancellation of such Award which, in the case of Options, shall equal the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to such Options over the aggregate Option Price of such Options.
Change in Control
9. No Right to Awards.
     No Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards. The terms and conditions of Awards and the Board's determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not be the same with respect to each Participant (whether or not such Participants are similarly situated).
10. Successors and Assigns
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
11. Amendments or Termination
     The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made which, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, would (except as is provided in Section 8 of the Plan), increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan, result in any Option being repriced either by lowering the Option Price of any outstanding Option or by canceling an outstanding Option and granting a replacement Option with a lower
 
Option Price, or (b) without the consent of a Participant, would impair any of the rights or obligations under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant under the Plan; , that the Board may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws.
provided, however
12. Nontransferability of Awards
     Except as provided in Section 6(h) of the Plan, an Award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the lifetime of a Participant, an Award shall be exercisable only by such Participant. An Award exercisable after the death of a Participant may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Board, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to waive this Section 12 (or any part thereof) to the extent that this Section 12 (or any part thereof) is not required under the rules promulgated under any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Company.
13. Choice of Law
     The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
14. Effectiveness of the Plan
     If the amended Plan is approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting, it will be effective with respect to all awards granted thereafter. If the amended Plan is not so approved by shareholders, all awards granted under the Plan will be made in compliance with the original Plan, without amendment.


