FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20070228162657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you: (i) changes to the positions held by certain of our current executive officers and our principal accounting officer; and (ii) actions taken by our Compensation and Benefits Committee with respect to our 2007 executive compensation program for our executive officers.
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Executive Officers and Principal Accounting Officer
Effective March 1, 2007, the following individuals will undertake the following change in position with the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
A copy of the Company's Press Release announcing these changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Executive Compensation Program
On February 22, 2007, our Compensation and Benefits Committee (the "Committee") took a number of actions in support of our executive compensation program. This program is designed to:
 
 
 
By achieving these objectives the Committee believes that this program will support the execution of the Company's strategy and, in that way, continue to create shareholder value.
2007 Annual Cash Incentive Plan
The actions taken by the Committee include the approval of our 2007 Annual Cash Incentive Plan, which is awarded under the D&B Covered Employee Cash Incentive Plan (the "CIP"), as last approved by shareholders in 2006. This plan is intended to provide incentives to certain team members, including executive officers, in the form of cash award payments. Payments are based on performance against predetermined annual measures that were set by the Committee after a detailed review by the Board of Directors of the Company's 2007 business plan.
The Company's executive officers were designated by the Committee as participants in the CIP. Under the CIP, the Committee established a maximum annual cash incentive opportunity of eight-tenths of one percent of the Company's 2007 earnings before income taxes for the Chief Executive Officer and five-tenths of one percent of the Company's 2007 earnings before income taxes for each of the other executive officers of the Company. Actual annual cash incentive payouts to the Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers of the Company may be less than these maximums.
In determining incentive payouts under this plan, the Committee will consider: (i) the Company's overall performance; and (ii) an adjustment for an individual's achievement toward their respective team and individual goals and an assessment of their demonstrated leadership
 
Table of Contents
competencies. The Committee also utilizes a Company Scorecard, as further described below, when considering total incentive payouts.
With respect to Company performance, the Committee considers performance against four measures or goals weighted as follows: 30% to Company-wide core revenue growth; 30% to growth in diluted earnings per share ("EPS") and total operating income; 10% to customer satisfaction (as established by the Company's Voice of the Customer Survey); and 30% to our Strategy Execution goal that measures progress toward driving top line growth and improved customer value. In considering such performance metrics, the Committee may exclude the impact of non-core gains and charges or extraordinary items. A target level of performance has been established for each performance goal, which will result in a full incentive payout being earned if the target for the measure is achieved. Achievement below the target will result in a smaller or no incentive payout for that measure and achievement above the target will yield a larger incentive payout. The potential range of incentive payout for each performance goal is from 0% to 200%; however, the aggregate incentive payout for all performance goals may not exceed the maximum annual cash incentive opportunity generated by the pre-tax earnings formula set forth above.
The Company performance metric as applied to each individual will be further adjusted based on the executive's achievement of team and individual goals and assessed demonstration of leadership competencies. Such adjustment may range from 0% to 200% times the Company performance component; provided, however, that in no instance will such adjustment result in an individual receiving an incentive in excess of the maximum annual cash incentive opportunity generated by the pre-tax earnings formula.
In exceptional cases, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may apply additional positive or negative adjustments to payouts to individual executive officers, including the Chairman and CEO. In no instance, however, will such adjustments exceed the maximum annual cash incentive opportunity generated by the pre-tax earnings formula.
To ensure that total cash incentive payments are aligned with overall Company results, performance will also be reviewed against the criteria established by the Company's Scorecard for 2007 that was approved by the Committee. The Company Scorecard is based on three performance criteria: first, Company-wide 2007 core revenue growth; second, 2007 growth in EPS; and third, a principles-based assessment by the Committee of the Company's overall performance. Upon review of performance against these criteria, the Committee may increase or decrease the size of the total incentive pool to ensure alignment with overall Company results. In no instance will the Company Scorecard exceed the maximum annual cash incentive for the Chairman and CEO and other executive officers of the Company as determined by the pre-tax earnings formula.
2007 Performance-based Restricted Stock Opportunity
To the cash component of our executive compensation program we also add an equity component. Where cash is tied to the achievement of short-term results, equity is directly linked to the creation of increased shareholder value over the longer term. Under our long-term incentive program, 50% of the total value of the executive's equity compensation is in the form of a maximum performance-based restricted stock opportunity with the remaining 50% in the form of non-qualified stock options.
 
Table of Contents
The performance-based restricted stock opportunity reinforces our pay for performance objective in that any actual award of restricted stock must be earned based on attainment of the same performance goals that are used in the target annual cash incentive plan. The goals and process described above will also be used at the conclusion of 2007 to determine actual restricted stock grants relative to the maximum 2007 performance-based restricted stock opportunity provided to the Chairman & CEO and other executive officers. However, unlike the annual cash incentive plan, the performance-based restricted stock opportunity is a maximum opportunity, not a target opportunity. If, for example, the executive officer's actual cash incentive expressed as a percent of his or her target cash incentive opportunity is 125%, then the performance-based restricted stock award would be capped at 100% since the restricted stock opportunity is a maximum and there is no additional upside.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
DATE: February 28, 2007
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
D&B Announces Executive Appointments to Drive
Implementation of Strategy
 
 
 
 
 
D&B today announced executive appointments to drive the implementation of the Company's long-term strategy. These appointments are effective March 1.
Short Hills, N.J.  February 28, 2007 
is promoted to the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, reporting to Steve Alesio, D&B's Chairman and CEO. Sara joined D&B in August 2001 as Chief Financial Officer. Since then, she has assumed additional executive assignments, while retaining her CFO role. Sara has been instrumental in helping lead the Company to consistently deliver on its strong financial commitments to shareholders. In January 2006, she added responsibility as PresidentInternational and in September 2006, she relinquished that role and then became President  U.S. Prior to joining D&B, Sara had an 18-year career with Procter & Gamble, where she served in a number of executive positions in finance and general management, both domestically and overseas.
Sara Mathew
In her new role as President and COO, Sara will focus on driving the Company's U.S. business and , who joined D&B in August 2006 as President  International, will now report to Sara.
Jim Howland
 
"Sara has been a partner in driving the transformation of D&B over the past 5 years. I am confident in her ability to lead our Company operations, enabling me to continue to focus on our strategic plans," said Steve Alesio, Chairman and CEO of D&B. "Jim Howland is a seasoned general manager with a strong record of business transformation. We will continue to leverage his extensive experience to help drive our international business."
is promoted to CFO, reporting to the CEO. Tasos joined D&B in March 2005 to lead the Company's global finance operations and began serving as Principal Accounting Officer in May 2005. In his two years with D&B, Tasos has taken on increased financial leadership responsibility. He has had accountability for the financial operations supporting the Company's U.S. and International businesses. He has also had corporate finance responsibility, including accounting, financial reporting, audit and controls. Tasos joined D&B with more than 15 years of experience in general management and global finance operations, including a role as Group Vice President of a division at Schering-Plough. Tasos previously served as Vice President of Finance, North America at Pharmacia Corporation and held senior leadership roles in finance, operations and marketing at Bristol-Myers Squibb, Sandoz Corporation and Rhone-Poulenc Rorer.
Anastasios (Tasos) Konidaris
is promoted to General Counsel, reporting to the CEO. Jeff joined D&B in September 2003 as Deputy General Counsel and assumed responsibility as lead counsel on the Company's M&A and international partnership initiatives. Since joining D&B, Jeff has taken on increasing responsibility for running the day-to-day operations of the Company's Legal Department. Jeff joined D&B with extensive experience in M&A, corporate governance and compliance and litigation management. He served as Corporate Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary for Covance, Inc.  a global drug development company, which he helped take public as part of the spin-off from Corning, Incorporated. Jeff was also Of Counsel at Hale and Dorr LLP.
Jeffrey Hurwitz
 
, the Company's General Counsel since 2002, assumes the role of Leader  Global Reengineering, reporting to the CEO. In this role, David will increase his focus on driving the sustainability of D&B's flexible business model to fund growth-creating investments year after year. He will lead the execution of the Company's multi-year reengineering program designed to significantly reduce its business complexity. David joined D&B in 1999 as corporate secretary, where he led the separation of Moody's Corporation and the launch of the new D&B as an independent public company. David later led the Company's European legal affairs, where he realigned the delivery of legal support to drive the Company's international business strategy. Assuming the role of General Counsel in 2002, David drove the Company's legal, governance and compliance strategy and led the resolution of most of its legacy tax matters.
David Lewinter
"The appointments we're announcing today provide further evidence of our ability to develop bench strength, a key component of our future success," continued Alesio. "Sara, Jim, Tasos, Jeff and David have proven track records and their experience will drive consistency in our business and sustainability in performance," Alesio added.
"I'm confident that with these executive appointments, as well as the strength of our entire Global Leadership Team, we will continue to deliver on our commitments and create increasing value for our shareholders," Alesio concluded.
 
 
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence
for 165 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 110 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight
Quality Process, which transforms the enormous amount of data D&B collects daily into decision-ready insight. Through the D&B Worldwide Network  an unrivaled alliance of D&B and leading business information providers around the world  customers gain access to the world's largest and highest quality global commercial business information database.
D&B's customers are many of the world's largest and most successful enterprises as well as mid-size companies and entrepreneurial start-ups. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; D&B E-Business Solutions
TM
to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries; and D&B Supply Management Solutions
TM
to generate ongoing savings through supplier consolidation, and to protect their businesses from supply chain disruption and serious financial, operational and regulatory risk. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
 


