FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20071219164922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you that: (i) we have entered into an amendment to our employment agreement with Steven W. Alesio, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; (ii) Sara Mathew, our President and Chief Operating Officer, has been appointed to our Board of Directors effective January 1, 2008; (iii) certain of our executive officers will assume new responsibilities within the Company effective January 1, 2008; and (iv) certain of our executive officers have received an increase in their annual compensation.
 
Table of Contents
 
A copy of Amendment No. 2 to the Employment Agreement with Steven W. Alesio is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
A copy of the Company's press release with respect to this appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the Company's related press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: December 19, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 ("Amendment No. 2") is made to the Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2004, between Steven W. Alesio ("Executive") and The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (the "Company"), as amended by Amendment No. 1, effective June 29, 2007 (such Employment Agreement, as so amended, being referred to herein as the "Agreement"). The effective date of this Amendment No. 2 is December 13, 2007.
WHEREAS, the Executive is currently employed by the Company as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer;
WHEREAS, the Employment Term under the Agreement is scheduled to end on December 31, 2007;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to continue to employ the Executive and the Executive desires to accept such continued employment on the terms and conditions of the Agreement, as amended by this Amendment No. 2.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:
1. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Amendment No. 2 shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement.
2. The first sentence of Section 1 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
"Except for earlier termination as provided in Section 8 hereof, Executive shall be employed by the company for a term commencing on January 1, 2005 (the "Commencement Date") and ending on December 31, 2010 (the "Employment Term") on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement."
3. A new Section 5b. shall be added to the Agreement, to read as follows:
"b. . The Company agrees that the definition of "Retirement" under the Company's Stock Incentive Plan, as in effect on December 13, 2007, shall apply to all equity grants made to the Executive during the Employment Term."
Retirement Provisions
4. Section 8b.(ii)(B) of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
"(B) receive, subject to Executive's continued compliance with the provisions of Section 9 and 10 and execution and delivery of a release substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of the Base Salary and the target Annual Bonus, in each case in effect immediately prior to such termination, payable in a lump sum as soon as practicable after such termination;"
 
5. A new Section 18 shall be added to the Agreement, to read as follows:
 
6. . After the signing of this Amendment No. 2, any reference to the Agreement or this Amendment No. 2 shall be interpreted to be a reference to the Agreement as amended by this Amendment No. 2. Any ambiguities or inconsistencies between this Amendment No. 2 and the Agreement shall be decided in favor of the language contained in this Amendment No. 2.
Construction
7. Executive acknowledges he has been advised to consult with an attorney before executing this Amendment No. 2 and that Executive has been advised by an attorney or has knowingly waived the right to do so.
8. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive and the Company, by its duly authorized agent, have hereunder executed this Amendment No. 2.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
D&B Announces Sara Mathew, Company President and Chief Operating Officer, elected to Board of Directors of D&B
D&B today announced that , the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, has been elected to the board of directors of D&B effective January 1, 2008.
Short Hills, N.J.  December 18, 2007 
Sara Mathew
"Sara has been a partner in driving the transformation of D&B over the past 6 years," said Steve Alesio, Chairman and CEO of D&B. "She has been instrumental in leading D&B to consistently deliver on our strong financial commitments to shareholders and integral in driving our early progress against our strategic growth plan," Alesio continued. "Sara's strategic thought leadership and results focus drives the Board's confidence in her ability to contribute more broadly to D&B's long-term success."
Sara joined D&B in August 2001 as Chief Financial Officer and as a member of the Company's Global Leadership team. Since then, Sara has assumed additional executive assignments, while retaining her CFO role. In January 2006, she added responsibility as President  International. In September 2006, she then became President  U.S. In February 2007, Sara was promoted to the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, relinquishing her role as CFO. Prior to joining D&B, Sara had an 18-year career with Procter & Gamble, where she served in a number of executive positions in finance and general management, both domestically and overseas.
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence(R) for over 165 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 115 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight(R) Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides customers with four solution sets, which meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions(TM) to mitigate credit risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions(TM) to increase revenue from new and existing customers; D&B E-Business Solutions(TM) to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries; and D&B Supply Management Solutions(TM) to increase cash by generating ongoing savings from our customers' suppliers and by protecting our customers from serious financial, operational and regulatory risk. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
D&B Announces Executive Appointments to Drive Growth
 
 
 
D&B today announced executive appointments to drive the implementation of the Company's long-term strategy. These appointments are effective January 1, 2008.
Short Hills, N.J.  December 19, 2007 
is promoted to President  U.S. Customer Segments. Jim was most recently the Company's Chief Marketing Officer and Leader  Global Solutions. Under his leadership, RMS  D&B's largest solution set  has become a growth driver for the Company. Specifically, Jim led the creation of the Company's subscription pricing plan, the primary driver of growth in the RMS segment. He also led the development and launch of DNBi, the Company's web-based subscription service and flagship platform, which uses innovation to bring customers greater value. Jim joined D&B in December 2001, following senior marketing roles at Prudential's E-Business Group and First USA Bank.
Jim Burke
is promoted to President  Global Solutions. Charlie was most recently Senior Vice President, Small Business Marketing. In this role, Charlie has driven significant progress in advancing the Company's internet strategy, leading its fast-growing Hoover's business and completing strategic acquisitions to enhance D&B's internet capabilities. Charlie joined D&B in September 2002 as Vice President  Strategy & Business Development, where he was responsible for developing and executing strategic plans in support of the Company's Blueprint for Growth Strategy. Charlie's background includes senior leadership roles at Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, Ernst & Young, CSC Index and the Boston Consulting Group.
Charlie Gottdiener
In these roles, Jim and Charlie will assume responsibility for co-leading the Company's U.S. P&L.
currently Chief Information Officer, will assume additional responsibility for leading the Company's data strategy and operations. Byron joined D&B in July 2005 as Chief Information Officer and has since developed the Company's new multi-horizon Technology strategy. Byron led the evolution of the Company's technology framework to fuel its long-term strategy and the creation of a flexible and customer-focused platform environment for its DNBi solution. Byron brought to D&B 17 years of strategic technology planning experience, including senior leadership roles at NorthStar Systems International, Inc. and Merrill Lynch.
Byron Vielehr
Jim, Charlie and Byron will report to , the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer.
Sara Mathew
"The appointments we're announcing today provide further evidence of our ability to develop our talent, a key component of our future success," said Steve Alesio, Chairman and CEO of D&B. "We'll leverage Jim's strengths to continue the growth momentum in our U.S. Business, Charlie's proven expertise to develop our growth plans, and Byron's leadership to leverage our technology framework to underpin our data strategy," Alesio continued.
The Company also announced that , currently President  D&B International has made a personal decision to leave D&B in 2008 after a period of transition.
Jim Howland
"With these appointments, Sara will partner more closely with me to advance our strategic plans. She'll also shift her focus to build on the good progress we've made in International to implement an infrastructure to drive sustainable growth in this business," added Alesio. "I'm confident that with these executive appointments, as well as the strength of our entire Global Leadership Team, we will continue to deliver on our commitments and create increasing value for our shareholders," Alesio concluded.
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence(R) for over 165 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 115 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight(R) Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides customers with four solution sets, which meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions(TM) to mitigate credit risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions(TM) to increase revenue from new and existing customers; D&B E-Business Solutions(TM) to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries; and D&B Supply Management Solutions(TM) to increase cash by generating ongoing savings from our customers' suppliers and by protecting our customers from serious financial, operational and regulatory risk. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.


