FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20071204165104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you that we have announced: (i) our updated financial guidance for 2008; (ii) our acquisition of AllBusiness.com, Inc.; (iii) a new, two-year, $400 million share repurchase program; and (iv) the declaration of a first quarter 2008 cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
 
Table of Contents
On December 4, 2007, we issued a press release announcing our acquisition of AllBusiness.com, Inc. for approximately $55 million, which we financed through our existing credit facility.
 
On December 4, 2007, we issued a press release updating our financial guidance for 2008 and announcing three initiatives for 2008. Specifically, we announced:
 
 
 
 
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: December 4, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
Short Hills, NJ  December 4, 2007  D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools and commercial insight, today updated its financial guidance for 2008, which calls for continued growth in the year ahead. In addition, the Company announced three initiatives to drive long-term total shareholder return.
"D&B continues to take action to drive higher levels of growth and total shareholder return, in accordance with our business strategy," said Steve Alesio, D&B's Chairman and CEO. "We are pleased with our AllBusiness.com acquisition, which will help us scale our existing Internet business while expanding our ability to meet the needs of professionals doing business on the Web."
"In addition, we feel good about the underlying strength of our business and our strong free cash flow outlook, which is allowing us to continue to return a significant amount of cash to our shareholders."
Acquisition of AllBusiness.com
D&B today announced that it has acquired AllBusiness.com, Inc. for approximately $55 million. AllBusiness is an online media and e-commerce company that leverages its proprietary publishing platform and a broad range of content to help users run their small businesses.
The AllBusiness acquisition directly supports D&B's strategic stake of growing its Internet business. AllBusiness will enhance D&B's Internet capabilities while expanding its advertising-based revenue stream. In addition, the acquisition will provide a significant opportunity to market D&B's product offerings and quality business information to new and existing customers.
AllBusiness generates high-quality traffic by publishing rich content on the Web and leverages its expertise in search engine optimization to generate higher listings of its content on each search inquiry. The company has an existing base of more than 2 million unique monthly visitors, and it monetizes its traffic through online display advertising by national advertisers. The AllBusiness acquisition also provides a platform to generate cross-selling opportunities for D&B products aimed at small business professionals, which is the key online market that D&B serves today.
Given the timing of this acquisition, AllBusiness will have no impact on D&B's 2007 financial guidance. AllBusiness is expected to generate approximately $10 million of incremental revenue for D&B in 2008. D&B will leverage its financially flexible business model to absorb the approximately $0.06 of dilution associated with the acquisition in 2008 without impacting its previously announced 2008 operating income or EPS outlook. The Company expects AllBusiness to be accretive to earnings in 2009.
New Two-Year, $400 Million Share Repurchase Program
D&B announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a new two-year, $400 million share repurchase program, which is in line with the Company's target of returning approximately $200 million per year to shareholders through continued share repurchase. The Company expects its previously approved repurchase program to be completed by January 2008.
 
Cash Dividend Increased
The Company announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share, representing a 20 percent increase in D&B's prior quarter dividend payouts of $0.25 per share. This quarterly cash dividend is payable on March 17, 2008, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 29, 2008. This increase is a reflection on the Company's continuing ability to generate strong free cash flow growth in 2008.
Full Year 2008 Outlook
D&B today provided updated financial guidance for 2008, which includes the acquisition of AllBusiness.com:
 
 
 
 
 
D&B does not provide guidance on a GAAP basis because D&B is unable to predict, with reasonable certainty, the future movement of foreign exchange rates or the future impact of non-core gains and charges, such as restructuring charges and legacy tax matters, which are a component of the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-core gains and charges are uncertain and will depend on several factors, including industry conditions, and could be material to D&B's results computed in accordance with GAAP.
 
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for over 165 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 115 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides customers with four solution sets, which meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; D&B E-Business Solutions
TM
to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries; and D&B Supply Management Solutions
TM
to increase cash by generating ongoing savings from our customers' suppliers and by protecting our customers from serious financial, operational and regulatory risk. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's most recent filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available on its Web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. D&B cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and except as otherwise required by federal securities laws does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 


