FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20070109163518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you that: (i) we have announced our 2007 financial guidance; (ii) we have reaffirmed our 2006 full-year financial guidance; and (iii) we have taken certain actions with respect to our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program.
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 9, 2007, we issued a press release confirming that we expect to meet our most recently disclosed financial guidance for 2006, issued as part of our third quarter 2006 earnings release, based on preliminary 2006 results. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
An integral component of our Blueprint for Growth strategy is creating financial flexibility to fund investments for growth and to create shareholder value.
Through our Financial Flexibility Program, we continually and systematically seek ways to improve our performance in terms of quality and cost. Specifically, we seek to eliminate, standardize, consolidate and automate our business functions. As a part of each program, we have incurred a restructuring charge, which generally consists of, among other things, employee severance and termination costs. We also have incurred transition costs, which generally consist of other costs necessary to accomplish the process changes such as consulting fees, cost of temporary workers, relocation costs and stay bonuses.
Our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program is designed to significantly reduce the complexity of our business, a process that we anticipate continuing over the next several years. Specifically, in 2007, we will begin addressing complexity reduction and create financial flexibility through several initiatives including the following:
 
 
 
 
On an annualized basis, the actions under our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program are expected to create $80 million to $85 million of financial flexibility, of which approximately $60 million to $65 million will be generated in 2007, before any transition costs and restructuring charges and before any reallocation of savings generated by the initiatives. We expect all actions under our 2007 program to be completed by December 2007. To implement these initiatives, we expect to incur transition costs of approximately $13 million to $15 million.
In addition, we expect to incur non-core charges totaling $30 million to $35 million pre-tax, of which $27 million to $32 million relate to severance, approximately $1 million relates to lease termination obligations and approximately $2 million relate to other exit costs in 2007.
Table of Contents
Approximately $42 million to $49 million of these transition costs and restructuring charges are expected to result in cash expenditures. As a result of this re-engineering program, we expect that approximately 400 positions will be eliminated globally.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 9, 2007, we issued a press release announcing our 2007 full-year financial guidance. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
    (d) Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: January 9, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
Short Hills, NJ  January 9, 2007  D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools and commercial insight, today announced its financial guidance for the 2007 full-year.
"D&B has a strong track record of meeting our financial guidance while driving significant levels of total shareholder return," said D&B's Chairman and CEO Steve Alesio. "For 2006, we expect to deliver our sixth consecutive year of strong earnings growth. And, for 2007, we intend to extend our momentum by delivering another year of solid growth and value creation."
2007 Financial Guidance
D&B today issued the following 2007 full-year financial guidance:
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
D&B does not provide guidance on a GAAP basis because D&B is unable to predict, with reasonable certainty, the future movement of foreign exchange rates or the future impact of non-core gains and charges, such as restructuring charges and legacy tax matters, which are a component of the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-core gains and charges are uncertain and will depend on several factors, including industry conditions, and could be material to D&B's results computed in accordance with GAAP.
2007 Financial Flexibility Initiatives
An integral component of D&B's Blueprint for Growth strategy is creating financial flexibility to fund investments for growth and to create shareholder value.
Through our Financial Flexibility Program, D&B continually and systematically seeks ways to improve our performance in terms of quality and cost.
Our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program is designed to significantly reduce the complexity of our business, a process that we anticipate continuing over the next several years. Specifically, in 2007, D&B will begin addressing complexity reduction and create financial flexibility through several initiatives including the following:
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
On an annualized basis, our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program is expected to create $80 million to $85 million of financial flexibility, of which approximately $60 million to $65 million will be generated in 2007, before any transition costs and restructuring charges and before any reallocation of savings generated by the initiatives. To implement these initiatives, D&B expects to incur transition costs of approximately $13 million to $15 million and non-core charges totaling $30 million to $35 million pre-tax. As a result of this reengineering program, we expect that approximately 400 positions will be eliminated globally.
The impact of our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program is reflected in our 2007 guidance. For additional detail concerning our 2007 Financial Flexibility Program, see the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 9, 2007.
 
PRESS RELEASE
2006 Financial Guidance Reaffirmed; Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2006 Earnings Release and Teleconference Dates Announced
D&B today confirmed that it expects to meet its most recently disclosed financial guidance for 2006, issued as part of the company's third quarter 2006 earnings release, based on preliminary 2006 results.
D&B's 2006 fourth quarter and full-year results are scheduled to be released after the financial markets close on Thursday, February 1, 2007. A copy of the earnings release will be posted on D&B's investor relations Web site at http://investor.dnb.com.
An earnings teleconference is scheduled for Friday, February 2, 2007, at 10:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). Steve Alesio, chairman and CEO of D&B, will host the call. Mr. Alesio's remarks will be followed by a question-and-answer period.
A live Webcast of the teleconference can be accessed on D&B's Investor Relations Web site and a replay will be available after the conclusion of the live call.
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence
for 165 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 100 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight
Quality Process, which transforms the enormous amount of data D&B collects daily into decision-ready insight. Through the D&B Worldwide Network  an unrivaled alliance of D&B and leading business information providers around the world  customers gain access to the world's largest and highest quality global commercial business information database.
 
PRESS RELEASE
D&B partners with many of the world's largest and most successful enterprises as well as mid-size companies and entrepreneurial start-ups. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; D&B E-Business Solutions
TM
to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries; and D&B Supply Management Solutions
TM
to generate ongoing savings through supplier consolidation, and to protect their businesses from supply chain disruption and serious financial, operational and regulatory risk. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release, including, in particular, the section titled "2007 Financial Guidance," contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's most recent filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available on its Web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. D&B cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 


