FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20080714161815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you that we have issued a press release: (i) announcing our preliminary financial results for the second quarter period ending June 30, 2008 and (ii) confirming our 2008 full-year financial guidance.
 
On July 14, 2008, we issued a press release announcing our preliminary financial results for the second quarter period ending June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information provided pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
 
On July 14, 2008, we issued a press release confirming our 2008 full-year financial guidance. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: July 14, 2008
 

 
 
 
 
 
Short Hills, NJ  July 14, 2008In conjunction with its 2008 Investor Day event, D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools and commercial insight, today announced preliminary results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008. The Company will issue a press release announcing its final second quarter 2008 results on July 31, 2008.
Preliminary Second Quarter 2008 Results
before non-core gains and charges for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, were $1.15, up 20 percent from $0.96 in the prior year similar period. These results were primarily driven by operating income growth and additionally benefitted from the timing of tax benefits and share repurchases, partially offset by interest costs. On a GAAP basis, diluted earnings per share were $1.51, up 3% from $1.46 in the prior year similar period, due primarily to the resolution of a legacy tax matter with the IRS in the 2007 second quarter, which resulted in a $0.52 per diluted share, net non-core gain.
Diluted earnings per share
See attached Schedule 3 for a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share before non-core gains and charges to earnings per share on a GAAP basis, as well as the definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures that the Company uses to evaluate the business.
for the second quarter of 2008 was $427.7 million, up 10 percent from the prior year similar period before the effect of foreign exchange (up 12 percent after the effect of foreign exchange).
Core and total revenue
Core and total revenue results for the second quarter of 2008 reflect the following by solution set:
 
before non-core gains and charges for the second quarter of 2008 was $107.2 million, up 13 percent from the prior year similar period. On a GAAP basis, operating income for the quarter was $106.0 million, up 18 percent from the prior year similar period.
Operating income
before non-core gains and charges for the second quarter of 2008 was $64.0 million, up 11 percent from the prior year similar period. On a GAAP basis, net income for the quarter was $84.2 million, down 4 percent from the prior year similar period.
Net income
See attached Schedule 3 for additional detail.
for the first six months of 2008, excluding the impact of legacy tax matters, was $211.6 million, up 5 percent from the first six months of 2007.
Free cash flow
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and additions to computer software and other intangibles. Net cash provided by operating activities for the first six months of 2008, excluding the impact of legacy tax matters, was $245.1 million, up 4 percent from the first six months of 2007. On a GAAP basis, net cash provided by operating activities for the first six months of 2008 was $262.3 million, compared to $234.9 million in the prior year similar period.
 
Page 2 of 7
See attached Schedule 4 for additional detail.
during the second quarter of 2008 under the Company's discretionary repurchase program totaled $104.9 million, while repurchases made to offset the dilutive effect of shares issued under employee benefit plans totaled an additional $20.0 million.
Share repurchases
The Company announced that it has increased its discretionary share repurchase target for the full year 2008 to approximately $300 million, up from a previous target of approximately $200 million.
The Company ended the quarter with $245.5 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Preliminary Second Quarter 2008 Segment Results
United States
for the second quarter of 2008 was $319.3 million, up 10 percent from the prior year similar period. These results were primarily driven by continued strength in our core U.S. operation and additionally benefitted from some early renewals in Sales & Marketing as well as strong sales execution.
Core and total revenue
U.S. core and total revenue results for the second quarter of 2008 reflect the following:
 
for the second quarter of 2008 was $105.3 million, up 10 percent from the prior year similar period.
Operating income
 
Page 3 of 7
International
for the second quarter of 2008 was $108.4 million, up 12 percent before the effect of foreign exchange (up 22 percent after the effect of foreign exchange) from the prior year similar period.
Core and total revenue
International core and total revenue results for the second quarter of 2008 reflect the following:
 
for the second quarter of 2008 was $25.5 million, up 18 percent from the prior year similar period.
Operating income
Non-Core Gains and Charges
During the second quarter of 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded:
 
See attached Schedule 3 for additional explanations and details of these charges.
D&B's restructuring charges may be viewed as recurring as they are part of its Financial Flexibility initiatives. In addition to reporting GAAP results, the Company reports results before restructuring charges and other non-core gains and charges because they are not a component of its ongoing income or expenses and
 
Page 4 of 7
may have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on the results of its ongoing underlying business operations. For additional information, see the section titled "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.
Full Year 2008 Outlook Confirmed
D&B confirmed the following full year financial guidance for 2008:
 
D&B does not provide guidance on a GAAP basis because D&B is unable to predict, with reasonable certainty, the future movement of foreign exchange rates or the future impact of non-core gains and charges, such as restructuring charges and legacy tax matters, which are a component of the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-core gains and charges are uncertain and will depend on several factors, including industry conditions, and could be material to D&B's results computed in accordance with GAAP.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
D&B reports non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and the schedules attached. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  How We Manage Our Business" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007, filed February 25, 2008 with the SEC, for a discussion of how the Company defines these measures, why it uses them and why it believes they provide useful information to investors. Additionally, these measures are defined in Schedule 3 attached to this press release.
 
Page 5 of 7
D&B 2008 Investor Day Presentation
As previously announced, D&B will host its 2008 Investor Day event tomorrow, July 15, 2008, at the Time Warner Conference Center in New York City (60 Columbus Circle at 60th Street). The meeting, which is open to investors and analysts, will begin at 7:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) with breakfast and product demonstrations. Presentations will begin at 8:30 a.m. A live audio webcast and presentation slides will be available on D&B's Investor Relations Web site, accessible at http://investor.dnb.com beginning at 8:30 a.m., and a replay of the Investor Day webcast will be posted following the live event.
The Company looks forward to reporting its third quarter 2008 financial results, and hosting its next conference call with analysts and investors, in late October 2008.
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for 167 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 130 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides solution sets that meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit and supplier risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; and D&B Internet Solutions to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
Page 6 of 7
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's most recent filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available on its Web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov.
 
Page 7 of 7
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
N/M - Not Meaningful
See Schedule 3 (Notes to Schedules), which is an integral part of the consolidated statement of operations.
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
N/M - Not Meaningful
See Schedule 3 (Notes to Schedules) for a definition of Non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation of non-core gains and charges.
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1) The following table reconciles International Operating Income included in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2:
 
(4) The following table reconciles Net Income included in Schedule 1 and Schedule 2:
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
The following defines the non-GAAP measures used to evaluate performance:
*For 2008, our non-GAAP measures reflect results on a "Continuing Operations" basis
*Total revenue excluding the revenue of divested businesses is referred to as "core revenue." Core revenue includes the revenue from acquired businesses from the date of acquisition
*Core revenue growth, excluding the effects of foreign exchange, is referred to as "core revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange." We also separately, from time to time, analyze core revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange among two components, "organic core revenue growth" and "core revenue growth from acquisitions"
*Results (such as operating income, operating income growth, operating margin, net income, tax rate and diluted earnings per share) exclude Restructuring Charges (whether recurring or non-recurring) and certain other items that we consider do not reflect our underlying business performance. We refer to these Restructuring Charges and other items as "non-core gains and (charges)"
*Net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures and additions to computer software and other intangibles is referred to as "free cash flow"
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
N/M - Not Meaningful
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


