FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20080507165558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you: (i) that we have issued a press release announcing our financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008 and (ii) actions taken by our Compensation & Benefits Committee with respect to our 2008 executive compensation program for our executive officers.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 7, 2008, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information provided pursuant to this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Executive Compensation Program
Our Compensation & Benefits Committee (the "Committee") has taken a number of actions in support of our executive compensation program. This program is designed to:
 
 
 
By achieving these objectives the Committee believes that our executive compensation program will support the execution of the Company's strategy and, in that way, continue to create shareholder value.
2008 Annual Cash Incentive Plan
The actions taken by the Committee include the approval of our 2008 Annual Cash Incentive Plan, which is awarded under the D&B Covered Employee Cash Incentive Plan (the "CIP"), as last approved by shareholders in 2006. This plan is intended to provide incentives to certain team members, including executive officers, in the form of cash award payments. Payments are based on performance against predetermined annual measures that were set by the Committee after a detailed review by the Board of Directors of the Company's 2008 business plan.
The Company's executive officers were designated by the Committee as participants in the CIP. Under the CIP, the Committee established a maximum annual cash incentive opportunity of eight-tenths of one percent of the Company's 2008 earnings before income taxes for the Chief Executive Officer and five-tenths of one percent of the Company's 2008 earnings before income taxes for each of the other executive officers of the Company. Actual annual cash incentive payouts to the Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers of the Company may be less than these maximums.
 
In determining incentive payouts under this plan, the Committee will consider: (i) the Company's overall performance; and (ii) an adjustment for the achievement of individual goals and an assessment of the individual's demonstrated leadership competencies. The Committee also utilizes a Company Scorecard, as further described below, when considering total incentive payouts.
With respect to Company performance, the Committee considers performance against five measures or goals weighted as follows: 25% to Company-wide core revenue growth; 25% to growth in diluted earnings per share ("EPS") and total operating income; 20% to our Customer Satisfaction Index (as measured by the Company's Voice of the Customer Survey); 20% to our Strategy Execution goal that measures progress toward driving top line growth; and 10% to our Winning Culture Index (as measured by our Winning Culture Survey). In considering such performance metrics, the Committee may exclude the impact of non-core gains and charges or extraordinary items. A target level of performance has been established for each performance goal, which will result in a full incentive payout being earned if the target for the measure is achieved. Achievement below the target will result in a smaller or no incentive payout for that measure and achievement above the target will yield a larger incentive payout. The potential range of incentive payout for each performance goal is from 0% to 200%; however, the aggregate incentive payout for all performance goals may not exceed the maximum annual cash incentive opportunity generated by the pre-tax earnings formula set forth above.
The Company performance metric as applied to each individual will be further adjusted based on the executive's achievement of individual goals and assessed demonstration of leadership competencies. Such adjustment may range from 0% to 200% times the Company performance component; provided, however, that in no instance will such adjustment result in an individual receiving an incentive in excess of the maximum annual cash incentive opportunity generated by the pre-tax earnings formula.
In exceptional cases, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may apply additional positive or negative adjustments to payouts to individual executive officers, including the Chairman and CEO. In no instance, however, will such adjustments exceed the maximum annual cash incentive opportunity generated by the pre-tax earnings formula.
To ensure that total cash incentive payments to all participants including the executive officers are aligned with overall Company results, performance will also be reviewed against the criteria established by the Company's Scorecard for 2008 that was approved by the Committee. The Company Scorecard is based on three performance criteria: first, Company-wide 2008 core revenue growth; second, 2008 growth in EPS; and third, a principles-based assessment by the Committee of the Company's overall performance. Upon review of performance against these criteria, the Committee may increase or decrease the size of the total incentive pool to ensure alignment with overall Company results. In no instance will the Company Scorecard exceed the maximum annual cash incentive for the Chairman and CEO and other executive officers of the Company as determined by the pre-tax earnings formula.
2008 Performance-based Restricted Stock Opportunity
To the cash component of our executive compensation program we also add an equity component. Where cash is tied to the achievement of short-term results, equity is directly linked to the creation of increased shareholder value over the longer term. Under our long-term incentive program, 50% of the total value of the executive's equity compensation is in the form of a maximum performance-based restricted stock opportunity with the remaining 50% in the form of non-qualified stock options.
The performance-based restricted stock opportunity reinforces our pay for performance objective in
 
that any actual award of restricted stock must be earned based on attainment of the same performance goals that are used in the target annual cash incentive plan. The goals and process described above will also be used at the conclusion of 2008 to determine actual restricted stock grants relative to the maximum 2008 performance-based restricted stock opportunity provided to the Chairman & CEO and other executive officers. However, unlike the annual cash incentive plan, the performance-based restricted stock opportunity is a maximum opportunity, not a target opportunity. If, for example, the executive officer's actual cash incentive expressed as a percent of his or her target cash incentive opportunity is 125%, then the performance-based restricted stock award would be capped at 100% since the restricted stock opportunity is a maximum and there is no additional upside.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 7, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Short Hills, NJ  May 7, 2008D&B (NYSE: DNB), the leading provider of global business information, tools and commercial insight, today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
First Quarter 2008 Results
before non-core gains and charges for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, were $1.14, up 18 percent from $0.97 in the prior year similar period. On a GAAP basis, diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, were $1.07, up 23 percent from $0.87 in the prior year similar period.
Diluted earnings per share
for the first quarter of 2008 was $414.7 million, up 8 percent from the prior year similar period before the effect of foreign exchange (up 9 percent after the effect of foreign exchange).
Core and total revenue
The Company announced that, effective January 1, 2008, it began reporting its Supply Management Solutions business as part of its Risk Management Solutions business. This is consistent with the Company's overall strategy and also reflects customers' needs to better understand the financial risk of their supply chain.
The Company has reclassified its historical results to reflect this change.
Core and total revenue results for the first quarter of 2008 reflect the following by solution set:
 
 
 
before non-core gains and charges for the first quarter of 2008 was $110.7 million, up 11 percent from the prior year similar period. On a GAAP basis, operating income was $100.3 million, up 19 percent from the prior year similar period. During the first quarter of 2008, the Company also incurred transition costs of $3.2 million compared with $2.9 million incurred in the prior year similar period.
Operating income
before non-core gains and charges for the first quarter of 2008 was $65.3 million, up 10 percent from the prior year similar period. On a GAAP basis, net income for the quarter was $61.2 million, up 16 percent from the prior year similar period.
Net income
See attached Schedule 3 for additional detail.
for the first quarter of 2008, excluding the impact of legacy tax matters, was $106.8 million, up 5 percent from the prior year similar period.
Free cash flow
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and additions to computer software and other intangibles. Net cash provided by operating activities, excluding the impact of legacy tax
 
matters was $124.2 million, up 6 percent from the prior year similar period. On a GAAP basis, net cash provided by operating activities was $126.5 million, compared to $116.7 million in the prior year similar period.
See attached Schedule 4 for additional detail.
during the first quarter of 2008 under the Company's discretionary repurchase program totaled $84.9 million, while repurchases made to offset the dilutive effect of shares issued under employee benefit plans totaled an additional $34.6 million.
Share repurchases
The Company ended the quarter with $215.7 million of cash and cash equivalents.
First Quarter 2008 Segment Results
United States
for the first quarter of 2008 was $321.2 million, up 6 percent from the prior year similar period.
Core and total revenue
U.S. core and total revenue results for the first quarter of 2008 reflect the following:
 
 
 
for the first quarter of 2008 was $118.4 million, up 9 percent from the prior year similar period. The increase was primarily due to improved revenue in the U.S. segment, partially offset by costs associated with acquisitions and investments to enhance the Company's strategic capabilities.
Operating income
 
International
for the first quarter of 2008 was $93.5 million, up 13 percent from the prior year similar period before the effect of foreign exchange (up 22 percent after the effect of foreign exchange).
Core and total revenue
International core and total revenue results for the first quarter of 2008 reflect the following:
 
 
 
Operating income before non-core gains and charges for the first quarter of 2008 was $13.2 million, up 25 percent from the prior year similar period. The increase was primarily due to improved revenue and the net impact of foreign exchange. On a GAAP basis, operating income for the first quarter of 2008 was $13.2 million, up 35 percent from the prior year similar period.
Non-Core Gains and Charges
During the first quarter of 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded:
 
 
See attached Schedule 3 for additional explanations and details of these charges.
 
D&B's restructuring charges may be viewed as recurring as they are part of its Financial Flexibility initiatives. In addition to reporting GAAP results, the Company reports results before restructuring charges and other non-core gains and charges because they are not a component of its ongoing income or expenses and may have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on the results of its ongoing underlying business operations. For additional information, see the section titled "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below.
Full Year 2008 Outlook Confirmed
D&B confirmed the following full year financial guidance for 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
D&B does not provide guidance on a GAAP basis because D&B is unable to predict, with reasonable certainty, the future movement of foreign exchange rates or the future impact of non-core gains and charges, such as restructuring charges and legacy tax matters, which are a component of the most comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-core gains and charges are uncertain and will depend on several factors, including industry conditions, and could be material to D&B's results computed in accordance with GAAP.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
D&B reports non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and the schedules attached. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  How We Manage Our Business" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007,
 
filed February 25, 2008 with the SEC, for a discussion of how the Company defines these measures, why it uses them and why it believes they provide useful information to investors. Additionally, these measures are defined in Schedule 3 attached to this earnings release.
Dividend Declared
D&B announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share. This quarterly cash dividend is payable on June 16, 2008, to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 30, 2008.
First Quarter Teleconference
As previously announced, D&B will review its first quarter 2008 financial results in a conference call with the investment community on Thursday, May 8, 2008, at 10 a.m. ET. Live audio, as well as a replay of the conference call and other related information, will be accessible on D&B's Investor Relations Web site at http://investor.dnb.com.
About D&B
D&B (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for over 166 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 125 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides solution sets that meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit and supplier risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; and D&B Internet Solutions to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release, including, in particular, the section titled "Full Year 2008 Outlook Confirmed," contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's most recent filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available on its Web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. D&B cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and except as otherwise required by federal securities laws does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
N/M - Not Meaningful
See Schedule 3 (Notes to Schedules), which is an integral part of the consolidated statement of operations.
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
N/M - Not Meaningful
See Schedule 3 (Notes to Schedules) for a definition of Non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation of non-core gains and charges.
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
The following defines the non-GAAP measures used to evaluate performance:
*For 2008, our non-GAAP measures reflect results on a "Continuing Operations" basis.
*Total revenue excluding the revenue of divested businesses is referred to as "core revenue." Core revenue includes the revenue from acquired businesses from the date of acquisition.
*Core revenue growth, excluding the effects of foreign exchange, is referred to as "core revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange." We also separately, from time to time, analyze core revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange among two components, "organic core revenue growth" and "core revenue growth from acquisitions."
*Results (such as operating income, operating income growth, operating margin, net income, tax rate and diluted earnings per share) exclude Restructuring Charges (whether recurring or non-recurring) and certain other items that we consider do not reflect our underlying business performance. We refer to these Restructuring Charges and other items as "non-core gains and (charges)."
* Net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures and additions to computer software and other intangibles is referred to as "free cash flow."
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
N/M - Not Meaningful
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
N/M - Not Meaningful
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
AFX - After Effects of Foreign Exchange
BFX - Before Effects of Foreign Exchange
This financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


