FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20090204162751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you that certain of our executive officers have assumed new responsibilities within the Company.
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On February 4, 2009, we issued a press release announcing that certain of our executive officers have assumed new responsibilities within the Company, as follows:
 
 
 
A copy of our press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: February 4, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Short Hills, NJ  February 4, 2009  D&B (NYSE: DNB) today announced leadership changes aimed at sharpening the Company's focus on sales execution and customer value to drive a successful year in 2009. The following changes are effective immediately.
, President and Chief Operating Officer, assumes direct leadership of D&B's US Customer Segments. In this role, Ms. Mathew will leverage her experience with D&B's US businesses to increase sales pipeline and new customer acquisition as well as improve internal processes and execution.
Sara Mathew
President, Integration Solutions, will focus primarily on D&B's Sales & Marketing Solutions business, specifically its short- and long-term strategic customer value propositions and integration growth opportunities. Mr. Vielehr will transition his additional Chief Quality Officer responsibilities to James Burke. From 2005 to 2008, Mr. Vielehr held the role of Chief Information Officer at D&B.
Byron C. Vielehr,
is appointed President, Global Information Services and Chief Quality Officer. In this role, Mr. Burke will be responsible for D&B's global data strategy, investments and operations, which are critical components of D&B's customer value propositions and growth strategy. Most recently, Mr. Burke was President, D&B US Customer Segments.
James P. Burke
"We are pleased with the focus these changes bring to our 2009 plans," said Steve Alesio, Chairman and CEO of D&B. "Byron's strong technical background is an asset as we increase the integration and embeddedness of our Sales & Marketing Solutions with our customers' data platforms. In addition, Jim is highly qualified to lead Global Information Services, the foundation of our value propositions, given his knowledge of our products and customers' needs. And Sara's direct leadership of our US Customer Segments will positively impact our ability to meet our commitment to emerge from 2009 a stronger company," Mr. Alesio concluded.
About
Dun & Bradstreet
(D&B)
Dun & Bradstreet (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for 167 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 140 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides solution sets that meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit and supplier risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; and D&B Internet Solutions
TM
to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 4
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's most recent filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available on its Web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. D&B cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and except as otherwise required by federal securities laws does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Page 4 of 4


