FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20091112195440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you that our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Steven W. Alesio, will retire from the Company effective June 30, 2010 and will be succeeded by Sara Mathew who has been with D&B since 2001 and who has been our President and Chief Operating Officer since 2007. This planned succession will take place with Ms. Mathew assuming CEO responsibilities and maintaining her President title effective January 1, 2010 and then becoming Chairwoman of the Board, effective July 1, 2010. We are also reporting changes to the positions held by certain of our other executive officers.
Table of Contents
D&B announced that its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Steven W. Alesio, notified the Board on November 12, 2009 that he will retire from the Company effective June 30, 2010. Mr. Alesio will be succeeded by Ms. Sara Mathew who has been with D&B since 2001 and has been its President and Chief Operating Officer since 2007.
This planned succession will take place with Ms. Mathew assuming CEO responsibilities and maintaining her President title effective January 1, 2010. Mr. Alesio will continue as Chairman of the Board until June 30, 2010 at which point Ms. Mathew will then become Chairwoman of the Board, effective July 1, 2010. The Company has no immediate plans to fill the chief operating officer position.
Ms. Mathew, 54, was named President and Chief Operating Officer of D&B in February 2007 and has served as a member of D&B's Board of Directors since January 2008. She joined D&B in August 2001 as Chief Financial Officer. In January 2006, she added responsibility as President  International. In September 2006, she then became President  U.S. In February 2007, Ms. Mathew was promoted to the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, relinquishing her role as CFO. Prior to joining D&B, Ms. Mathew had an 18-year career with Procter & Gamble, where she served in a number of executive positions in finance and general management, both domestically and overseas.
The Company also announced the following changes to its executive management team:
 
 
 
The Company's Compensation and Benefits Committee of our Board of Directors is reviewing the compensation arrangements for 2010 for each of Mr. Alesio and Ms. Mathew and we will report any material changes thereto, as appropriate, in a timely manner.
A copy of our press releases dated November 12, 2009 regarding the above changes to our executive management team are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: November 12, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
Short Hills, N.J.  November 12, 2009  D&B (NYSE: DNB), the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, today announced that chairman and chief executive officer Steven W. Alesio will retire from the company, effective June 30, 2010. Alesio will be succeeded by Sara Mathew. Mathew has been with D&B since 2001, and has been its president & chief operating officer since 2007.
This planned succession will take place with Mathew assuming CEO responsibilities and maintaining her president title, effective January 1, 2010. Alesio will continue as chairman of the board until June 30, 2010, at which point Mathew will then become chair of the board, effective July 1, 2010. The company has no immediate plans to fill the chief operating officer position.
"Having been with this great company for nine years now and as CEO for the past five years, I am proud of how the team has consistently created significant value for our shareholders," said Alesio.
"Sara is a seasoned business leader, with a strong financial, strategic and operational background. She has been instrumental in leading our international business to high-growth, and is re-shaping the direction of our north american business. Having worked side by side with her at D&B for over 8 years, I am confident in her ability to lead our company into the future as its next CEO," Alesio concluded.
Said Mathew, "I am looking forward to the opportunity to lead D&B. We are a strong, well-positioned company in a dynamic market, with a clearly defined strategy, a talented leadership team, and immense opportunities before us. By staying focused on driving profitable revenue growth through customer-centric innovation, I am confident we will continue to drive shareholder value in the years ahead."
, 55, was named chief executive officer of D&B January 2005 and chairman in June 2005. Since May 2002, he served as president and chief operating officer as well as a member D&B's board of directors. After joining D&B in January 2001, he held senior leadership positions with responsibility for global marketing, strategy implementation, international, technology and communications. Prior to joining D&B, Alesio spent 19 years in marketing and general management with the American Express Company. In his most recent position with that company, he served as president and general manager of the business services group, a provider of financial products to small businesses in the U.S. In that role, Alesio was a member of the company's policy and planning committee. Alesio received a bachelor's degree from St. Francis College, Pennsylvania, and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School.
Steve W. Alesio
, 54, was named president and chief operating officer of D&B in February 2007, and has served as a member of D&B's board of directors since January 2008. She joined D&B in August 2001 as chief financial officer. In January 2006, she added responsibility as president  international. In September 2006, she then became president  U.S. In February 2007, Sara was promoted to the company's president and chief operating officer, relinquishing her role as CFO. Prior to joining D&B, Sara had an 18-year career with Procter & Gamble, where she served in a number of executive positions in finance and general management, both domestically and overseas.
Sara Mathew
Page 2 of 2

EXHIBIT 99.2
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
Short Hills, N.J.  November 12, 2009  D&B (NYSE: DNB), the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, today announced several leadership changes.
"To put more focus on growth and innovation and our longer term strategy, we are leveraging proven leaders in key roles," said Sara Mathew, D&B's company president & chief operating officer. "Byron, Jim and Charlie have the experience and expertise to drive D&B's future success through growth oriented innovation, as well as a focused long term strategy."
Vielehr has been with D&B since 2005, and has served as D&B's CIO, as well as most recently as president, integration services. In this role, he advanced our integration strategy, as well as our capabilities with our enterprise solutions, an
Byron Vielehr is appointed President, Global Risk & Analytics (RMS)
PRESS RELEASE
integral part of sales & marketing offerings. He will leverage his strong technology and product leadership skills to advance DNBi and make it the "one stop" solution for commercial credit decisioning. He will also focus on delivering new capabilities and products to our customers, with a particular focus on supply management.
Delaney has been with D&B since 2006, in roles of increasing leadership responsibility in the sales and marketing area. He has been instrumental in advancing our Optimizer solution, as well as leading the development of our strategic relationship with Jigsaw. In this role, he will be responsible for leading key data integration and digital marketing capabilities.
Jim Delaney is appointed President, Global Sales & Marketing Solutions (S&MS)
Gottdiener has over six years experience with D&B. Most recently he led the risk management business, and was responsible for the launch of DNBi premium. He has extensive product and strategy experience, including leading D&B's online business strategy. He will be responsible for advancing D&B's long term corporate strategy, including the acquisition and partnership opportunities that further our growth.
Charlie Gottdiener is appointed President, Corporate Development & Chief Strategy Officer
"We are confident that these new appointments, as well as the strength of the rest of our global leadership team, positions us well to take advantage of market opportunities that exist for D&B in 2010 and beyond," Mathew concluded.
 
 
[Page 2 of 2]


